Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on March 30, 2012, or the Prospectus. Overview We deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold over 1,800,000 microinverter units as of March 31, 2012, representing an estimated 44,000 system installations. Our products have been installed in all 50 U.S. states, eight Canadian provinces, France, Italy and the Benelux region and we are rapidly taking market share from traditional central inverter manufacturers. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. A substantial majority of our revenue has been generated by sales within North America. We anticipate that the majority of our 2012 net revenues will continue to come from North America, with the balance from Europe. We continue to experience substantial growth. Our net revenues increased to $42.6 million from $18.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011, reflecting deeper market penetration and broader acceptance of microinverter technology. Despite the growth in net revenues, we incurred net losses of $10.2 million and $9.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, as we continue to invest substantial resources to develop new product offerings, expand our operations into new product markets and geographies, and focus on critical research and development activities required to enhance product quality and innovation. To support these efforts, we expect to increase our workforce which will result in an increase of headcount related expenses, including stock-based compensation. As of March 31, 2012, we had 323 full-time employees, compared to 190 full-time employees at March 31, 2011, an increase of 70%. We expect to incur a net loss for the remainder of 2012. However, we believe the significant investments we are making in our business will allow us to achieve an increasingly efficient operating cost structure as a percentage of net revenues. On April 4, 2012, we consummated our initial public offering (IPO). As a result, the following transactions were recorded in our consolidated financial statements as of April 4, 2012 (the second quarter of 2012): we issued 10,315,151 shares of common stock (including exercise of the full over-allotment by the underwriters of 1,345,454 shares of common stock), at an offering price of $6.00 per share, for gross proceeds of $61.9 million. Certain related parties, who owned convertible preferred and common stock and held convertible notes, purchased 2,500,000 shares of the total amount of shares issued of our common stock at the $6.00 offering price. The net proceeds from the sale of the shares were $54.0 million, after deducting the underwriters discounts and commissions of $3.3 million and other estimated offering costs of $4.6 million; the 22,220,856 outstanding shares of our convertible preferred stock ($93,596,000 carrying value as of March 31, 2012) automatically converted into 25,171,017 shares of common stock; the convertible preferred stock warrant liability ($776,000 as of March 31, 2012) was reclassified to additional paid-in capital and the warrants to purchase 187,243 shares of convertible preferred stock became warrants to purchase 199,458 shares of common stock; the outstanding balance of principal and accrued paid-in-kind interest thereon for the Convertible Notes ($19,819,000 as of March 31, 2012) automatically converted into 3,533,988 shares of common stock at a conversion price equal to the initial public offering price of $6.00 per share; debt issuance costs and debt discounts ($2,819,000 as of March 31, 2012) related to the Convertible Facility were written-off; and 14 Table of Contents we filed an amended and restated certificate of incorporation, which authorized 100,000,000 shares of common stock and 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. However, we have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate net revenues from sales of our microinverter systems, which include microinverter units, an Envoy communications gateway device, and our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. We sell to distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems, driven by supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology, the continual development and introduction of new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, and the diversification and expansion of our revenue base. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs consisting of purchases from our contract manufacturers and other suppliers, warranty, personnel and logistics costs, depreciation and amortization of test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation and amortization of test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and negotiate product pricing on a quarterly basis. In addition, a contract manufacturer also serves as our logistics provider by warehousing and delivering our products in North America and Europe. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the growing demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product costs, geographical mix and seasonality. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, recruiting costs, sales commissions and stock-based compensation. We expect to continue to hire significant numbers of new employees to support our growth. The timing of these additional hires could materially affect our operating expenses, both in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenues, in any particular period. We expect to continue to invest substantial resources to support the growth of our company globally and anticipate that each of the following categories of operating expenses will increase in absolute dollar amounts for the foreseeable future. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses such as salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Research and development employees are engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications and networking and software functionality. Research and development expense also includes third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and other indirect costs. We devote substantial resources in ongoing research and development programs that focus on enhancements to and cost efficiencies in our existing products and timely development of new products that utilize technological innovation to drive down product costs. We intend to continue to invest substantial resources in our research and development efforts because we believe they are essential to maintaining our competitive position. Investments in research and development personnel costs are expected to increase in total dollars for the foreseeable future. 15 Table of Contents Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase the number of our sales and channel support personnel to enable us to increase our market penetration geographically and into new markets by expanding our customer base of distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Historically, all of our sales have been in North America. In the first quarter of 2011 we opened sales offices in Italy and France, and began selling into France, Italy and the Benelux region in the fourth quarter of 2011. We expect to continue to expand our presence within geographic markets in the future. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations, facilities cost, and fees for professional services. Professional services consist of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. We expect to incur additional accounting and legal costs related to compliance with securities and other regulations, as well as additional insurance, investor relations and other costs associated with being a public company. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net includes interest income on invested cash balances and interest expense on amounts outstanding under our credit and convertible note facilities and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discounts and deferred financing costs. Other income (expense), net also includes mark-to-market adjustments to record our preferred stock warrants at fair value, which were issued in conjunction with credit facilities, as well as losses or gains on conversion of non-U.S. dollar transactions into U.S. dollars. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the vast majority of our products to customers in the United States. We anticipate that as we expand the sale of products to customers outside the United States in the future, we will become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place and our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. We have not recorded any U.S. federal or state income tax provision for any of the periods presented because we have experienced operating losses since inception. Due to the history of losses we have generated since inception, we have recorded a full valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations, and if it entails significant judgment, subjectivity and complexity on the part of management in its application. We consider the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue recognition; Inventory valuation; Product warranty; and Stock-based compensation. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies that involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, refer to the Prospectus under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates. 16 Table of Contents Adoption of Recent Accounting Pronouncement See Note 2 to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net revenues $ 42,600 $ 18,069 $ 24,531 Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 increased by 136% compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to the increase in the overall volume of our products shipped. The number of microinverter units sold increased by 137% from approximately 123,000 units in the three months ended March 31, 2011 to approximately 292,000 units in the three months ended March 31, 2012. The overall increase in units sold was attributable primarily to sales of our third generation microinverter, which was introduced during the second quarter of 2011. In addition, the increase in unit sales was driven by deeper penetration of our existing customer base, the addition of new customers, and broader acceptance of our products resulting from, among other factors, investments made in sales and marketing. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 33,293 $ 15,421 $ 17,872 Gross profit 9,307 2,648 6,659 Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 increased primarily due to an increase in the number of microinverter units sold to customers, consistent with the overall increase in net revenues as described above. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to 21.8% in the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to 14.7% for the same period in 2011. This increase in gross profit as a percentage of net revenues was driven by the introduction of our higher-margin third generation microinverter, which has a lower per unit manufacturing cost than our second generation microinverter, primarily due to design enhancements, resulting in a higher level of product integration and improved efficiencies on increased production volume. This increase in gross profit was partially offset by inventory write-downs of $1.6 million related to product transition plans in the three months ended March 31, 2012. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Research and development $ 7,842 $ 5,345 $ 2,497 The increase in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to a $1.6 million increase in personnel-related costs as a result of increases in research and development headcount in the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2011. The increase in personnel reflects our continued investment in the development of existing products, as well as efforts to bring new products to market. In addition, expenditures related to non-recurring engineering costs and the use of outside services to develop our new products increased by $0.5 million and $0.2 million, respectively, as compared to the same period in 2011. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 5,049 $ 3,010 $ 2,039 17 Table of Contents The increase in sales and marketing expenses resulted primarily from increased staffing levels to support higher sales volumes and international expansion. Personnel-related costs increased by $1.7 million as a result of increases in sales and marketing headcount in the three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the same period in 2011. In addition, costs related to the use of outside services contributed an additional $0.2 million. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) General and administrative $ 5,696 $ 3,250 $ 2,446 The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $0.7 million increase in personnel-related costs as a result of increases in general and administrative headcount and a $1.3 million increase in accounting, legal and other professional services incurred to assist us with building an infrastructure to support public company requirements. In addition, depreciation and amortization and facilities costs contributed $0.5 million to the increase in the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (839 ) $ (332 ) $ (507 ) Other expense, net increased primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in interest expense as a result of the increase in average debt outstanding as well as the amortization of debt discounts and debt issuance costs, partially offset by $0.7 million of income resulting from the decrease in the estimated fair value of our preferred stock warrant liability. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2012 2011 (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ (65 ) $ $ (65 ) Provision for income taxes during the three months ended March 31, 2012 relates to estimated taxable income from our operations in international jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Prior to the consummation of our IPO, we funded operations primarily from private placements of convertible preferred stock and convertible debt from which we received net proceeds in excess of $115.2 million. As of March 31, 2012, we had $31.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, which are held primarily in money market accounts, and $15.2 million in working capital. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 Net cash used in operating activities $ (14,071 ) $ (9,007 ) Net cash used in investing activities (4,605 ) (2,318 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (973 ) 1,856 18 Table of Contents Since our inception, we have incurred significant net losses and as of March 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of $99.0 million. We anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses as we continue to scale up our operations to support expansion of our business. We are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. In addition to increased costs incurred as a result of operating as a public company, we expect to continue making significant investments in research and development, and expect sales related and general and administrative expenses to increase as we execute our expansion plans. Our cash flows from operating activities will continue to be affected principally by the extent to which we manage our working capital and hiring of additional personnel to grow our business. Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Net Cash Used in Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in operating activities was $14.1 million primarily resulting from a net loss of $10.2 million, which was partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.1 million related to depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense of $0.9 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts and stock-based compensation expense of $0.7 million. The net change in working capital items was primarily a result of a $14.4 million increase in inventory, $0.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, and a $6.2 million decrease in deferred revenues, offset by a $11.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities, and a $4.3 million decrease in accounts receivable. Inventory purchases increased in anticipation of fulfilling orders for which cash prepayments were received from certain customers in December 2011. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily due to deposits for purchase commitments entered into with a contract manufacturer. Deferred revenues decreased as we shipped products for which prepayments were received in December 2011. Accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities increased primarily due to inventory purchases from contract manufacturers. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, net cash used in operating activities was $9.0 million. The largest component of our cash used during this period related to our net loss of $9.3 million, which included non-cash charges of $0.5 million related to depreciation and amortization and $0.4 million related to stock-based compensation expense. Changes in working capital items used $0.7 million of operating cash flow and consisted of increases in inventory and prepaid and other assets offset by decreases in accounts receivable, accounts payable and other accrued liabilities, and deferred revenue. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities primarily related to capital expenditures to support our growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in investing activities was $4.6 million primarily as a result of purchases of manufacturing test equipment and expenditures on leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures for our new headquarters. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, net cash used in investing activities was $2.3 million and primarily consisted of expenditures for manufacturing test equipment as well as internally developed software. Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $3.3 million in principal repayments of term loans offset by $2.6 million in borrowings from term loans and $0.3 million in payments for direct costs incurred in connection with the IPO. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, net cash provided by financing activities primarily consisted of $2.0 million in borrowings from a term loan. Debt and Convertible Facilities With the exception of the amendment to our Convertible Facility as described below, our debt facilities have not materially changed since December 31, 2011. As of March 31, 2012, we were a party to four debt agreements: (i) the junior secured convertible loan facility, or Convertible Facility, with certain existing preferred stockholders, and the convertible notes, or Convertible Notes, issued under the Convertible Facility, (ii) the loan and security agreement with Horizon Technology Finance Corporation, or Original Term Loan, as amended, and additional draw downs, or Additional Term Loans, under the Original Term Loan, (iii) the equipment financing facility with Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc., or Equipment Financing Facility, and (iv) the revolving line of credit under a loan and security agreement with Bridge Bank, National Association and Comerica Bank, or the Revolving Line of Credit Facility. Each of these debt agreements is described in greater detail in our most recent audited consolidated financial statements and related notes for the year ended December 31, 2011. See the Prospectus for additional information regarding our debt agreements. As of March 31, 2012, we were in compliance with all our debt covenants. 19 Table of Contents On March 27, 2012, the Convertible Facility was amended to provide for the automatic conversion of the principal and accrued paid-in-kind interest under the Convertible Facility into common stock upon consummation of an initial public offering at a conversion price equal to the lesser of $8.8984 or the IPO price. On April 4, 2012, the Convertible Notes and accrued paid-in-kind interest automatically converted into 3,533,988 shares of common stock, based upon the IPO price of $6.00 per share. In addition, the lenders commitment to make available loans of up to $60.0 million under the Convertible Facility terminated pursuant to the terms of the original agreement as a result of the consummation of an initial public offering. Operating and Capital Expenditure Requirements Our future capital requirements may vary materially in the future and will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to, our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities and the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts and other costs necessary to support our growth. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, funds available under our revolving line of credit facility and net proceeds from our IPO received on April 4, 2012 will be adequate to fund our current and long-term debt obligations as well as our planned capital expenditures and operations over the next 12 months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements, such as the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. It em 3.