Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Overview We deliver simple, innovative and reliable energy management solutions that advance the worldwide potential of renewable energy. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Our technology was designed to increase energy production, simplify design and installation, improve system uptime and reliability, reduce fire risk, and provide a platform for intelligent energy management. Since inception, we have shipped over 14 million microinverters representing over 3 gigawatts of solar PV generating capacity, and more than 620,000 Enphase residential and commercial systems have been deployed in over 100 countries. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. Historically, revenue generated from the U.S. market has represented more than 80% of our total revenue. New Products Enphase IQ Microinverter System In September 2016, we announced our Enphase Home Energy Solution with IQ, our next-generation integrated solar, storage and energy management system. The solution features our sixth-generation microinverter system, which supports high-powered 60 and 72-cell solar modules, integrates with upcoming AC modules from LG and Jinko Solar, and we believe offers installers faster and simpler installations, saving on soft costs. We began shipping the Enphase IQ 6 Microinverter System in North America in the first quarter of 2017. The Enphase IQ microinverter is a key component of the Enphase Home Energy Solution, which can also include our Envoy Communications Gateway, Enphase Enlighten, a cloud-based energy management platform, and our Enphase AC Battery. System owners can use Enphase Enlighten to monitor their homes solar generation, energy storage and consumption from any web-enabled device. Enphase Energized AC Modules We have also recently announced Enphase Energized AC Modules with IQ, which utilize our sixth generation microinverters and will be produced through our AC module partnerships with LG and Jinko Solar, among others. We expect Enphase Energized AC Modules to be available in the U.S. in the second quarter of 2017. Enphase AC Battery In the third quarter of 2016, we began shipments of our Enphase AC Battery to distributors in Australia and New Zealand. The Enphase AC Battery is a scalable, modular energy storage system with a 1.2kWh energy capacity. We began shipments to customers in the United States, France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in the fourth quarter of 2016. Operating Expense Reduction Initiatives In the third quarter of 2016, we began implementing restructuring actions to lower operating expenses. The restructuring actions have included reductions in our global workforce, the elimination of certain non-core projects, 19 Table of Contents consolidation of office space at our corporate headquarters and the engagement of management consultants to assist us in making organizational and structural changes to improve operational efficiencies and reduce expenses. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate net revenues from sales of our microinverter systems and related accessories, which in addition to microinverter units can also include the Envoy communications gateway, our Enlighten cloud-based monitoring service, and our AC Battery storage systems. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems and related accessories, supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace by remaining cost competitive, developing and introducing new products that meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, the diversification and expansion of our revenue base, and our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology and differentiates us in the marketplace. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, manufacturing personnel and logistics costs, freight costs, depreciation of test equipment and hosting service costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation of test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We contract with third parties, including one of our contract manufacturers, to serve as our logistics providers by warehousing and delivering our products in the United States, Europe and Asia. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and restructuring expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories other than restructuring expense and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, sales commissions, incentive compensation and stock-based compensation. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and other indirect costs. Research and development employees are primarily engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications, networking and software functionality, and storage. We devote substantial resources to research and development programs that focus on enhancements to, and cost efficiencies in, our existing products and timely development of new products that utilize technological innovation to drive down product costs, improve functionality, and enhance reliability. We intend to continue to invest appropriate resources in our research and development efforts because we believe they are critical to maintaining our competitive position. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. We expect to continue to make the necessary investments to enable us to execute our strategy to increase our market penetration geographically and enter into new markets by expanding our customer base of distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain Central American markets, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia, New Zealand and certain other Asian markets. We expect to continue to expand the geographic reach of our product offerings and explore new sales channels in addressable markets in the future. 20 Table of Contents General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services, which consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Restructuring expense is the net of charges and adjustments resulting from restructuring initiatives that we began implementing in the third quarter of 2016 to improve operational performance and reduce overall operating expense. Costs included in restructuring expense primarily consist of fees paid to management consultants engaged to assist us in making organizational and structural changes to improve operational efficiencies and reduce expenses, severance for workforce reduction actions, non-cash charges related to the disposition of assets and impairment of property and equipment, and the establishment of lease loss reserves. See Note 6, Restructuring for additional information. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net primarily consists of interest expense and commitment fees under our term loans and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of deferred financing costs. Other expense, net also includes gains or losses upon conversion of foreign currency transactions into U.S. dollars. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. Due to the history of losses we have generated in the United States since inception, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of our U.S. and state deferred tax assets will not be realized as of March 31, 2017 . Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net revenues $ 54,751 $ 64,121 $ (9,370 ) (15 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Net revenues decreased by 15% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 due to a decrease in microinverter systems sold and lower average selling prices. We sold 573,000 microinverter units in the three months ended March 31, 2017 versus 611,000 units in the same period in 2016 . Volumes were negatively affected by the unusually wet weather in California, which is a significant market for us. The average revenue per watt of microinverter systems sold declined by approximately 11% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the same period in 2016 . We expect average selling prices for microinverter systems to continue to decline in the future, which may negatively affect net revenues. 21 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 47,703 $ 52,361 $ (4,658 ) (9 )% Gross profit 7,048 11,760 (4,712 ) (40 )% Gross margin 12.9 % 18.3 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Cost of revenues decreased by 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 . The decrease in cost of revenues was primarily attributable to a decrease in the average cost per watt of microinverter systems and slightly lower volume partially offset by the impact of a decrease in the discount factor used in our mark-to-market method of accounting for eligible warranties. Gross margin decreased by 5.4 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 . The primary drivers of the decrease in gross margin were average revenue per watt of our microinverter systems decreasing more than the average cost per watt, the impact of a decrease in the discount factor used in valuing eligible warranties, and the absorption of fixed overhead costs and specialty warranty charges on a lower revenue base. Our ability to reduce product costs and the timing of product cost reductions relative to declines in average selling prices can have a significant impact on our gross margin. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 9,605 $ 13,066 $ (3,461 ) (26 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Research and development expense decreased by 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 . The decrease is due to the implementation our restructuring initiative that eliminated non-core projects resulting in a $2.3 million reduction in research and development personnel related expenses and a $1.2 million reduction in lab parts, product prototypes and professional fees. The amount of research and development expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the differing levels and stages of research and development activity. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 6,458 $ 10,215 $ (3,757 ) (37 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Sales and marketing expense decreased by 37% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 . The decrease is due to the implementation our restructuring initiative that eliminated non-core projects resulting in a $2.6 million reduction in sales and marketing personnel related expenses. Spending on advertising activities and professional services decreased by $0.7 million in the first quarter of 2017 as compared to the first quarter of 2016, and bad debt expense was $0.4 million higher in the three months ended March 31, 2016 than in the current period. 22 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 5,833 $ 7,567 $ (1,734 ) (23 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 General and administrative expense decreased by 23% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the same period in 2016 . The decrease is due to the implementation of our restructuring initiative that eliminated non-core projects resulting in a $1.3 million reduction in general and administrative personnel related expenses, a $0.3 million reduction in professional services and a $0.2 million reduction in depreciation expense as a result of a lower fixed asset base. Restructuring Charges Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ 7,247 $ $ 7,247 N/A Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 We implemented a restructuring plan in 2016 to lower operating expenses that included reductions in our global workforce and the elimination of certain non-core projects. In 2017 we engaged a management consulting firm to assist us in making organizational and structural changes to improve operational efficiencies and reduce expenses. Restructuring charges includes $4.0 million of consulting services, $1.6 million in cash-based severance and related benefits and $1.7 million in charges for asset impairments and lease loss reserves. We expect to incur additional fees for management consulting services in the near-term. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2017 2016 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ (1,079 ) $ 529 $ (1,608 ) (304 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 Other (expense), net was $1.1 million for three months ended March 31, 2017 versus $0.5 million of other income, net, for the same period in 2016. Interest expense increased by $2.0 million due to our term loan, and other income increased by $0.4 million due to higher net gains related to foreign currency exchange and remeasurement. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2017 , we had $30.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $68.2 million . Cash and cash equivalents held in the United States were $24.2 million and consisted primarily of non-interest bearing checking deposits, with the remainder held in various foreign subsidiaries. We consider amounts held outside the U.S. to be accessible and have provided for the estimated U.S. income tax liability associated with our foreign earnings. Although we have taken actions to improve our liquidity and help us achieve profitability, the solar market is volatile, and we are subject to market dynamics that are beyond our control. As disclosed in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, we concluded that substantial doubt exists as to our ability to continue as a going 23 Table of Contents concern within the next year. The accompanying consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2017 are presented on a going concern basis and do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Information about the actions we have taken and are taking to mitigate our liquidity constraints is presented below. Actions we have taken to reduce our operating expenses include a reduction in our global workforce in the third quarter of 2016 and a second reduction in January 2017. We have eliminated certain projects that did not have a near-term return on investment, consolidated office space at our headquarters, divested our services business and engaged a management consulting firm to help us improve operational efficiencies. We expect the cumulative impact of these actions to decrease our ongoing annual operating expenses by approximately 35%. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, we achieved a combined $9.0 million in savings for research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses over the same period in 2016, which was partially offset by increased restructuring charges of $7.2 million. Sources of Liquidity We have taken and are taking actions to improve our liquidity, including raising funds in the capital markets. In 2016, we completed a public offering of 13,000,000 shares of our common stock. Including the subsequent over-allotment, we sold approximately 15 million shares and realized net proceeds of approximately $16.2 million. In December 2016, we entered into an At The Market Issuance Sales Agreement (ATM) under which we could sell shares of our common stock up to a gross aggregate offering price of $17.0 million. We realized the full $17.0 million of gross proceeds available under the ATM during the three months ended March 31, 2017. In January 2017, we completed a private placement of common stock that resulted in gross proceeds of $10.0 million. In July 2016, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the Original Term Loan Agreement) with lenders that are affiliates of Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC (TCP), which has subsequently been amended and modified as discussed below and in Note 7, Debt. Under the agreement, the lenders committed to advance a term loan in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of July 1, 2020. We drew down the $25.0 million term loan commitment at closing. Payments under the original agreement were interest only through June 30, 2017, followed by consecutive equal monthly payments of principal plus accrued interest that were to begin on July 1, 2017 and continue through the maturity date. The Original Term Loan Agreement provides for an interest rate per annum equal to the higher of (i) 10.25% or (ii) LIBOR plus 9.5625%, subject to a 1.0% reduction if we achieve minimum levels of Revenue and EBITDA (each as defined in the Original Term Loan Agreement) for the twelve-consecutive month period ending June 30, 2017. In addition, we paid a commitment fee of 3.3% of the loan amount upon closing and a closing fee of 10.0% of the loan amount is payable in four equal installments at each anniversary of the closing date. We may elect to prepay the loan by incurring a prepayment fee between 1% and 3% of the principal amount of the term loan depending on the timing and circumstances of prepayment. The term loan was secured by a second-priority security interest on substantially all our assets except intellectual property. The Original Term Loan Agreement does not contain any financial covenants, but is subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants including restrictions on creation of liens, dispositions of assets, dividends, mergers, or changing the nature of its business, in each case, subject to certain customary exceptions. In addition, the Term Loan Agreement contains certain customary events of default including, but not limited to, failure to pay interest, principal and fees or other amounts when due, material breach of any representation or warranty, covenant defaults, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, events of bankruptcy and the occurrence of a material adverse change (as defined in the agreement) to our business. The Original Term Loan Agreement offers TCP typical rights and remedies in any event of default, including the ability to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable. We do not expect the lender to declare default under any event, including the material adverse change clause. In 2016 we had a $50.0 million revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) that was entered into on November 7, 2012, as first amended on February 14, 2014. On December 18, 2015, we entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement with Wells Fargo (the Revolver) which extended the maturity date from November 7, 2016 to November 7, 2019 and added an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility by $25.0 million, subject to certain approvals and meeting certain criteria. In February 2017, we amended our loan and security agreement with TCP to provide an additional $25 million in principal (the New Term Loan Agreement). We simultaneously terminated our revolving credit facility with Wells 24 Table of Contents Fargo Bank, N.A., and the combined principal and interest balance of $10.3 million was fully repaid. The new term loan is secured by a first-priority security interest on substantially all our assets except intellectual property and has the same July 1, 2020 maturity date as the original TCP loan, both of which are now interest only until February 2018. The New Term Loan Agreement requires that (i) at all times from the closing date to and including March 31, 2018, we have Unrestricted Cash (as defined in the New Term Loan Agreement) of at least $10.0 million ; (ii) at all times from the closing date to and including March 31, 2018, that the aggregate amount of Consolidated Unrestricted Cash, plus the value of Consolidated Receivables, plus the value of Consolidated Inventory (each as defined in the New Term Loan Agreement) divided by the outstanding principal amount of both term loans, shall equal or exceed 1.5 ; and (iii) at all times from April 1, 2018 and thereafter, that the aggregate amount of Consolidated Unrestricted Cash, plus the value of Consolidated Receivables, plus the value of Consolidated Inventory divided by the outstanding principal amount of both term loans, shall equal or exceed 1.75 . In addition, the New Term Loan Agreement is subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants including restrictions on creation of liens, dispositions of assets, mergers, changing the nature of its business and dividends and other distributions, in each case subject to certain exceptions. The New Term Loan Agreement also contains certain customary events of default including, but not limited to, failure to pay interest, principal and fees or other amounts when due, material breach of any representation or warranty, covenant defaults, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, events of bankruptcy and the occurrence of a material adverse change (as defined in the agreement) to our business. The New Term Loan Agreement offers TCP typical rights and remedies in any event of default, including the ability to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable. We expect to be in compliance with the financial covenants noted above, and we do not expect the lender to declare default under any event, including the material adverse change clause. See Note 7. Debt. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (24,511 ) $ (15,249 ) Net cash used in investing activities (3,466 ) (3,348 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 40,586 3,046 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (418 ) 115 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 12,191 (15,436 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash used in operating activities of $24.5 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $23.3 million offset by non-cash charges of $7.3 million and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.5 million. Non-cash charges included $1.9 million of stock-based compensation, $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $0.1 million provision for doubtful accounts and $1.9 million in asset impairment and restructuring charges. The primary driver of cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was a $15.8 million decrease in accounts payable resulting from timing of vendor payments that led to a decrease in average days payable outstanding of approximately 33%. Also contributing to cash outflows was an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $3.1 million and an increase in inventory of $1.8 million. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was partially offset by a $12.0 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $1.4 million increase in deferred revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in operating activities of $15.2 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $18.8 million and net changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $2.7 million , which was partially offset by non-cash charges of $6.3 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulted from a $4.8 million increase in inventory, a $2.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, a $1.5 million increase in accounts receivable and a $0.9 million decrease in warranty obligations. Cash 25 Table of Contents inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $4.3 million increase in deferred revenue and a $2.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash used in investing activities of $3.5 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in investing activities of $3.3 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash provided by financing activities of $40.6 million consisted of net proceeds from sales of common stock of $26.5 million, which included proceeds from the private placement and ATM offering described above and net proceeds from the term loan of $24.1 million, offset by the repayment of principal on our revolving credit facility of $10.1 million. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash provided by financing activities of $3.0 million was primarily attributable to proceeds from net borrowings under our revolver. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2017 to our contractual commitments as presented in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2016 Form 10-K other than the termination of our revolving credit facility and additional term debt as described in Note 7. Debt. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2017 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2017 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . 26 Table of Contents Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective See Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation , of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1 for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective. 27 Table of Contents