Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following: our expectations as to our future financial performance, including revenue, cost of revenue, expenses, liquidity, cash requirements and our ability to maintain and grow our profitability; the capabilities, performance and competitive advantage of our technology and products and planned changes; timing of new product releases, and the anticipated marketing adoption of our current and future products; our expectations regarding, and our ability to meet, demand for our products; our business strategies, including anticipating trends and operating conditions; growth of and development in markets in which we target; and our expansion into new and existing markets; our performance in operations, including component supply management and manufacturing timelines; our product quality and customer service; our expectations regarding the effects on our business and financial performance of compliance with applicable laws and regulations; the impact of changes to tax incentives and tax laws; our expectations regarding qualification of our products for domestic content credit under U.S. tax laws; our expectations about the number of microinverter units that can be produced per quarter; our expectations regarding macroeconomic events, geopolitical developments, supply chain disruptions and inflationary pressures and their impact on our business operations, financial performance and the markets in which we, our supplier, manufacturers and installers operate; market risks associated with financial instruments and foreign currency exchange rates; and the anticipated benefits and risks relating to acquisitions and investments. Our actual results or experience could differ significantly from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and you should not place undue reliance on these statements, which speak only as of the date that they were made. These cautionary statements should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we may issue in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements after completion of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect later events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are intended to be subject to protection afforded by the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, Enphase Energy, Enphase, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Enphase Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 4 Table of Contents Risk Factors Summary Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. The following is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, as more fully described below in the section titled Risk Factors. This summary should be read in conjunction with the Risk Factors section and should not be relied upon as an exhaustive summary of the material risks facing our business. In addition to this summary, you should consider the information set forth in the Risk Factors section and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before investing in our securities: Risk Related to our Business, Operations and Our Industry The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for solar photovoltaic systems and harm our business. Unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and financial results. If demand for solar energy solutions does not grow or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our business will suffer. The solar industry is highly competitive, and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce products or develop alternative technologies. Our recent and planned expansion into existing and new markets could subject us to additional business, financial and competitive risks. We may fail to capture customers as we design and develop new products, and update existing products. We depend upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers, and our business and operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with these contract manufacturers. We rely primarily on distributors, installers and providers of solar financing to assist in selling our products to customers, and the failure of these customers to perform at the expected level, or at all, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. We depend on limited-source suppliers for key components and products. If we are unable to source these components and products on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our customers. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or if the price of raw materials increases significantly, production time and product costs could increase, which may adversely affect our business. Manufacturing problems could result in delays in product shipments, which would adversely affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation. Challenges relating to supply chain constraints, including with respect to raw materials, semiconductors and integrated circuits, could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. The loss of, or events affecting, one of our major customers could reduce our sales and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products contain manufacturing or software defects, our business and financial results could be harmed. If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 5 Table of Contents Risk Related to our Intellectual Property and Technology We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. We or third parties upon which we rely could be subject to breaches of our information technology systems caused by system security risks, failure of our data protection, cyber-attacks and erroneous or non-malicious actions or failures to act by our employees or others with authorized access to our networks, which could cause significant reputational, legal and financial damages. The software we use in providing system configuration recommendations or potential energy savings estimates to customers relies in part on third-party information that may not be accurate or up-to-date; this may therefore generate inaccurate recommendations or estimates, resulting in a loss of reputation and customer confidence. We are subject to stringent and evolving data privacy and security laws, contractual obligations, information security policies and other obligations governing the use, processing and transfer of personal information and any unauthorized access to, or disclosure or theft of personal information we gather, store or use could harm our reputation and subject us to claims or litigation. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. We may be subject to disruptions or failures in information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Third parties may assert that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, which could divert managements attention, cause us to incur significant costs, and prevent us from selling or using the technology to which such rights relate. Risk Related to Legal Proceedings and Regulations Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations, or new interpretations thereof, in the solar energy sector, by federal or state agencies in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could impair our ability to compete, and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the United States trade environment, including the recent imposition of import tariffs, could adversely affect the amount or timing of our revenue, results of operations or cash flows. Our significant international operations subject us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risk Related to our Financial Condition and Liquidity Our gross profit may fluctuate over time, which could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. We are under continuous pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our gross margins. If we do not forecast demand for our products accurately, we may experience product shortages, delays in product shipment or excess product inventory, any of which will adversely affect our business and financial condition. A drop in the retail price of electricity derived from the utility grid or from alternative energy sources, or a change in utility pricing structures, may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risk Related to our Acquisition Activity As part of growing our business, we have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute or integrate our acquisitions, then our business and operating results could be harmed. Risk Related to our Debt and Equity Securities Our financial results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors. Conversion of our Convertible Notes may dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders or may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 6 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company We are a global energy technology company originally founded in March 2006. We deliver smart, easy-to-use solutions that manage solar generation, storage and communication on one platform. Our intelligent microinverters work with virtually every solar panel made, and when paired with our smart technology, result in one of the industrys best-performing clean energy systems. For the first time in the evolution of our centuries-old grid, people can get paid for the clean energy they produce and share with their communities, helping to build a new energy future that harnesses the sun. This clean, free, abundant source of energy can power our lives and ultimately help greatly reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. As of December 31, 2024, we have shipped approximately 80.0 million microinverters, and approximately 4.7 million Enphase residential and commercial systems have been deployed in more than 160 countries. We design, develop, manufacture and sell home energy solutions that manage energy generation, energy storage, and control and communications on one intelligent platform. We have revolutionized the solar industry by bringing a systems approach to solar technology and by pioneering a semiconductor-based microinverter that converts energy at the individual solar module level and, combined with our proprietary networking and software technologies, provides advanced energy monitoring and control. This is vastly different than a string inverter system using string modules, whether with or without an optimizer, which only converts the energy of the entire array of solar modules from a single high voltage electrical unit and lacks intelligence about the energy producing capacity of the solar array. The Enphase Energy System brings a high technology, networked approach to solar generation plus energy storage, by leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors and cloud-based software technologies. Our integrated approach to energy solutions maximizes a homes energy potential while providing advanced monitoring and remote maintenance capabilities. The Enphase Energy System uses a single technology platform for seamless management of the whole solution, including IQ Microinverters, IQ Batteries, IQ EV Chargers, IQ Combiner (with embedded IQ Gateway), and other hardware. Installers use the Enphase Installer App to rapidly commission system components, and system owners may use the Enlighten cloud-based monitoring services provided through Enphase App to monitor their energy production, consumption, and storage. We have a built-in system redundancy in both photovoltaic (PV) generation and energy storage, eliminating the risk that comes with a single-point of failure. Further, the nature of our cloud-based, monitored system allows for remote firmware and software updates, that allows cost-effective remote maintenance and ongoing utility compliance. We have transitioned from solar only systems to complete energy management solutions, which consist of solar, batteries, load control, electrical vehicle (EV) charging, compatibility with third-party generators, and grid services. This transition has contributed to the rising global interest in the full electrification of homes and businesses through renewable sources of energy. Our Strategy Our objective is to build best-in-class home energy systems and deliver them to homeowners through our installer and distribution partners, enabled by a comprehensive digital platform. Key elements of our strategy include: Best-in-class customer experience. Our value proposition is to deliver products that are productive, reliable, smart, simple and safe, with superior customer service, to enable homeowners storage and energy independence. On the service front, our installer, distributor and module partners are our first line of association with our ultimate customer, the homeowner and business user. Our goals are to partner better with these service providers so that we can provide exceptional, high quality service to homeowners who have installed our products. We are convinced that continued reinforcement of customer experience improvements by providing 24x7 support can be a competitive advantage for us. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 7 Table of Contents Grow market share worldwide. We intend to capitalize on our market leadership in the microinverter category and our momentum with installers and homeowners to expand our market share position in our core markets. In addition, we hope to further increase our market share in the Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America regions. Further, we intend to continue our expansion into new markets, including emerging markets, with new and existing products and local go-to-market capabilities. Expand our product offerings. We distinguish ourselves from other inverter companies with our systems-based and high technology approach, as we continue to invest in research and development to develop all components of our home energy management systems and remain committed to providing our customers and partners with best-in-class power electronics, storage solutions, communications and load control, all managed by a cloud-based home energy management system. Increase power and efficiency and reduce cost per watt. Our engineering team is focused on continuing to increase average power conversion efficiency and alternating current (AC) output power in order to pair with higher rated direct current (DC) modules while reducing costs per watt. Increase storage energy density and reduce installation time and cost per kWh. Our engineering team is focused on increasing the energy density of our battery capacity, quality and reducing installation time and cost per kilowatt hour (kWh) to make solar-plus-storage resilient, sustainable and affordable for the masses. Focus on the homeowner, distributor and installer partners. We are focused on making it easier for our distributors, installers and customers to do business and generating revenue through digitalization of the business-to-business and business-to-customer process of the distributor, installer and customer journey. Our key focus is to expand our digital presence through enhancing our array of tools on our digital platform to keep us continually connected with our installers and homeowners, as well as increasing the use of the online store significantly. Products The Enphase Energy System, powered by IQ Microinverters, IQ Batteries and other products and services, is an integrated solar, storage and energy management offering that enables self-consumption and delivers our core value proposition of yielding more energy, simplifying design and installation, and improving system uptime and reliability. IQ Microinverters. We ship IQ8 series microinverters into 57 countries worldwide. We are also shipping IQ8 Microinverters with peak output power of 480 watts (W) AC for the small-commercial market in North America, and grid-tied applications in South Africa, Mexico, Brazil, India, Thailand, the Philippines, France, Spain, Columbia, Panama, Costa Rica, Vietnam, Malaysia and 13 Caribbean countries. The new IQ8 Microinverters are designed to maximize energy production and can manage a continuous DC current of 14 amperes, supporting higher powered solar modules through increased energy harvesting. Our new IQ8 Microinverter, the IQ8P-3P for the small commercial solar market in North America, enables a peak output power of up to 480 W, supporting small three-phase commercial applications and newer, high-powered solar panels. We now ship the IQ8HC Microinverters, IQ8X Microinverters, IQ8P-3P Commercial Microinverters and IQ Battery 5Ps supplied from our contract manufacturing facilities in the United States with higher domestic content than previous models that, when paired with other U.S.-made solar equipment, are expected to help certain solar projects qualify for the domestic content bonus tax credit under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). The Enphase IQ8 microinverter-based system has been certified by UL, a global safety science leader, to a UL certification that meets the new North American safety and grid interconnection standards for connecting solar inverters, energy storage systems and distributed energy resources to the grid in compliance with IEEE 1547-2018 and IEEE 1547-1 2020. IQ Batteries. Our Enphase IQ Battery storage systems, with usable and scalable capacity of 10.1 kWh and 3.4 kWh for the United States, and 10.5 kWh and 3.5 kWh for Europe and other international countries, are based on our Ensemble OS software, which powers our grid-independent microinverter-based storage systems. We currently ship our Enphase IQ Battery storage systems to customers in the United States, Puerto Rico, Canada, Mexico, Australia, New Zealand, Belgium, Germany, the United Kingdom, Italy, Austria, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Finland, Switzerland, Spain, Portugal, Sweden, Denmark and Greece. Enphase IQ Batteries in Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 8 Table of Contents Europe can be installed with both single-phase and three-phase third-party solar energy inverters, enabling homeowners to upgrade their existing home solar systems with a residential battery storage solution that reduces costs while providing increased self-reliance. Our latest Enphase Energy System features the IQ Battery 5P, IQ8 Microinverters, IQ System Controller 3/3G and IQ Combiner 5/5G, is designed to offer an improved experience for homeowners and installers as a result of more power, resilient wired communication, and an improved commissioning experience. The IQ Battery 5P is modular by design and is designed to deliver 3.84 kW continuous power and 7.68 kW peak power, which allows homeowners to start heavy loads like air conditioners easily during power outages. The IQ Battery 5P is available for customers in Australia, New Zealand, India, the United States, Puerto Rico, Mexico, Canada, the United Kingdom, Italy, France, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Belgium and Romania. The IQ Gateway is embedded in the IQ Combiner, which can be connected to the internet to enable over-the-air updates and connect to the Enphase App monitoring platform. The IQ Gateway and IQ Microinverters enable industry-leading monitoring capabilities at the solar module level, supporting critical insights for ongoing system operations and maintenance for homeowners and small businesses. Our IQ Load Controller for our Enphase IQ Battery storage systems allow homeowners to decide what gets power in their home in the event of a grid outage, with the ability to choose up to four loads. These loads will be on when the grid is present and shed automatically in the event of a grid failure. This product makes installation simpler and saves time for installers. In January 2025, we introduced IQ Battery 5P with FlexPhase, for customers in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The IQ Battery 5P with FlexPhase is an all-in-one AC-coupled system that delivers reliable backup power and supports both single-phase and three-phase applications. EV Chargers. The increasing penetration of EVs has implications for home energy management, as households not only consume significantly more power with an EV, but also have a large battery that can be used for both backup and grid service. Our EV Chargers are compatible with most EVs sold in North America. Customers are able to purchase Enphase-branded EV chargers, which support both J1772 and North American Charging Standard (NACS) connectors with a charging power range between 32 amperes and 64 amperes. Our smart IQ EV Chargers sold in the United States and Canada are Wi-Fi-equipped and include smart control and monitoring capabilities. The IQ EV Charger is designed to seamlessly integrate into our solar and battery system to help homeowners maximize electricity cost savings by charging directly from solar energy. The CS-100 EV Charger, our most powerful EV charger to date providing up to 19.2 kW of continuous power, is available for customers with commercial fleet EVs in the United States. In January 2025, we introduced our newest EV charger, the IQ EV Charger 2, in 14 European markets. The IQ EV Charger 2 is a next-generation smart charger designed to work seamlessly with our solar and battery systems or as a powerful standalone charger. Our team is developing a bi-directional EV charger that is designed to enable vehicle-to-home and vehicle-to-grid capabilities as part of the Enphase Energy System. Home Energy Management. We have introduced the IQ Energy Router family of devices in Germany and Austria to enable the integration of select third-party EV chargers and heat pumps into Enphase solar and battery systems. The IQ Energy Router family of devices monitors and controls energy usage between an Enphase solar and battery system, EV chargers and heat pumps. The devices work in coordination with the Enphase Energy System and deploy artificial intelligence-based solar production forecasting, consumption forecasting, and an optimization engine to maximize self-consumption. IQ PowerPack 1500. In November 2024, we announced the availability of our new portable energy system, the IQ PowerPack 1500 in the United States and Canada. This product is a 1,500 Wh smart, go-anywhere portable energy system that can power most small appliances in the home, at work, or outdoors. It is designed to provide battery backup, helping to ensure essential electronics stay up and running during power outages. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 9 Table of Contents Grid Services. Grid services programs are managed by regional utilities and use energy stored in home batteries to help power communities when it is needed most, like during periods of peak electricity demand. This reduces reliance on costly and polluting power plants for electricity and, in return, provides incentives to homeowners from their own utilities. Incentive programs may serve as a discount on the purchase of an Enphase Energy System with IQ Batteries or as ongoing payments to participating homeowners. We are currently participating in incentive programs across the United States, Canada and Europe. Solargraf. We are now offering our Solargraf platform, our cloud-based solar and battery design, proposal software and permitting services for both residential and commercial customers. Solargraf is offered in the United States, Canada, Brazil, Germany, Austria and the Netherlands for residential customers and in select regions for commercial customers. We also offer a predictive software platform dedicated to simplifying the cleantech service landscape by matching cleantech asset owners to a local and on-demand workforce of service providers. In addition, we offer another software platform designed to provide high quality leads to solar installers, with the objective of increasing lead volumes and conversion rates to help drive down the customer acquisition costs for installers. Customers and Sales We currently offer solutions targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Europe, Australia, New Zealand, India, Brazil, the Philippines, Thailand, South Africa, Central America, the Caribbean and certain Asian countries. We sell primarily to solar distributors who combine our products with others, including solar module products and racking systems, and resell to installers in each target region. In addition to our solar distributors, we sell directly to select large installers, original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and strategic partners. Our OEM customers include solar module manufacturers who integrate our microinverters with their solar module products and resell to both distributors and installers. Strategic partners include a variety of companies, including industrial equipment suppliers and providers of solar financing solutions. We also sell certain products and services to homeowners, primarily in support of our warranty services and legacy product upgrade programs, via our online store. In the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, one customer accounted for approximately 48%, 40% and 37%, respectively, of our net revenues. Our revenue generated from the United States market has represented 70%, 64% and 76% of our net revenues for the annual periods ended on December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Competition The markets for our products are highly competitive and we compete with central and string inverter manufacturers, storage system manufacturers and new technologies that compete with our business. The principal areas in which we compete with other companies include: product performance and features; total cost of ownership; breadth of product line; local sales and distribution capabilities; module compatibility and interoperability; reliability and duration of product warranty; technological expertise; brand recognition; customer service and support; compliance with industry standards and certifications; compliance with current and planned local electrical codes; integration with storage offerings; size and financial stability of operations; size of installed base; and Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 10 Table of Contents local manufacturing and product content. In an installation consisting of a traditional central inverter, the solar PV modules are connected in series strings. In a large installation, there are multiple series strings connected in parallel. The aggregated voltage from each of these strings is then fed into a large central inverter. We believe that traditional string inverters have a number of design and performance challenges limiting innovation and their ability to reduce the cost of solar power systems, including the following: Productivity limits. If solar modules are wired using a traditional central invertera group or string of modules are wired in series, and an entire strings output is limited by the output of the lowest-performing module. Because of its string design, there is a single point of failure risk with the traditional string inverter approach. Reliability issues. Traditional string inverters are the single most common component of solar installations to fail, resulting in system downtime and adversely impacting total energy output. As a result, string inverters typically carry warranties of only 5 to 12 years. Complex design and installation requirements. The string inverter-based solar PV installation requires greater effort on the part of the installer, both in terms of design and on-site labor. String inverter installations require string design and calculations for safe and reliable operation, as well as specialized equipment such as DC combiners, conduits and disconnects. In addition, the use of high-voltage DC requires specialized knowledge and training and safety precautions to install string inverter technology. Safety issues. String inverter solar PV installations have a wide distribution of high-voltage (600 volts to 1,000 volts) DC wiring. If damaged, DC wires can generate sustained electrical arcs, reaching temperatures of more than 5,000F. This creates the risk of fire for solar PV installation owners and injury for installers and maintenance personnel. These challenges of traditional string inverters have a direct impact on the cost and expected return on investment of solar installations to both installers and system owners: Installer. Solar PV installers aim for simple installation design, fast installation times and maximum system performance and predictability. The installation of high-voltage DC string inverter technology, however, requires significant preparation, precautionary safety measures, time-consuming string calculations, extensive design expertise and specialized installation equipment, training and knowledge. Together, these factors significantly increase complexity and cost of installation and limit overall productivity for the installer. System owner. Solar power system owners aim for high energy production, low cost, high reliability, and low maintenance requirements, as well as reduced fire risks. With traditional string inverters, owners often are unable to optimize the size or shape of their solar PV installations due to string design limitations. As such, they experience performance loss from shading and other obstructions, can face frequent system failures and lack the ability to effectively monitor the performance of their solar PV installation. In addition, string inverter installations operate at high-voltage DC, which bears significant fire risks. Further, due to their large size, string inverter installations can affect architectural aesthetics of the house or commercial building. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger than us and may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and customer support resources and may have significantly broader brand recognition, especially in certain markets. In addition, some of our competitors have more resources and experience in developing or acquiring new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these offerings. Competitors in the inverter market include, among others, SolarEdge Technologies, Inc. (SolarEdge), Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., (Huawei), Tesla, Inc. (Tesla), Sungrow Power Supply Co., Ltd., Growatt New Energy Co., Ltd and other companies offering microinverters and/or string inverters with and without solar optimizers. We believe that our microinverter solutions offer significant advantages and competitive differentiation relative to traditional central or string inverter technology, even when supplemented by DC-to-DC optimizers on the roof. Competitors in the storage market include Tesla, SolarEdge, Huawei, BYD, Franklin Solar Battery and other producers of battery cells and integrated storage systems. Competitors in the EV charger market include Wallbox, ChargePoint Holdings, Inc., Tesla, JuiceBox and EVBox, among others. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 11 Table of Contents Manufacturing, Quality Control and Supply Chain Management We utilize a sourcing strategy that emphasizes global procurement of materials and product manufacturing in lower cost regions. We outsource the manufacturing of our products to third-party contract manufacturers. Flex Ltd. and affiliates (Flex), Salcomp Plc. and affiliates (Salcomp), and Sunwoda Electric Co. Ltd. (Sunwoda) to assemble and test our IQ microinverters, IQ Battery storage systems, EV chargers and IQ Gateway products. Prices for such services are agreed to by the parties on a quarterly basis, and we are obligated to purchase manufactured products and raw materials that cannot be resold upon the termination of the corresponding agreement. Flex also provides receiving, kitting, storage, transportation, inventory visibility and other value-added logistics services at locations managed by Flex. In addition, we rely on several unaffiliated companies to supply certain components used in the fabrication of our products. Our relationships with Flex and Salcomp provide us with strategic manufacturing capabilities and flexibility in the United States. We are now shipping IQ Microinverters from our U.S.-based contract manufacturing facilities in South Carolina and Texas, offering several new production lines across the two sites. Moving manufacturing to the United States allows us to take advantage of the benefits of the IRA as well as help us better serve our customers by cutting down delivery times and diversifying our supply chain. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we also began shipping residential and commercial microinverters, and batteries, with higher domestic content from our United States contract manufacturers, which are expected to help certain solar projects qualify for the Domestic Content Bonus Credit. In the fourth quarter of 2024, we implemented a restructuring plan (the 2024 Restructuring Plan) to better align our workforce and cost structure with our business needs, strategic priorities and ongoing commitment to profitable growth, while increasing operational efficiencies and reducing operating costs, which included the plan to cease operations at our contract manufacturing location in Mexico in the first half of 2025. Customer Service We continue to cultivate an organizational focus on customer satisfaction and are committed to providing a best-in-class customer experience. We maintain high levels of customer engagement through our customer support group, Enphase community, and the Enphase App. We continue to provide 24/7 support for installers and Enphase system owners globally across our phone, online chat and email communications channel. We continue to train our customer service agents with a goal of reducing average customer wait times to under two minutes, and we continue to expand our network of field service technicians in the United States, Europe and Australia to provide direct homeowner assistance. Our Net Promoter Score (commonly referred to as NPS) improved to 78% in 2024 from 76% in 2023 as a result of multiple customer service initiatives. Research and Development We plan to continue to devote substantial resources to research and development with the objective of developing new products and systems and increasing the value or reducing the cost of existing products and systems. Our research and development roadmap identifies new product features and defines improvement targets for existing products that enhance the benefit of our energy management solutions to our customers and support our growth plans. We measure the effectiveness of our research and development using metrics that include product cost, performance and reliability, homeowner and installer experience, as well as development cost and performance to schedule. Intellectual Property We operate in an industry in which innovation, investment in new ideas and protection of our intellectual property rights are critical for success. We protect our technology through a variety of means, including through patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements. As of December 31, 2024, we have approximately 406 global patents and 255 pending patent applications. Our patents are expiring on an ongoing basis between the present and approximately 2045, but there is not a material portion of our patent portfolio expiring in the near future. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 12 Table of Contents We have licensed certain technologies for application in hardware and software in our products. Such licenses are generally fully-paid, royalty-free licenses. Given the volume and pace of new patents worldwide, it may become necessary in the future to license intellectual property on terms that are yet unknown to us, and that may be less favorable than licenses in the past. In addition, we license open source software from various third parties for use in hardware and software. Such open source software is licensed under open source licenses, and we take efforts to maintain compliance with such licenses. We continually assess the need for patent protection for those aspects of our technology that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. A majority of our patents relate to DC to AC power conversion, energy storage devices and related energy environments. With respect to proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our microinverter and storage manufacturing processes involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, test equipment designs, algorithms and procedures. We own or have rights to various trademarks and service marks in the United States and in other countries, including Enphase, the Enphase e, IQ, and many other marks. We rely on both registration of our marks as well as common law protection where available. All of our research and development personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection and require our employees to assign to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us. We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our technology or business plans. As part of our overall strategy to protect our intellectual property, we may take legal actions to prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or from otherwise gaining access to our technology. Government Regulations Our business activities are subject to a changing patchwork of laws and regulations that prevail at the federal, state, regional and local levels as well as in foreign jurisdictions. For example, substantially all of our import operations are subject to complex trade and customs laws, regulations and tax requirements such as sanctions orders or tariffs set by governments through mutual agreements or unilateral actions. In addition, countries may from time to time adversely modify or impose additional duties, tariffs or other restrictions on the import or export of our fully manufactured products or the material components needed to make our products. Changes in tax policies or trade regulations, the disallowance of tax deductions on imported merchandise, or the imposition of new tariffs on imported products, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We are also subject to other complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations related to anti-bribery and corruption, antitrust or competition, and data privacy and security, such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation, among others. In addition, our business and operations are currently subject to environmental laws in various jurisdictions around the world, including the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment regulations adopted by the EU. We are also subject to disclosure and related requirements that apply to the presence of conflict minerals in our products or supply chain. We have policies and procedures in place to promote compliance with these laws and regulations. To date, our compliance actions and costs relating to these laws, rules and regulations have not resulted in a material cost or effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. Government regulations are subject to change, and accordingly we are unable to assess the possible effect of compliance with future requirements or whether our compliance with existing regulations will materially impact our business in the future. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 13 Table of Contents Government Incentives U.S. federal, state and local government bodies, as well as non-U.S. government bodies provide supportive policies and incentives to owners, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar energy and battery storage systems to promote the use of these resources in the form of rebates, tax credits, lower VAT rate and other financial incentives, such as system performance payments, payments for renewable energy credits associated with renewable energy generation and exclusion of solar energy systems from property tax assessments. The market for ongrid rooftop solar applications, where solar power, possibly coupled with battery storage, is used to supplement a customers electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, often depends in large part on the availability and size of these government-issued subsidies and economic incentives, which help to catalyze customer acceptance of solar energy as an alternative to utility-provisioned power. The modifications to, or disallowance of, government subsidies or economic incentives could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Among other government-established incentives, net energy metering (NEM) and related policies have supported the growth of on-grid rooftop solar and storage products, and changes to such policies may significantly reduce demand for electricity from our solar and storage service offerings. NEM tariffs provide customers with compensation for exporting excess solar generation to the electrical grid. In August 2022, the investment tax credit (ITC) was extended and a new advanced manufacturing production tax credit (AMPTC) was created, to incentivize clean energy component sourcing and production, including for the production of microinverters. This included a 10% ITC adder for solar system components that are manufactured with a minimum threshold of domestic content. The IRA provides an AMPTC of 11 cents per alternating current watt for microinverters, which has favorably impacted our results of operations in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. The AMPTC for microinverters decreases by 25% each year beginning in 2030 through the end of 2032. Under the IRA, the ITC was also extended until 2032 to allow a qualifying homeowner to deduct 30% of the cost of installing residential solar and battery systems from their U.S. federal income taxes, thereby returning a material portion of the systems purchase price to homeowners. Under the terms of the IRAs extension, the ITC for residential solar systems will remain at 30% through the end of 2032, reduce to 26% for 2033, reduce to 22% for 2034, and further reduce to 0% after the end of 2034, unless it is extended before that time. We believe the enactment of the IRA is favorable to our overall business. In December 2022, the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) approved a NEM policy, called Net Energy Metering 3.0 (NEM 3.0), which went into effect starting April 15, 2023. The new policy substantially reduces the compensation that solar customers can earn by selling excess solar energy to the electric grid. The average hourly export rate in California under NEM 3.0 is approximately $0.05/kWh to $0.08/kWh compared to the prior average of $0.25/kWh to $0.35/kWh under Net Energy Metering 2.0 (NEM 2.0). In November 2023, the CPUC also adopted changes to its Virtual NEM and NEM Aggregation programs that prohibit multi-meter commercial or agricultural property owners from netting solar energy generated at or adjacent to those properties against import charges recorded on the meters at the property, except for residential account holders in a multi-family residential property. Both of these policy changes in California reduced demand for solar PV systems in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 and may continue to do so. However, the reduction in export compensation under NEM 3.0, coupled with rising utility rates, may encourage deployment of battery energy storage with solar PV systems and mitigate some of the demand reductions. Seasonality Historically, the majority of our revenue are from the North American and European regions which experience higher sales of our products in the second, third and fourth quarters and have been affected by seasonal customer demand trends, including weather patterns and construction cycles. The first quarter historically has had softer customer demand in our industry, due to these same factors. Although these seasonal factors are common in the solar sector, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Environment and Climate Change We have understood the climate change threat from the beginning and have been creating clean energy technologies needed to directly combat it, protect our environment and enable sustainable development. We recognize our ability to do so rests on our capacity to understand, anticipate and successfully navigate various types of climate risk. Our strategy is advancing solutions to meet any number of climate risk mitigation opportunities solar energy equipment, battery storage, EV charging, smart load management and integration with grid modernization efforts. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 14 Table of Contents We align our risk assessment and climate strategy with the recommendations of the Taskforce for Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), as all existing and emerging climate risk disclosure regulations are modeled on this framework. We issued our fourth TCFD aligned Environmental, Social and Governance Report in 2024 and plan to follow up with another aligned report in 2025. We believe that sound corporate governance is critical to helping us achieve our goals, including with respect to designing products that address both energy generation and consumption. We continue to evolve a governance framework that exercises appropriate oversight of responsibilities at all levels throughout the company and manages its affairs consistent with high principles of business ethics and advancing a sustainable future for all. Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had 2,781 full-time employees. Of the full-time employees, 1,171 were engaged in sales and marketing, 1,077 in research and development, 263 in general and administration, 159 in manufacturing and operations and 111 in solar system configuration design and permitting services. Of these employees, 1,502 were in India, 830 in the United States, 231 in Europe, 119 in New Zealand, 23 in Australia, 23 in China, 21 in Mexico, 16 in Canada, and 16 in Brazil. In November 2024, we announced the 2024 Restructuring Plan, which includes a reduction of our workforce of full-time employees and contractors by approximately 17 percent, which will continue to be implemented until the first half of 2025. Refer to Note 12. Restructuring and Asset Impairment Charges, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. None of our employees are represented by a labor union; however, our employees in France are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any employment-related work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Culture Supporting our purpose of Advancing a sustainable future for all, all employees are expected to uphold the following core values that drive our culture: Customer First Integrity Innovation Teamwork Quality These core values are represented by how we work together, how we perform and how we all get rewarded. Values are reinforced in new hire training, culture workshops and everyday interactions. Talent Our talent and culture are critical to our success. Our human capital management philosophy and objectives focus on creating a high-performance culture in which our employees deliver, succeed and lead. We achieve our objectives through various employee engagement and talent development efforts. Our employee engagement efforts include our quarterly all-employee town hall meetings, through which we aim to keep our employees well-informed and to increase transparency, and employee engagement events, through which we foster teamwork, networking, and enhance our workplace culture. We have established relationships with top universities worldwide, professional associations and industry groups to build a talent pipeline and established the Enphase Learning Academy to provide employees with regularly scheduled and on demand relevant technical and professional programs. We are committed to promoting and cultivating an inclusive and diverse culture that welcomes and celebrates everyone without bias. In addition, we look to actively engage within our communities to foster and attain social equity. We became a corporate sponsor of the non-profit Women in Cleantech and Sustainability and our Chief Executive Officer signed the CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion pledge. This shows our commitment to advancing diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Compensation Philosophy Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 15 Table of Contents Our compensation philosophy creates the framework for our rewards strategy. We have a pay-for-performance culture that ties compensation to the performance of the individual and our company. We provide competitive compensation programs that focus on the following five key elements: Pay-for-performance: Reward and recognize leading contributors and high potential employees by paying market competitive total direct compensation, which includes base salary, quarterly bonus or commission, and stock-based compensation External market-based research: Pay levels that are competitive with respect to the labor markets and industries in which we compete for talent Internal equity: Maintaining internally consistent and non-discriminatory pay and pay practices Fiscal responsibility: Providing programs in line with economic conditions and our companys financial health Legal compliance: Ensure the organization is legally compliant with employee compensation laws in all states and countries in which we operate Health and Wellness We invest in our employees through high-quality benefits and various health and wellness initiatives. Our benefits packages provide a balance of protection along with the flexibility to meet the individual needs of our employees. Our global flexible workplace policy introduced in response to COVID-19 pandemic allows employees in certain countries and locations to work in a remote or hybrid mode as business necessitates. Our focus remains on the safety of our employees and business partners, and we strive to protect the health and well-being of the communities in which we operate, in part, by providing technology to our employees, end-customers and business partners to help them do their best work while remote. We expect these business operating conditions will substantially remain in effect throughout 2025. We will continue to monitor the global workplace practices, and will make further changes to our business operations as may be permitted by federal, state, or local authorities and that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, end-customers, partners, suppliers and stockholders. Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act can be accessed on our Investor Relations website at investor.enphase.com. Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SECs website at www.sec.gov. We make available, free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with the SEC or otherwise furnishing it to the SEC. The contents of our websites are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. See also Forward-Looking Statements in the forepart of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 16 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business, Operations and Our Industry The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for solar PV systems and harm our business. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power, on a standalone basis or paired with energy storage systems, is used to supplement a customers electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government-issued subsidies and economic incentives that vary by geographic market. Because our customers sales of solar power are typically into the on-grid market, the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity may negatively affect the competitiveness of rooftop solar electricity relative to centralized sources of electricity (including from conventional thermal or utility-scale renewable generation) and could harm or halt the growth of the solar electricity industry and our business. National, state and local government bodies in many countries, including the United States, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs (FiTs), NEM tariffs and related policies, rebates, tax credits, tax incentives and others to system owners, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar PV systems and battery energy storage systems to bolster the cost competitiveness of solar electricity in on-grid applications relative to the cost of utility power, and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, have limited funding allocations, that require renewal by the applicable jurisdictional authority, or are being changed by governments due to changing market circumstances or changes to national, state or local energy policy. Further, if the ITC, AMPTC, or any other existing tax credits or incentives are reduced or eliminated as part of futures changes to the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or changes to state law or regulatory reform initiatives by subsequent legislative or executive actions, sales of our products in North America and other markets could be adversely affected. In addition, several European countries, including Germany, Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, have adopted reductions in or ended their NEM or FiT programs. Certain countries have proposed or enacted taxes levied on renewable energy. These and related developments have significantly impacted the solar industry in Europe and may adversely affect the future demand for solar energy solutions in Europe, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Among other government-established incentives, NEM and related policies have supported the growth of on-grid rooftop solar products, and changes to such policies may reduce demand for electricity from our solar service offerings. NEM is a tariffed utility rate program that permits a consumer to sell the excess solar energy that the consumers solar panels produce to the electric utility company at a predetermined price. The most basic type of NEM tariff pays consumers the retail rate for electricity that their solar panels export to the grid, less certain non-bypassable fees paid by the consumer. However, certain states have sought to move away from retail rate NEM crediting for compensating excess solar generation. For example, in December 2022, the CPUC adopted a NEM 3.0 policy, also known as the Net Billing Tariff, that unbundles export compensation from retail rates and instead bases it on a tool called the Avoided Cost Calculator (ACC), which estimates the utility costs that are avoided by exports from distributed generation for each hour of the year. The CPUC did seek to ease the transition for the solar market by adopting small adders to the hourly ACC export values for the first several years of the tariff. Nevertheless, these ACC-based export compensation values are significantly lower than retail rates for most hours of the year and may therefore increase payback periods, and thereby reduce demand, for solar-only systems. Similarly, in November 2023, the CPUC adopted changes to its Virtual NEM and NEM Aggregation programs that prohibit multi-meter commercial or agricultural property owners from netting solar energy generated at or adjacent to those properties against import charges recorded on the meters at the property, except for residential account holders in a multi-family residential property. These types of modifications to NEM policies have impacted and could further harm our business, both in California, where we have derived a significant portion of historical revenues in the United States, and in other state and national jurisdictions, if pursued there. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives (including the ITC) or NEM policies in regions where we focus our sales efforts could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from solar PV systems, which would adversely affect sales of our products. In addition, our ability to successfully penetrate new geographic markets may depend on new countries adopting and maintaining tax credits, tax incentives, NEM policies, or other programs to promote solar electricity and storage, to the extent such incentives or programs are not currently in place. Furthermore, electric utility companies may establish rate structures or interconnection requirements that could be harmful to the solar industry and adversely affect our sales. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 17 Table of Contents Unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions may adversely affect our industry, business and financial results. Our business depends on the overall demand for our solar energy products and on the economic health and willingness of our customers and potential customers to make capital commitments to purchase our products and services. As we have a growing global footprint, we are subject to risk and exposure from the evolving macroeconomic environment, including the effects of increased global inflationary pressures, tariffs and interest rates, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, potential economic slowdowns or recessions, geopolitical pressures and potential regulatory changes through future legislative or executive action, which may cause, and has caused, customers to delay purchasing our products and services or to not purchase at all. In addition, a number of the risks associated with our business, which are disclosed in these risk factors, may increase in likelihood, magnitude or duration, and we may face new risks that we have not yet identified. Unfavorable macroeconomic and market conditions can result and have previously resulted in sustained periods of decreased demand. Macroeconomic and market conditions could be adversely affected by a variety of political, economic or other factors in the United States and international markets, which could, in turn, adversely affect spending levels of installers and end users and could create volatility or deteriorating conditions in the markets in which we operate. Macroeconomic uncertainty or weakness could result in: reduced demand for our products as a result of constraints on capital spending for residential solar energy systems by our customers; increased price competition for our products that may adversely affect revenue, gross margin and profitability; decreased ability to forecast operating results and make decisions about budgeting, planning and future investments; business and financial difficulties faced by our suppliers, distributors or other partners, including impacts to material costs, sales, liquidity levels, ability to continue investing in their businesses, ability to import or export goods, ability to meet development commitments and manufacturing capability; and increased overhead and production costs as a percentage of revenue. Reductions in customer spending in response to unfavorable or uncertain macroeconomic and market conditions, globally or in a particular region where we operate, as well as uncertainty in the regulatory landscape, would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If demand for solar energy solutions does not grow or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our business will suffer. Our IQ Microinverters and IQ Battery storage systems are utilized in solar PV installations, which provide on-site distributed power generation. As a result, our future success depends on continued demand for solar energy solutions and the ability of solar equipment vendors to meet this demand. The solar industry is an evolving industry that has experienced substantial changes over the years, and we cannot be certain that consumers and businesses will adopt solar PV systems as an alternative energy source at levels sufficient to continue to grow our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model under which businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices. The viability and continued growth in demand for solar energy solutions and, in turn, our products, may be impacted by many factors outside of our control, including: market acceptance of solar PV systems based on our product platform; availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development and deployment of solar energy solutions; cost competitiveness, reliability and performance of solar PV systems compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; our ability to timely introduce and complete new designs and timely qualify and certify our products; the extent to which the electric power industry and broader energy industries are deregulated to permit broader adoption of solar electricity generation; Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 18 Table of Contents the cost and availability of key raw materials and components used in the production of solar PV systems; prices of traditional utility-provided energy sources; whether installers, system owners and solar financing providers will adopt our solutions; the ability of prospective system owners to obtain long-term financing for solar PV installations based on our product platform on acceptable terms or at all; levels of investment by end-users of solar energy products, which tend to decrease when economic growth slows; and the emergence, continuance or success of, or increased government support for, other alternative energy generation technologies and products. If demand for solar energy solutions does not grow, demand for our customers products from residential homeowners and commercial businesses will decrease, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business. Further, our success depends on continued demand for solar energy solutions and the ability of solar equipment vendors to meet this demand. Supply chain disruptions, increased interest rates and higher inflation, have caused and may continue to cause various negative effects, including an inability to meet the needs of our existing or potential end customers. If demand for solar energy solutions decreases or does not grow, demand for our customers products as well as demand for our products will decrease, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business. The solar industry is highly competitive, and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce products or develop alternative technologies, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We compete primarily against central and string inverter manufacturers, as well as against new solutions and emerging technologies that directly compete with our business. A number of companies have developed or are developing microinverters and other products that will compete directly with our solutions in the module-level power electronics market. We also compete against manufacturers of energy storage systems and EV chargers for our solutions in these markets. Competitors in the inverter market include, among others, SolarEdge, Huawei, Tesla, Sungrow Power Supply Co., Ltd., Growatt New Energy Co., Ltd and other companies offering string inverters with and without solar optimizers. Competitors in the storage market include Tesla, SolarEdge, Huawei, BYD, Franklin Solar Battery, and other producers of battery cells and integrated storage systems market. Competitors in the EV charger market include Wallbox, ChargePoint, Tesla, JuiceBox and EVBox, among others. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger than we are and may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and customer support resources and may have significantly broader brand recognition, especially in certain markets. In addition, some of our competitors have more resources and experience in developing or acquiring new products and technologies and creating market awareness for these offerings. Further, certain competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than we can and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or that provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive or below-market pricing levels, which could cause us to lose sales or market share or require us to lower prices of our products in order to compete effectively. Suppliers of solar products, particularly solar modules, have experienced eroding prices over the last several years and as a result many have faced margin compression and declining revenues. If we have to reduce our prices, or if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices (ASPs) by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our revenue and gross profit would suffer. Significant developments in alternative technologies, such as advances in other forms of distributed solar PV power generation, storage solutions such as batteries, the widespread use or adoption of fuel cells for residential or commercial properties or improvements in other forms of centralized power production may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Any failure by us to adopt new or enhanced technologies or processes, or to react to changes in existing technologies, could result in product obsolescence, the loss of competitiveness of our products, decreased revenue and a loss of market share to competitors. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 19 Table of Contents We also may face competition from some of our customers or potential customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. Other solar module manufacturers could also develop or acquire competing inverter technology or attempt to develop components that directly perform DC-to-AC conversion in the module itself. Due to the fact that such customers may not seek to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers or potential customers may purchase fewer of our systems or sell products that compete with our systems, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross profit. Our recent and planned expansion into existing and new markets could subject us to additional business, financial and competitive risks. We currently offer solar energy systems targeting the residential and commercial markets throughout the world, and we intend to expand into other international markets. Our success in new geographic and product markets will depend on a number of factors, such as: acceptance of microinverters, batteries and EV chargers in markets in which they have not traditionally been used; our ability to compete in new product markets to which we are not accustomed; availability of government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy solutions; accurate forecasting and effective management of inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; our ability to manage manufacturing capacity and production; willingness of our potential customers to incur a higher upfront capital investment than may be required for competing solutions; timely qualification and certification of new products, and ability to comply with local regulations; our ability to reduce production costs in order to price our products competitively; our customer service capabilities and responsiveness; and timely hiring of skilled employees and the efficient execution of our project plan. Failure to address these new markets successfully, to generate sufficient revenue from these markets to offset associated research and development, marketing, and manufacturing and regulatory costs, or to otherwise effectively anticipate and manage the risks and challenges associated with our potential expansion into new product and geographic markets, could adversely affect our revenue and our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. We may fail to capture customers as we design and develop new products and update existing products. We are pursuing opportunities in energy management and energy storage that are highly competitive markets. We have made investments in our infrastructure, increased our operating costs and forgone other business opportunities in order to seek opportunities in these areas and will continue to do so. Any new product is subject to certain risks, including component sourcing, strategic partner selection and execution, customer acceptance, competition, product differentiation, market timing, challenges relating to economies of scale in component sourcing and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop and grow these or any other new concepts to a point where they will become profitable or generate positive cash flow. If we fail to execute on our plan with respect to new product introductions, or fail to adequately update our legacy products, we may fail to generate revenue in the quantities or timeline projected, thus, having a materially adverse impact on our operating results and financial stability. We continue to develop new generations of our IQ Microinverters, IQ Batteries and EV charging products. Developing new products or next generation products is complex and requires significant preparation, precautionary safety measures, time-consuming string calculations, extensive design expertise and specialized installation equipment, training and knowledge. Together, these factors significantly increase complexity and cost of installation and limit overall productivity for the installer. Our installers may not have sufficient resources or expertise necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect, which could hinder our ability to expand our operations and harm our revenue and operating results. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 20 Table of Contents We depend upon a small number of outside contract manufacturers, and our business and operations could be disrupted if we encounter problems with these contract manufacturers. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities and rely upon a small number of contract manufacturers to build our products. In particular, we outsource the manufacturing of our products to third-party contract manufacturers. Flex, Salcomp and Sunwoda assemble and test our IQ Microinverter, IQ Battery storage systems, EV chargers and IQ Gateway products. Prices for such services are agreed to by the parties on a quarterly basis, and we are obligated to purchase manufactured products and raw materials that cannot be resold upon the termination of the related agreement. As of December 31, 2024, our related purchase obligations (including amounts related to component inventory procured by our primary contract manufacturers on our behalf) were approximately $130.9 million. The timing of purchases in future periods could differ materially from our estimates due to fluctuations in demand requirements related to varying sales levels as well as changes in economic conditions. Flex also provides receiving, kitting, storage, transportation, inventory visibility and other value-added logistics services at locations managed by Flex. In addition, we rely on several unaffiliated companies to supply certain components used in the fabrication of our products. Our reliance on a small number of contract manufacturers makes us vulnerable to possible capacity constraints and reduced control over component availability, delivery schedules, manufacturing yields and costs. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our contract manufacturing partners. Consequently, these manufacturers are not obligated to supply products to us for any period, in any specified quantity or at any certain price. If any of these suppliers reduce or eliminate the supply of the components to us in the future, our revenue, business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely impacted. Further, the revenue that our contract manufacturers generate from our orders may represent a relatively small percentage of their overall revenue. As a result, fulfilling our orders may not be considered a priority in the event of constrained ability to fulfill all of their customer obligations in a timely manner. In addition, some of our products continue to be manufactured outside of the United States. We believe that the location of these facilities outside of the United States increases our supply risk, including the risk of supply interruptions or reductions in manufacturing quality or controls. If any of our contract manufacturers were unable or unwilling to manufacture our products in required volumes and at high quality levels or renew existing terms under supply agreements, we would have to identify, qualify and select acceptable alternative contract manufacturers, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. An alternative contract manufacturer may not be available to us when needed or may not be in a position to satisfy our quality or production requirements on commercially reasonable terms. Any significant interruption in manufacturing would require us to reduce our supply of products to our customers, which in turn would reduce our revenue, harm our relationships with our customers and cause us to forgo potential revenue opportunities. We rely primarily on distributors, installers and providers of solar financing to assist in selling our products to customers, and the failure of these customers to perform at the expected level, or at all, would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of our operations. We sell our solutions primarily through distributors, as well as through direct sales to solar equipment installers and developers of third-party solar finance offerings. We do not have exclusive arrangements with these third parties. As a result, many of these third parties, or customers, also use or market and sell products from our competitors, which may reduce our sales. These customers may generally terminate their relationships with us at any time, or with short notice, and further may fail to devote the resources necessary to sell our products at the prices, in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect, or may focus their marketing and sales efforts on products of our competitors. In addition, participants in the solar industry are becoming increasingly focused on vertical integration of the solar financing and installation process, which may lead to an overall reduction in the number of potential parties who may purchase and install our products. We typically provide our distributors and installers with training and other programs, including accreditations and certifications; however, these programs may not be effective or utilized consistently. Further, newer distributors and installers may require extensive training and may take significant time and resources to achieve productivity. Our distributors and installers may subject us to lawsuits, potential liability and reputational harm if, for example, any were to misrepresent the functionality of our platform or products to customers, fail to perform services to our customers expectations, or violate laws or our policies. In addition, our distributors and installers may utilize our platform to develop products and services that could potentially compete with products and services that we offer Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 21 Table of Contents currently or in the future. Concerns over competitive matters or intellectual property ownership could constrain the growth and development of these relationships or result in the termination of one or more relationships. If we fail to effectively manage and grow our network of distributors and installers, or properly monitor the quality and efficacy of their service delivery, our ability to sell our products and efficiently provide our services may be impacted, and our operating results may be harmed. Our future performance depends on our ability to effectively manage our relationships with our existing customers, as well as to attract additional customers that will be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously distributed our products. Termination of agreements with current customers, failure by customers to perform as expected, bankruptcies of our customers or their installer customers, or failure by us to cultivate new customer relationships, could hinder our ability to expand our operations and harm our revenue and operating results. We depend on limited-source suppliers for key components and products. If we are unable to source these components and products on a timely basis, we will not be able to deliver our products to our customers. We depend on sole-source and limited-source suppliers for key components of our products, such as our ASICs and lithium-ion batteries. Any of the sole-source and limited-source suppliers upon whom we rely could experience quality and reliability issues, stop producing our components, cease operations, face climate-related disruptions, or be acquired by, or enter into exclusive arrangements with, our competitors. We generally do not have long-term supply agreements with our suppliers, and our purchase volumes may currently be too low for us to be considered a priority customer by most of our suppliers. As a result, most of these suppliers could stop selling to us at commercially reasonable prices, or at all. Any such quality or reliability issue, or interruption or delay may force us to seek similar components or products from alternative sources, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, in a timely manner, or at all. Switching suppliers may require that we redesign our products to accommodate new components and may potentially require us to re-qualify our products, which would be costly and time-consuming. Any interruption in the quality or supply of sole-source or limited-source components for our products would adversely affect our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and could result in lost revenue or higher expenses and would harm our business. If we or our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain raw materials in a timely manner or if the price of raw materials increases significantly, production time and product costs could increase, which may adversely affect our business. The manufacturing and packaging processes used by our contract manufacturers depend on raw materials such as copper, aluminum, silicon and petroleum-based products. From time to time, suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. Certain of our suppliers have the ability to pass along to us directly or through our contract manufacturers any increases in the price of raw materials. If the prices of these raw materials rise significantly, we may be unable to pass on the increased cost to our customers. While we may from time to time enter into hedging transactions to reduce our exposure to wide fluctuations in the cost of raw materials, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited. Due to all these factors, our results of operations could be adversely affected if we or our contract manufacturers are unable to obtain adequate supplies of raw materials in a timely manner or at reasonable cost. In addition, from time to time, we or our contract manufacturers may need to reject raw materials that do not meet our specifications, resulting in potential delays or declines in output. Furthermore, problems with our raw materials may give rise to compatibility or performance issues in our products, which could lead to an increase in product warranty claims. Errors or defects may arise from raw materials supplied by third parties that are beyond our detection or control, which could lead to additional product warranty claims that may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 22 Table of Contents Manufacturing problems could result in delays in product shipments, which would adversely affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation. We have in the past and may in the future experience delays, disruptions or quality control problems in our manufacturing operations. Our product development, manufacturing and testing processes are complex and require significant technological and production process expertise. Such processes involve a number of precise steps from design to production. Any change in our processes could cause one or more production errors, requiring a temporary suspension or delay in our production line until the errors can be researched, identified and properly addressed and rectified. This may occur particularly as we introduce new products, modify our engineering and production techniques and expand our capacity. In addition, our failure to maintain appropriate quality assurance processes could result in increased product failures, loss of customers, increased production costs and delays. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A disruption could also occur in one of our contract manufacturers facilities due to any number of reasons, such as equipment failure contaminated materials, process deviations, the effects of climate change and related extreme weather events, or social, geopolitical or health factors, including pandemics or widespread health epidemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic, which could adversely impact manufacturing yields or delay product shipments. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would adversely affect our gross profit, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond the schedules requested, which would negatively affect our revenue, competitive position and reputation. Additionally, manufacturing yields depend on a number of factors, including the stability and manufacturability of the product design, manufacturing improvements gained over cumulative production volumes, and the quality and consistency of component parts. Capacity constraints, raw materials shortages, logistics issues, labor shortages and changes in customer requirements, manufacturing facilities or processes have historically caused, and may in the future cause, reduced manufacturing yields, negatively impacting the gross profit on, and our production capacity for, those products. Moreover, an increase in the rejection and rework rate of products during the quality control process before, during or after manufacture would result in our experiencing lower yields, gross profit and production capacity. Furthermore, counterfeit parts in our supply chain have been and continue to be a concern, since any counterfeit part can be a lower quality product, which may affect our system reliability. The risks of these types of manufacturing problems are further increased during the introduction of new product lines, which has from time to time caused, and may in the future cause, temporary suspension of product lines while problems are addressed or corrected. Since our business is substantially dependent on a limited number of product lines, any prolonged or substantial suspension of an individual product line could result in a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross profit and competitive position as well as our distributor and customer relationships. Challenges relating to supply chain constraints, including with respect to raw materials, semiconductors and integrated circuits, could adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. In times of increased demand, the global supply market for certain raw materials and components, including, in particular, semiconductors, integrated circuits and other electronic components used in some of our products, has experienced significant constraint and disruption. A constrained supply environment could affect component availability, lead times and cost and could increase the likelihood of unexpected cancellations or delays of previously committed supply of key components. To mitigate these risks, we may in the future and have in the past incurred higher costs to secure available inventory, have extended our purchase commitments and placed non-cancellable, advanced orders with or through suppliers, particularly for long lead time components. Our efforts to expand our manufacturing capacity and multi-source and pre-order components may fail to reduce the impact of these adverse supply chain conditions on our business. Despite any mitigation efforts, constrained supply conditions may adversely impact our revenue and results of operations. At the same time, increased costs associated with supply premiums, labor, expediting fees and freight and logistics may adversely impact our gross margin, profitability and ability to reduce the cost to manufacture our products in a manner consistent with prior periods. In the past, the COVID-19 pandemic and regional conflicts and wars has also contributed to and exacerbated the strain on our supply chain, and there can be no assurance that these types of impacts will not continue, or worsen, in the future. Increased supply chain challenges could also result in increased use of cash, engineering design changes and delays in new product introductions, each of which Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 23 Table of Contents could adversely impact our business and financial results. In the event of any persistent supply chain challenges, these challenges would adversely impact our revenue, gross margins and results of operations. The loss of, or events affecting, one of our major customers could reduce our sales and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We sell primarily to solar distributors who combine our products with others, including solar modules products and racking systems, and resell to installers in each target region. In addition to our solar distributors, we sell directly to select large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our customers decisions to purchase our products are influenced by a number of factors outside of our control, including, among others, retail energy prices, the macroeconomic environment, government regulation, incentives and liquidity constraints of solar installers. Although we have agreements with our customers, these agreements generally do not have long-term purchase commitments and are generally terminable by either party after a relatively short notice period. In addition, these customers may decide to no longer use, or to reduce the use of, our products and services for other reasons that may be out of our control. We may also be affected by events impacting our large customers that result in them decreasing their orders with us or impairing their ability to pay for our products, whether due to a decrease in demand from the end markets they serve or the deterioration in the financial condition or bankruptcy of any such customer or the solar installers they resell to, or a significant decrease in their business. During the year ended December 31, 2024, one of our customers filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. We evaluated the carrying amount of a customer intangible asset related to that customer and determined that the carrying amount of the asset as of December 31, 2024 is recoverable. Additionally, net of allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2024, included $6.2 million that relates to the one customer. We regularly monitor and evaluate the credit status of our customers and attempt to adjust sales terms as appropriate, which may not be successful. The loss of, or events affecting, any of our large customers has had from time to time, and could in the future have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products contain manufacturing or software defects, our business and financial results could be harmed. We design and make complex products and they may contain undetected or latent errors or defects. Complex hardware and software systems, such as our products, can often contain undetected errors when first introduced or as new versions are released. In the past, we have experienced latent defects only discovered once the microinverters or batteries are deployed in the field. Changes in our supply chain or the failure of our suppliers to otherwise provide our third-party contract manufacturers with components or materials that meet our specifications could introduce defects into our products. As we grow our product volumes, the chance of manufacturing defects could increase. In addition, new product introductions or design changes made for the purpose of cost reduction, performance improvement or improved reliability could introduce new design defects that may impact the performance and life of our products. Any design or manufacturing defects or other failures of our products to perform as expected could cause us to incur significant service and re-engineering costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and significantly and adversely affect installer and customer satisfaction, market acceptance and our business reputation. Furthermore, if we are unable to correct manufacturing defects or other failures of products in a manner satisfactory to our customers, our results of operations, customer satisfaction and our business reputation could be adversely affected. Since some of our products are electricity-producing devices, it is possible that our systems could result in injury, whether by product malfunctions, defects, improper installation, or other causes. We rely on third party installers to install our products according to our installation guides and with local laws. Any significant installation problems could cause us significant harm, including, the occurrence of significant service costs, diverting the attention of our engineering personnel from product development efforts and adversely affecting installer and customer satisfaction, market acceptance and our business reputation, and could subject us to litigation and regulatory costs. In addition, due to the high energy density of lithium-ion cells, mishandling, inappropriate storage or delivery, non-compliance with safety instructions or field failures can potentially cause a battery cell to rapidly release its stored energy, which may in turn cause a thermal event that can ignite nearby materials, including other lithium-ion cells. As the use of lithium-ion batteries becomes more widespread, these events may occur more often, causing damage to property, injury, lawsuits and adverse publicity, which may adversely affect our reputation, results of operations or financial condition. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 24 Table of Contents If we fail to retain our key personnel or if we fail to attract additional qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated level of growth and our business could suffer. Our future success and ability to implement our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to attract and retain key personnel, and on the continued contributions of members of our senior management team and key personnel in areas such as engineering, marketing and sales, any of whom would be difficult to replace. For example, we are highly dependent on our president and chief executive officer, Badrinarayanan Kothandaraman. Mr. Kothandaraman possesses technical knowledge of our business, operations and strategy, and he has substantial experience and contacts that help us implement our goals, strategy and plan. If we lose his services or if he decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially harmed. All of our employees, including our senior management, are free to terminate their employment relationships with us at any time. Competition for highly skilled executives and employees in the technology industry is intense, and our competitors have targeted individuals in our organization that have desired skills and experience. If we are not able to continue to attract, train and retain our leadership team and our qualified employees necessary for our business, the progress of our product development programs could be hindered, and we could be materially adversely affected. To help attract, retain and motivate our executives and qualified employees, we use stock-based incentive awards, including restricted stock units. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain and motivate our executives and employees could be weakened, which could harm our business and results of operations. Also, if the value of our stock awards increases substantially, this could potentially create substantial personal wealth for our executives and employees and affect our ability to retain our personnel. In addition, any restructuring plans may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain key employees. Additionally, our ability to attract qualified personnel, including senior management and key technical personnel, is critical to the execution of our growth strategy. Competition for qualified senior management personnel and highly skilled individuals with technical expertise is extremely intense, and we face challenges identifying, hiring and retaining qualified personnel in all areas of our business. In addition, integrating new employees into our team could prove disruptive to our operations, require substantial resources and management attention and ultimately prove unsuccessful. Our failure to attract and retain qualified senior management and other key technical personnel could limit or delay our strategic efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Restructuring activities could disrupt our business and adversely affect our results of operations. We have taken steps, including reducing our global workforce, streamlining our operations and internal reorganizations, to increase operational efficiencies and execution, reduce operating costs, and better align our workforce and cost structure with current market condition. We may take similar steps in the future as we seek to realize operating synergies, meet our strategic priorities and profitability objectives, or to reflect more closely changes in our business needs. These changes could be disruptive to our business, including our research and development efforts, and could result in significant expense, including accounting charges for inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Substantial expense or charges resulting from restructuring activities could adversely affect our results of operations and use of cash in those periods in which we undertake such actions. Any failure by management to properly manage growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business has experienced periods of rapid growth, and in the future, we may continue to grow our business rapidly. Growth in our business could place significant demands on our management, operations, systems, accounting, internal controls and financial resources, and it may also negatively impact our ability to retain key personnel. If we experience difficulties in any of these or other areas, we may not be able to expand our business successfully or effectively manage our growth. Any failure by management to manage our growth and to respond to changes in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 25 Table of Contents Our business has been and could continue to be affected by seasonal trends and construction cycles. We have been and could continue to be subject to industry-specific seasonal fluctuations. Historically, the majority of our revenue are from the North American and European regions, which experience higher sales of our products in the second, third and fourth quarters and have been affected by seasonal customer demand trends, including weather patterns and construction cycles. The first quarter historically has had softer customer demand in our industry, due to these same factors. In the United States, customers will sometimes make purchasing decisions towards the end of the year in order to take advantage of tax credits or for budgetary reasons. In addition, construction levels are typically slower in colder and wetter months. In European countries with FiTs, the construction of solar PV systems may be concentrated during the second half of the calendar year, largely due to the annual reduction of the applicable minimum FiT and the fact that the coldest winter months are January through March. Accordingly, our business and quarterly results of operations could be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the future. If we are unsuccessful in continuing to expand our direct-to-consumer sales channel by driving purchases through our website, our business and results of operation could be harmed. Although we primarily sell our solutions and products directly to solar distributors, who resell to installers and integrators, who then in turn integrate our products into complete solar PV installations for residential and commercial system owners, we have recently invested significant resources in our direct-to-consumer sales channel through our website, and our future growth relies, in part, on our ability to attract consumers through this channel. Expanding our direct-to-consumer sales model will require significant expenditures in marketing, software development and infrastructure. Further, the success of direct-to-consumer sales through our website is also subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as federal, state, foreign and provincial regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and e-commerce. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, tariffs, privacy, data protection, pricing, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection and intellectual property. These laws and regulations can be complex, difficult to interpret and may change over time. Continued regulatory limitations and other obstacles interfering with our ability to sell our products directly to consumers could have a negative and material impact our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the expansion of our direct-to-consumer channel could alienate some of our existing distributors and installers and cause a reduction in sales from these third parties. Our existing distributors and installers may perceive themselves to be at a disadvantage based on the direct-to-consumer sales offered through our website. Due to these and other factors, conflicts in our sales channels could arise and cause our existing distributors and installers to divert resources away from the promotion and sale of our products. If we are unable to successfully continue to drive traffic to, and increase sales through, our website, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property and Technology We are dependent on information technology systems, infrastructure and data. We or third parties upon which we rely could be subject to breaches of our information technology systems caused by system security risks, failure of our data protection, cyber-attacks and erroneous or non-malicious actions or failures to act by our employees or others with authorized access to our networks, which could cause significant reputational, legal and financial damages. Like many companies, in the ordinary course of business we process, use transfer, generate, disclose, secure, transmit and store a wide variety of confidential and proprietary information including personal information and other sensitive information relating to our business, products and services. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our business and reputation. Despite our implementation of security measures, our systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, ransomware, supply chain attacks, worms and other malicious software programs or other attacks, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks, unauthorized access, including impersonation of authorized users, social-engineering attacks (including through deep fakes, which may be increasingly more difficult to identify as fake, and phishing attacks), efforts to discover and exploit any security vulnerabilities or securities weaknesses and other similar issues and disruptions. In particular, severe ransomware attacks are becoming increasingly prevalent particularly for companies like ours that interact with critical infrastructure or manufacturing and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, and ability to provide our products or services. Although we make significant efforts to maintain the security, availability, integrity and confidentiality of our information technology and related systems Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 26 Table of Contents and have implemented measures to manage the risk of a security breach or disruption, there can be no assurance that our security efforts and measures will be effective, or that attempted security breaches or disruptions would not be successful or damaging. Remote work has become more common and has increased risks to our information technology and related systems, as more of our employees utilize network connections, computers and devices outside our premises or network, including working at home, while in transit and in public locations. The techniques used in attempted cyber-attacks and intrusions are sophisticated and constantly evolving and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time. We may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Although to date we have not experienced any material breaches of our systems that could have material adverse effect on our business, attacks and intrusions on our systems will continue and we may experience a breach of our systems that compromises sensitive company information or customer data including personal information. In addition, hardware, software, or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Intentional or non-malicious breaches by employees or others may pose a risk that sensitive data, including our intellectual property, trade secrets or personal information of our employees, customers or users, or other business partners may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public, or that risks of loss or misuse of this information could occur. Furthermore, if we experience a significant data security breach, we could be exposed to reputational damage and significant costs, including to rebuild our systems, modify our products and services, defend litigation, respond to government enforcement actions, pay damages or take other remedial steps, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. These risks, as well as the number and frequency of cybersecurity events globally, may also be heightened during times of geopolitical tension or instability. Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. We may also rely on and share information with contractors and third-party providers to conduct our business and provide our products and services. Although such contractors and third-party providers take steps designed to secure data and prevent security incidents, our ability to monitor these third-parties information security practices and potential security incidents is limited, and these third-parties may not have adequate information security measures in place. These third-party providers may experience a significant data security breach, which may also detrimentally affect our business, ability to provide our products and services, results of operations and financial condition. The cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant and theft of our intellectual property or proprietary business information could require substantial expenditures to remedy. Further, we cannot be certain that (a) our liability insurance will be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyberattacks and other related breaches; (b) such coverage will cover any indemnification claims against us relating to any incident, will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all; and (c) any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition or large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, any personal information maintained by us or on our behalf, whether through breach of our systems, breach of the systems of our suppliers or vendors by an unauthorized party, or through employee or contractor error, theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our business. If any such unauthorized use or disclosure of, or access to, such personal information was to occur, our operations could be seriously disrupted, and we could be subject to demands, claims and litigation by private parties and investigations, related actions and penalties by regulatory authorities. In addition, we could incur significant costs in notifying affected persons and entities and otherwise complying with the multitude of foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, personal information. Finally, any perceived or actual unauthorized access to, or use or disclosure of, such information could harm our reputation, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain customers and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 27 Table of Contents The software we use in providing system configuration recommendations or potential energy savings estimates to customers relies in part on third-party information that may not be accurate or up-to-date; this may therefore generate inaccurate recommendations or estimates, resulting in a loss of reputation and customer confidence. We provide our customers online tools to help them determine proper system sizing and configurations, estimates of bill savings and potential revenues resulting from executing a specific curtailment strategy. These estimates are in turn based on a number of factors such as customer tariff structures, estimated wholesale electricity prices, future economic conditions and estimates of the reduction in electricity usage as a result of a curtailment activity. If the estimates we provide prove to be significantly different from actual payments or savings received by our customers, it may result in the loss of reputation and/or customer confidence. We are subject to stringent and evolving data privacy and security laws, contractual obligations, information security policies and other obligations governing the use, processing and transfer of personal information, and any unauthorized access to, or disclosure or theft of, personal information we gather, store or use could harm our reputation and subject us to claims or litigation. We receive, store and use certain personal information of our customers, and the end-users of our customers energy systems, including names, addresses, e-mail addresses, energy system details and performance information. We also store and use personal information of our employees. We take steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the personal information we collect, store and transmit, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we and our suppliers or vendors may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. We are subject to a variety of local, state, national and international laws, directives and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data in the different jurisdictions in which we operate, including, for example, comprehensive regulatory systems in the United States, Europe and Brazil. It remains unclear what additional requirements will be codified in future laws, how those laws will be enforced, and how these legal shifts impact our operations and risk. We may be required to modify our data practices and policies, at potentially substantial additional costs and expenses. Complying with these forthcoming and future laws, regulations, amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws and regulations, and contractual or other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, data transfers, data localization, or information security may require us to make changes to our services to enable us or our customers to meet new legal requirements, incur substantial operational costs, modify our data practices and policies, and restrict our business operations. Additionally, certain privacy and other laws impose obligations to provide notification of security breaches of computer databases that contain personal information to affected individuals, state officers and others. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with these laws, regulations or other obligations may lead to significant fines, penalties, regulatory investigations, lawsuits, significant costs for remediation, damage to our reputation, or other liabilities. If we fail to protect, or incur significant costs in enforcing, our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and unfair competition laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements and other contractual provisions, to establish and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights. We have applied for patent and trademark registrations in the United States and in other countries, many of which have been issued. We cannot guarantee that any of our pending applications will be approved or that our existing and future intellectual property rights will be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technology, and any failure to obtain such approvals or finding that our intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable could force us to, among other things, rebrand or re-design our affected products. This includes an inherent risk that our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade-names that we own or use may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other marks, and that we may not be able to protect our rights, all of which may cause material adverse impact on our marketing abilities. Our patent protection depends on compliance with various required procedures, document submissions, fee payments, and other requirements imposed by national patent offices, and our patent Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 28 Table of Contents protection could be reduced or eliminated for non-compliance with these requirements, despite our engagement of reputable law firms and other professionals to help us comply with such requirements. Even where we do comply with such requirements and enjoy the full length of patent protection, patent terms are finite in length generally 20 years from the earliest U.S. non-provisional priority filing date which may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our products. In countries where we have not applied for patent protection or where effective intellectual property protection is not available to the same extent as in the U.S., we may be at greater risk that our proprietary rights will be misappropriated, infringed or otherwise violated. To protect our unregistered intellectual property, including our trade secrets and know-how, we rely in part on trade secret laws and confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and independent contractors. We also require other third parties who may have access to our proprietary technologies and information to enter into non-disclosure agreements. Such measures, however, provide only limited protection, and we cannot assure that our confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements will prevent unauthorized disclosure or use of our confidential information, especially after our employees or third parties end their employment or engagement with us, or provide us with an adequate remedy in the event of such disclosure. Furthermore, competitors or other third parties may independently discover our trade secrets, copy or reverse engineer our products or portions thereof, or develop similar technology. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, or if such intellectual property and proprietary rights are infringed, misappropriated or otherwise violated, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially harmed. In the future, we may need to take legal action to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property or from otherwise gaining access to our technology. Protecting and enforcing our intellectual property rights and determining their validity and scope could result in significant litigation costs and require significant time and attention from our technical and management personnel, which could significantly harm our business. In addition, we may not prevail in such proceedings. An adverse outcome of any such proceeding may reduce our competitive advantage or otherwise harm our financial condition and our business. We may be subject to disruptions or failures in information technology systems and network infrastructures that could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems and network infrastructures to operate our business. In addition, our cloud-based monitoring service, which our installers and end-user customers use to track and monitor the performance of their energy systems, is dependent on cloud-based hosting services, along with the availability of internet or cellular data services at end-user premises. Despite testing by us, real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our customer solutions, software or technology or the technology or software we license from third parties, including open source software, may not be found until our customers use our products. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, harm to our brand, weakening of our competitive position or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. A disruption, infiltration or failure of our information technology systems, third-party cloud hosting platforms or end-user data services as a result of software or hardware malfunctions, system implementations or upgrades, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, third-party security breaches, employee/human error, theft or misuse, malfeasance, power disruptions, natural disasters or accidents could cause breaches of data security, failure of our service, loss of intellectual property and critical data and the release and misappropriation of sensitive competitive information and partner, customer and employee personal data. We have been and may in the future be subject to fraud attempts from outside parties through our electronic systems (such as phishing e-mail communications to our finance, technical or other personnel), which could put us at risk for harm from fraud, theft or other loss if our internal controls do not operate as intended. Any such future events could further harm our competitive position, result in a loss of customer confidence, cause us to incur significant costs to remedy any damages and ultimately materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 29 Table of Contents Third parties may assert that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights, which could divert managements attention, cause us to incur significant costs, and prevent us from selling or using the technology to which such rights relate. Our competitors and other third parties hold numerous patents related to technology used in our industry, and claims of patent or other intellectual property right infringement or violation have been litigated against our competitors. We may also be subject to such claims and litigation. Regardless of their merit, responding to such claims can be time consuming, divert managements attention and resources, and may cause us to incur significant expenses. While we believe that our products and technology do not infringe upon any intellectual property rights of third parties, we cannot be certain that we would be successful in defending against any such claims. Furthermore, patent applications in the United States and most other countries are confidential for a period of time before being published, so we cannot be certain that we are not infringing third parties patent rights or that we were the first to conceive or protect inventions covered by our patents or patent applications. An adverse outcome with respect to any intellectual property claim could invalidate our proprietary rights and force us to do one or more of the following: obtain from a third-party claiming infringement a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; stop manufacturing, selling, incorporating or using products that embody the asserted intellectual property; pay substantial monetary damages; indemnify our customers under some of our customer contracts; or expend significant resources to redesign the products that use the infringing technology, or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology. Any of these actions could result in a substantial reduction in our revenue and could result in losses over an extended period of time. Our failure to obtain the right to use necessary third-party intellectual property rights on reasonable terms, or our failure to maintain, and comply with the terms and conditions applicable to these rights, could harm our business and prospects. We have licensed, and in the future we may choose or be required to license, technology or intellectual property from third parties in connection with the development and marketing of our products. We cannot assure you that such licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and our inability to obtain such licenses could require us to substitute technology of lower quality or of greater cost. Further, such licenses may be non-exclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and other established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources or greater development or commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. We could encounter delays and incur significant costs, in product or service introductions while we attempt to develop alternative products or services, or redesign our products or services, to avoid infringing third-party patents or proprietary rights. Failure to obtain any such licenses or to develop a workaround could prevent us from commercializing products or services, and the prohibition of sale or the threat of the prohibition of sale of any of our products or services could materially affect our business and our ability to gain market acceptance for our products or services. In addition, we incorporate open source software code in our proprietary software. Use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, since open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls with respect to origin, functionality or other features of the software. Further, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have, from time to time, faced claims challenging their use of open source software and compliance with open source license terms. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or claiming noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their products to publicly disclose all or part of the source code in their software and make any derivative works of the open source code available for limited fees or at no cost. Although we monitor our use of open source software, open source license terms may be ambiguous, and many of the risks associated with Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 30 Table of Contents the use of open source software cannot be eliminated. If we were found to have inappropriately used open source software, we may be required to release our proprietary source code, re-engineer our software, discontinue the sale of certain products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis, or take other remedial action. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain or maintain licenses from third parties or fail to comply with open source licenses, we may be subject to costly third-party claims of intellectual property infringement or ownership of our proprietary source code. There is little legal precedent in this area and any actual or claimed requirement to disclose our proprietary source code or pay damages for breach of contract could harm our business and could help third parties, including our competitors, develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. Any of the above could harm our business and put us at a competitive disadvantage. Emerging issues related to the development and use of artificial intelligence could give rise to legal or regulatory action, damage our reputation, or otherwise materially harm of our business. Our development and use of artificial intelligence (AI) technology in our products and operations remains in the early phases. While we aim to develop and use AI responsibly and attempt to mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may ultimately be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and the technologies that we develop or use may ultimately be flawed. Moreover, AI technology is subject to rapidly evolving domestic and international laws and regulations, which could impose significant costs and obligations on us. This includes actual and pending orders and laws by the U.S. federal government, the European Union and other jurisdictions in which we operate. Emerging regulations may also pertain to data privacy, data protection, and the ethical use of AI, as well as clarifying intellectual property considerations. Our use of AI could give rise to legal or regulatory action or increased scrutiny or liability, and may damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business. Risks related to Legal Proceedings and Regulations Changes in current laws or regulations or the imposition of new laws or regulations, or new interpretations thereof, in the solar energy sector, by federal or state agencies in the United States or foreign jurisdictions could impair our ability to compete and could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. There has been, and will continue to be, regulatory uncertainty in the clean energy sector generally and the solar energy sector in particular. Changes in current laws or regulations, or the imposition of new laws and regulations in the United States and around the world, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any changes to the laws and implementing regulations affecting the clean energy sector may create delays in the introduction of new products, prevent our customers from deploying our products or, in some cases, require us to redesign our products. For example, several states or territories, including California, Hawaii and Queensland, Australia, have either implemented or are considering implementing rules regulating the installation of solar power systems, and we may not be able to adequately evolve our products and services to accommodate such new policies and regulations, which may result in new rates and tariffs. If we cannot comply with these or other new regulations or implement a solution to such noncompliance as they arise, the total market available for our microinverter and battery products in such states, and our business as a result, may be adversely impacted. Additionally, if the federal or state agencies in the United States takes action to eliminate or reduce laws, regulations and incentives supporting solar energy, such actions may result in a decrease in demand for solar energy in the United States and other geographical markets, it would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the United States trade environment, including the imposition of import tariffs, could adversely affect the amount or timing of our revenue, results of operations or cash flows. Escalating trade tensions between the U.S. and China have led to increased tariffs and trade restrictions, including tariffs applicable to certain of our products. For example, in September 2018, the U.S. began assessing 10% tariffs on certain solar products manufactured in China, including our microinverter products and related accessories which are manufactured in China. These tariffs increased to 25% in May 2019, and on January 2020, the United States and China entered into an initial trade deal which preserves the bulk of the tariffs imposed in 2018 and maintains a threat of additional sanctions should China breach the terms of the deal. It is unknown whether and to what extent additional new tariffs or other new laws or regulations will be adopted that increase the cost of manufacturing in China and/or importing components from China to the United Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 31 Table of Contents States. Further, it is unknown what effect that any such new tariffs or retaliatory actions would have on us or our industry and customers. Our lithium-ion phosphate (LFP) battery cells for our storage products are supplied solely via our two suppliers in China. Although we are in the process of searching for other suppliers outside of China for future supplies, the expertise and industry for the LFP battery cell is primarily in China and we cannot be certain that we will locate additional qualified suppliers with the right expertise to develop our battery cells outside of China, if at all. In response to the tensions in U.S.-China trade relations and increased tariffs, we had focused efforts and resources on attaining manufacturers outside of China, primarily in Mexico and India, but more recently have moved a significant portion of our manufacturing to the United States. However, some components necessary for our products still are required to be imported from outside the United States. Existing tariffs and the possibility of additional tariffs in the future have created uncertainty in the solar industry. If the price of solar power systems in the United States increases, as well as the cost of manufacturing our products in the United States, the use of solar power systems could become less economically feasible and could reduce our gross margins or reduce the demand of solar power systems manufactured and sold, which in turn may decrease demand for our products. Additionally, existing or future tariffs may negatively affect key partners, suppliers, and manufacturers. Such outcomes could adversely affect the amount or timing of our revenue, results of operations or cash flows, and continuing uncertainty could cause sales volatility, price fluctuations or supply shortages or cause our customers to advance or delay their purchase of our products. It is difficult to predict what further trade-related actions governments may take, which may include additional or increased tariffs and trade restrictions, and we may be unable to quickly and effectively react to such actions. As additional new tariffs, legislation and/or regulations are implemented, or if existing trade agreements are renegotiated or if China or other affected countries take retaliatory trade actions, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, while we are not aware of any other current or proposed export or import regulations that would materially restrict our ability to sell our products in countries where we offer our products for sale, any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by these regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our significant international operations subject us to additional risks that could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant international operations, including in emerging markets such as India, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. As of December 31, 2024, approximately 54% of our total employees were located in India, where we primarily conduct our research and development activities, procurement, customer support services, and other general and administrative support functions. In addition, during 2024, we continued to expand our operations into Europe, although revenue from our operations in Europe declined year over year, approximately 23% of our net revenues derived from Europe for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to approximately 31% of our net revenues from the same region for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our current international operations and our ongoing plans to expand our international operations have placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our employees, management systems and other resources. Our international operations may fail to succeed due to risks inherent in operating businesses internationally, such as: adverse social, political and economic conditions, such as inflation and rising interest rates; our lack of familiarity with commercial and social norms and customs in countries which may adversely affect our ability to recruit, retain and manage employees in these countries; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; the potential diversion of managements attention to oversee and direct operations that are geographically distant from our U.S. headquarters; Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 32 Table of Contents compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including environmental, employment, tax, privacy and data protection laws and other regulatory requirements; legal systems in which our ability to enforce and protect our rights may be different or less effective than in the United States and in which the ultimate result of dispute resolution is more difficult to predict; tariffs, export controls and other non-tariff barriers such as quotas and local content rules; more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; adverse tax consequences, including as a result of transfer pricing adjustments involving our foreign operations; effects of adverse changes in currency exchange rates; higher incidence of corruption or unethical business practices; restrictions on the transfer of funds; natural disasters (including as a result of climate change), acts of war or terrorism, and public health emergencies, including the COVID-19 pandemic; and uncertain economic, legal and political conditions in Europe, Asia and other regions where we do business, including, for example, as a result of the ongoing military conflicts in Ukraine, the Gaza Strip and nearby areas, and any changes in China-Taiwan and U.S.-China relations. We also rely on some third-party contract manufacturers outside the United States to manufacture, support and ship our products. Physical, regulatory, technological, market, reputational, and legal risks related to climate change in these regions and globally are increasing in impact and diversity and the magnitude of any short-term or long-term adverse impact on our business or results of operations remains unknown. The physical impacts of climate change, including as a result of certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intensity or changing weather patterns, could disrupt our supply chain, result in damage to or closures of our facilities, and could otherwise have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The success of our international sales and operations will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and manage these risks effectively. Our failure to manage any of these risks could harm our international operations, reduce our international sales, and could give rise to liabilities, costs or other business difficulties that could adversely affect our operations and financial results. From time to time we are involved in a number of legal proceedings and, while we cannot predict the outcomes of such proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are, or may become, involved in legal proceedings, government and agency investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. We cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings. For example, in 2024 and early 2025, we and certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in putative securities class action lawsuits purportedly brought on behalf of holders of our common stock as well as related shareholder derivative lawsuits purportedly filed on our behalf. These lawsuits, which are discussed further in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are currently pending. We anticipate that we may be a target for lawsuits in the future, as we have been in the past. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed on appeal, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms. Any such negative outcome could result in payments of substantial monetary damages and accordingly our business could be seriously harmed. The results of lawsuits and claims cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the final outcome, defending these claims, and associated indemnification obligations, are costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and we may receive unfavorable preliminary, interim, or final rulings in the course of litigation, which could seriously harm our business. Expectations relating to ESG considerations and related reporting obligations may expose the business to potential liabilities, increased costs, and reputational harm. Many stakeholders including governments, regulators, investors, employees and business partners are increasingly focused on corporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations such as greenhouse gas emissions, natural resource management, human rights and human capital management practices. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 33 Table of Contents Any failure, perceived or otherwise, to comply with existing and emerging ESG-related laws and regulations in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, or to meet varied and evolving stakeholder expectations or standards with respect to ESG issues could result in legal and regulatory proceedings and may harm our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely affected by any violations of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other foreign anti-bribery laws. The U.S. FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which we operate also have anti-bribery laws and regulations, including the EU and Brazil, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities, and others (e.g., the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act) extend their application to activities outside of their country of origin. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We currently operate in, and may further expand into, key parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, due to the level of regulation in our industry, our entry into new jurisdictions through internal growth or acquisitions requires substantial government contact where norms can differ from U.S. standards. Additionally, the costs of complying with these laws (including the costs of investigations, auditing and monitoring) could adversely affect our current or future business. Although, we implement policies and procedures and conduct training designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, thereby mitigating the risk of violations of such laws, our employees, subcontractors, agents and partners may take actions in violation of our policies and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us to criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and reputation. Risks Related to our Financial Condition and Liquidity Our gross profit may fluctuate over time, which could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Our gross profit has varied in the past and is likely to continue to vary significantly from period to period. Our gross profit may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: changes in customer, geographic or product mix; increased price competition, including the impact of customer and competitor discounts and rebates; the impact of inflation and higher interest rates; the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications; our ability to reduce and control product costs, including our ability to make product cost reductions in a timely manner to offset declines in our product prices; warranty costs and reserves, including warranty claim rates, proactive steps to address certain component defects in specific products, and changes resulting from changes in estimates related to the long-term performance of our products, product replacement costs and warranty claim rates, as well as changes in the discount rates; loss of cost savings due to changes in component or raw material pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if product demand is not correctly anticipated; introduction of new products; ordering patterns from our distributors; price reductions on older products to sell remaining inventory; component shortages and related expedited shipping costs; our ability to reduce production costs, such as through technology innovations, in order to offset price declines in our products over time; changes in shipment volume; changes in distribution channels; Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 34 Table of Contents excess and obsolete inventory and inventory holding charges; expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements; tariffs imposed on components imported to the United States and necessary for the manufacture of our products; and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in gross profit may adversely affect our ability to manage our business or achieve or maintain profitability. We are under continuous pressure to reduce the prices of our products, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our gross margins. The solar power industry has been characterized by declining product prices over time. We have reduced the prices of our products in the past, and we expect to continue to experience pricing pressure for our products in the future, including from our major customers. When seeking to maintain or increase their market share, our competitors may also reduce the prices of their products. In addition, our customers may have the ability or seek to internally develop and manufacture competing products at a lower cost than we would otherwise charge, which would add additional pressure on us to lower our selling prices. If we are unable to offset any future reductions in our ASPs by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our gross margins will be adversely affected. Given the general downward pressure on prices for our products driven by competitive pressure and technological change, a principal component of our business strategy is reducing the costs to manufacture our products to remain competitive. If our competitors are able to drive down their manufacturing costs faster than we can or increase the efficiency of their products, or decide to lower prices of their products to try to win market share, our products may become less competitive even when adjusted for efficiency, and we may be forced to sell our products at a price lower than our cost. Further, if raw materials costs and other third-party component costs were to increase, we may not meet our cost reduction targets. If we cannot effectively remain price competitive, this could result in lost market share and lower gross margins. If we do not forecast demand for our products accurately, we may experience product shortages, delays in product shipment or excess product inventory, any of which will adversely affect our business and financial condition. We manufacture our products according to our estimates of customer demand. This process requires us to make multiple forecasts and assumptions relating to the demand of our distributors, their end customers and general market conditions. Because we sell most of our products to distributors, who in turn sell to their end customers, we have limited visibility as to end-customer demand. We depend significantly on our distributors to provide us visibility into their end-customer demand, and we use these forecasts to make our own forecasts and planning decisions. If the information from our distributors turns out to be incorrect, then our own forecasts may also be inaccurate. Furthermore, we do not have long-term purchase commitments from our distributors, installers or end customers, and our sales are generally made by purchase orders that may be canceled, changed or deferred without notice to us or penalty. As a result, it is difficult to forecast future customer demand to plan our operations. If we overestimate demand for our products, or if purchase orders are canceled or shipments are delayed, we may have excess inventory that we cannot sell. We may have to make significant provisions for inventory write-downs based on events that are currently not known, and such provisions or any adjustments to such provisions could be material. We may also become involved in disputes with our suppliers who may claim that we failed to fulfill forecast or minimum purchase requirements. Conversely, if we underestimate demand, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet end-customer demand, and we may lose market share, damage relationships with our distributors and end customers and forgo potential revenue opportunities. Obtaining additional supply in the face of product shortages may be costly or impossible, particularly in the event of supply chain disruptions and our outsourced manufacturing processes, which could prevent us from fulfilling orders in a timely and cost-efficient manner or at all. In addition, if we overestimate our production requirements, our contract manufacturers may purchase excess components and build excess inventory. If our contract manufacturers, at our request, purchase excess components that are unique to our products and are unable to recoup the costs of such excess through resale or return or build excess products, we could be required to pay for these excess parts or products and recognize related inventory write-downs. Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 35 Table of Contents In addition, we plan our operating expenses, including research and development expenses, hiring needs and inventory investments, in part on our estimates of customer demand and future revenue. If customer demand or revenue for a particular period is lower than we expect, we may not be able to proportionately reduce our fixed operating expenses for that period, which would harm our operating results for that period. A drop in the retail price of electricity derived from the utility grid or from alternative energy sources, or a change in utility pricing structures, may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that a system owners decision to purchase a solar PV system is strongly influenced by the cost of electricity generated by solar PV installations relative to the retail price of electricity from the utility grid and the cost of other renewable energy sources, including electricity from solar PV installations using central inverters. Decreases in the retail prices of electricity from the utility grid would make it more difficult for all solar PV systems to compete. In particular, growth in unconventional natural gas production and an increase in global liquefied natural gas capacity are expected to keep natural gas prices relatively low for the foreseeable future. Persistent low natural gas prices, lower prices of electricity produced from other energy sources, such as nuclear power or coal-fired plants, or improvements to the utility infrastructure could reduce the retail price of electricity from the utility grid, making the purchase of solar PV systems less economically attractive and depressing sales of our products. In addition, energy conservation technologies and public initiatives to reduce demand for electricity also could cause a fall in the retail price of electricity from the utility grid. Moreover, technological developments by our competitors in the solar industry, including manufacturers of central inverters and DC-to-DC optimizers, could allow these competitors or their partners to offer electricity at costs lower than those that can be achieved from solar PV installations based on our product platform, which could result in reduced demand for our products. Additionally, as increasing adoption of distributed generation places pressure on traditional utility business models or utility infrastructure, utilities may change their pricing structures to increase the cost of installation or operation of solar distributed generation. Such measures can include grid access fees, costly or lengthy interconnection studies, limitations on distributed generation penetration levels, or other measures. If the cost of electricity generated by solar PV installations incorporating our solutions is high relative to the cost of electricity from other sources, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be harmed. Our portfolio of marketable securities is subject to market, interest and credit risk that may reduce its value. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately $1,253.5 million in debt security investments. These investments consisted primarily of money market funds, U.S. Treasuries, U.S. government securities, commercial paper and debt securities of corporations. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. These investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the U.S. debt ceiling crisis, which affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. If the global credit market experiences volatility or deteriorates, our investment portfolio may be impacted and some or all of our investments may experience other-than-temporary impairment, which could adversely impact our operating results and position. Risks Related to our Acquisition Activity We have made and expect to continue to make acquisitions. If we fail to successfully select, execute or integrate our acquisitions, then our business and operating results could be harmed and our stock price could decline. From time to time, we will undertake acquisitions to add new product lines and technologies, gain new sales channels or enter new sales territories. For example, in 2021, we acquired Sofdesk, the solar design business of DIN, 365 Pronto, and ClipperCreek, Inc., and in 2022, we acquired SolarLeadFactory, LLC and GreenCom Networks AG. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following: integrating the companies, assets, systems, products, sales channels and personnel that we acquire; higher than anticipated acquisition and integration costs and expenses; reliance on third parties to provide transition services for a period of time after closing to ensure an orderly transition of the business; growing or maintaining revenues to justify the purchase price and the increased expenses associated with acquisitions; Enphase Energy, Inc. | 2024 Form 10-K | 36 Table of Contents entering into territories or markets with which we have limited or no prior experience; establishing or maintaining business relationships with customers, vendors and suppliers who may be new to us; overcoming the employee, customer, vendor and supplier turnover that may occur as a result of the acquisition; disruption of, and demands on, our ongoing business as a result of integration activities including diversion of management's time and attention from running the day to day operations of our business; inability to implement uniform standards, disclosure