Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results or experience could differ significantly from the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain and you should not place undue reliance on these statements, which speak only as of the date that they were made. These cautionary statements should be considered in connection with any written or oral forward-looking statements that we may issue in the future. We do not undertake any obligation to release publicly any revisions to these forward-looking statements after completion of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect later events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. In this report, unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, Enphase Energy, Enphase, the Company, we, us, and our refer to Enphase Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries. Item 1. Business Our Company We deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. Our semiconductor-based microinverter system converts direct current (DC) electricity to alternating current (AC) electricity at the individual solar module level, and brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking and embedded and web-based software technologies. We are the market leader in the microinverter category and have grown rapidly. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold approximately 4.7 million microinverters as of December 31, 2013, which represents over 1.2 gigawatt (DC). We were the first company to commercially ship microinverter systems in volume. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets and Australia. We were incorporated as PVI Solutions, Inc. in March 2006 in the State of Delaware and changed our name to Enphase Energy, Inc. in July 2007. Industry Background Historically, traditional central inverters have been the only inverter technology used for solar photovoltaic, or PV installations. In an installation consisting of a traditional central inverter, the solar PV modules are connected in series strings. In a large installation, there are multiple series strings connected in parallel. The aggregated voltage from each of these strings is then fed into a large central inverter. As compared to microinverter systems, we believe that traditional central inverters have a number of design and performance challenges limiting innovation and their ability to reduce the cost of solar systems, including the following: Productivity limits . If solar modules are wired using a traditional central invertergroup or string of modules are wired in seriesan entire string's output is limited by the output of the lowest-performing module. Because of its string design, there is a single point of failure risk with the traditional central inverter approach. Reliability issues . Traditional central inverters are the single most common component of solar installations to fail, resulting in system downtime and adversely impacting total energy output. As a result, central inverters typically carry warranties of only 5 to 10 years. Complex design and installation requirements . The central inverter-based solar PV installation requires greater effort on the part of the installer, both in terms of design and on-site labor. Central inverter installations require string design and calculations for safe and reliable operation, as well as specialized equipment such as DC combiners, conduits and disconnects. In addition, the use of high-voltage DC requires specialized knowledge and training and safety precautions to install central inverter technology. 2 Table of Contents Lack of monitoring . The majority of solar installations with central inverter technology offer limited monitoring capabilities. A failure of the central inverter will often go unnoticed for days or even weeks. If a module fails or is not performing to specification, the resulting loss of energy can go unnoticed for an extended period of time. Safety issues . Central inverter solar PV installations have a wide distribution of high-voltage (600 volts in the United States and 1,000 volts in Europe) DC wiring. If damaged, DC wires can generate sustained electrical arcs, reaching temperatures of more than 5,000 F. This creates the risk of fire for solar PV installation owners and injury for installers and maintenance personnel. These challenges of traditional central inverters have a direct impact on the cost and expected return on investment of solar installations to both installers and system owners: Installer . Solar PV installers aim for simple installation design, fast installation times and maximum system performance and predictability. The installation of high-voltage DC central inverter technology, however, requires significant preparation, precautionary safety measures, time-consuming string calculations, extensive design expertise and specialized installation equipment, training and knowledge. Together, these factors significantly increase complexity and cost of installation and limit overall productivity for the installer. System owner . Solar system owners aim for high energy production, low cost, high reliability and low maintenance requirements, as well as reduced fire risks. With traditional central inverters, owners often are unable to optimize the size or shape of their solar PV installations due to string design limitations. As such, they experience performance loss from shading and other obstructions, can face frequent system failures and lack the ability to effectively monitor the performance of their solar PV installation. In addition, central inverter installations operate at high-voltage DC which bears significant fire risks. Further, due to their large size, central inverter installations can affect architectural aesthetics of the house or commercial building. Our Products We design, develop, manufacture and sell a microinverter system for the solar PV industry. We have built from the ground up a semiconductor-based microinverter system that converts energy at the individual solar module level and, combined with our proprietary networking and software technologies, provides advanced energy monitoring and control. This is vastly different than the central inverter approach that can only convert energy of the entire array of solar modules from a single high voltage electrical unit, and lacks intelligence about the energy producing capacity of the solar array. Our microinverter solution brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking, and embedded and web-based software technologies. Our microinverter system consists of three key components: our Enphase microinverter, Envoy communications gateway and Enlighten web-based software: Our Enphase microinverter delivers efficient and reliable power conversion at the individual solar module level by introducing a digital architecture that incorporates custom application specific integrated circuits, or ASICs, specialized power electronics devices and an embedded software subsystem that optimizes energy production from each module and manages the core ASIC functions. A residential solar installation typically consists of 5 to 50 microinverters; a small commercial solar installation typically consists of 50 to 500 microinverters; and a medium or larger commercial solar installation typically consists of 500 to 10,000 microinverters, or more. Our Envoy communications gateway is installed in the system owner's home or business and serves as a networking hub that collects data from the microinverter array and sends the information to our hosted data center. One Envoy is typically sold with each solar installation and can support up to 500 Enphase microinverters. Our Enlighten web-based software collects and analyzes this information to enable system owners to monitor and realize the highest performance of their solar PV system. In addition, Enlighten also provides an online portal specifically designed for installers to enable them to track and manage all of their Enphase enabled projects and monitor and analyze the performance of their installed systems. Together, our Enphase microinverter, Envoy communications gateway and Enlighten web-based software function as a single unified system that enhances energy production, simplifies design and installation, reduces costs, increases system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides the ability to monitor performance in real-time. With an Enphase microinverter system, we believe solar system owners can achieve a higher return on investment over the lifetime of the solar system than would be achieved using a traditional central inverter approach. 3 Table of Contents Key elements of our solution include: Productive-Superior Energy Production. Our microinverter system enables the maximum possible energy production from each module, overcoming a fundamental design limitation of central inverters which are limited by the lowest performing module. We believe that our microinverter systems achieve higher energy production and can generate superior returns on investment relative to central inverter solutions for system owners. Reliable-Longer Life and No Single Point of Failure. Reduction of component count, primarily through semiconductor integration in our microinverter, allows us to design a reliable system that can withstand harsh environmental conditions. In addition, because we process low voltages and power levels, our components experience less stress and last longer than traditional central inverters. Furthermore, the distributed architecture of our microinverter system translates into greater system uptime. If a microinverter unit fails, it results in lost energy production from a single solar module only and not the entire array. In addition, we offer a limited warranty of up to 25 years on our microinverters. Simple-Ease of Design and Installation. Using microinverter technology, an installer can design a system of any size and any roof configuration with a simple modular approach. After initial installation, the system can be easily expanded by even a single module. Our single inverter per module approach converts directly to AC and enables a simpler, all AC design, eliminating the extra cost, training and complexity associated with typical high voltage DC implementation. Without these complexities, installation of microinverter technology is greatly simplified, improving installers' productivity. This also enables a new class of solar installer, such as electricians and general contractors. Finally, our microinverters are installed on the roof and hidden from view, with minimal impact to the aesthetics of a home or building. Smart-Module-Level Monitoring and Analytics. Our microinverter system allows us to collect energy production information in real time on a per solar module basis. This enables powerful system analytics and allows Enphase to offer installers visibility into how systems are performing and the ability to continuously optimize energy production-which is particularly important when operating commercial solar installations. Such services include system performance and diagnostics, benchmarking, as well as system and module alerts and fault statistics. Safe-All AC Solution. Microinverters are safer because they process low DC voltages relative to central inverters. High voltage arc faults associated with traditional central inverter are the leading cause of fires of solar PV installations. Microinverter technology mitigates this safety risk. Due to the benefits of our solution, we believe solar installers achieve greater productivity and competitive differentiation over installers of traditional central inverter solar PV installations, and the solar system owner achieves a higher return on investment with an Enphase microinverter system over the life of the solar system. Our Strategy Our objective is to continue to be the leading provider of microinverter systems for the solar industry worldwide and to accelerate the shift from traditional central inverters to microinverter technology. Key elements of our strategy include: Continue to Penetrate Our Core Markets. We intend to capitalize on our market leadership in the microinverter category and our momentum with installers and owners to expand our market share position in our core U.S. market. Enter New Geographic Markets. We intend to further increase our market share in Europe and Australia. In addition, we intend to expand into new markets with new and existing products and local go-to-market capabilities. Increase Power and Efficiency and Reduce Cost per Watt. Our engineering team is focused on continuing to increase average power conversion efficiency above 96.5% and AC output power beyond 250 watts. We intend to continue to leverage our semiconductor integration, power electronics expertise and manufacturing economies of scale to further reduce cost per watt. Extend Our Technological Innovation. We distinguish ourselves from other inverter companies with our system- based and high-tech approach, and the ability to leverage strong research and development capabilities. As of December 31, 2013 , we had 36 issued U.S. patents, 11 issued non-U.S. patents, 80 pending U.S. patent applications and 139 pending non-U.S. counterpart patent applications . Expand Our Product Offering for Commercial Installations and Utility-Scale Installations. We intend to expand our product offering by introducing new microinverter systems targeted at larger commercial installations and 4 Table of Contents utility-scale installations. We expect these market segments to become a significant revenue opportunity for us in the future. Develop a Software Management Platform. We intend to build upon our strong position as the leading supplier of microinverter systems to develop additional energy management services for our growing network of solar installers worldwide. Customers and Sales We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets and Australia. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to solar distributors who resell to installers and integrators, who in turn integrate our products into complete solar PV installations for residential and commercial system owners. We work with many of the leading solar distributors. In 2013, Vivint Solar, Inc., CED Greentech and Focused Energy, Inc. accounted for 15%, 14% and 11% of total net revenues, respectively. In addition to our distributors, we sell directly to large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our OEM customers include solar module manufacturers who bundle our products and solutions with their solar module products and resell to both distributors and installers. Strategic partners include a variety of companies and arrangements, including industrial equipment suppliers and providers of solar financing solutions. We also sell the Enphase-branded product directly to electrical contractor distributors in North America. Historically, revenues generated from the U.S. market have represented more than 80% of our business, with the remainder from Canada, Europe and Australia. Manufacturing, Quality Control and Key Suppliers We outsource the manufacturing of our products to two key manufacturing partners, Flextronics International Ltd. and Phoenix Contact GmbH & Co. KG. Flextronics assembles and tests our microinverter pursuant to a manufacturing services agreement. Prices for such services are mutually agreed to by the parties on a quarterly basis and we are obligated to purchase manufactured products and raw materials that cannot be resold upon the termination of the agreement. Flextronics' assembly and test plants for our products are located in Fuyong, China, and New Market, Ontario, Canada. Flextronics also provides receiving, kitting, storage, transportation, inventory visibility and other value-added logistics services at locations managed by Flextronics pursuant to a logistics services agreement. Phoenix manufactures our custom AC cable pursuant to a cooperation agreement. Phoenix's facilities are located in Poland and China. In addition, we rely on several unaffiliated companies to supply certain components used in the fabrication of our microinverter system. Customer Service We maintain high levels of customer engagement through our customer support group and the Enlighten web-based software portal, and have cultivated an organizational focus on customer satisfaction. Our dedicated customer support group focuses on responding to inbound inquiries regarding any of our products and services. As of December 31, 2013 , our customer support staff consisted of 55 employees in the United States and 10 employees in Europe. In addition, customized support programs are being developed for selected OEM partners, large direct installers and distributors to help prioritize and track support issues for key partners and to provide a single point of contact. Research and Development We devote substantial resources to research and development with the objective of developing new products and systems, adding new features to existing products and systems and reducing unit costs of our Enphase microinverter system. Our development strategy is to identify features, products and systems for both software and hardware that reduce the cost and optimize the effectiveness of our microinverter solutions for our customers. We measure the effectiveness of our research and development against metrics, including product unit cost, efficiency, reliability, power output and ease-of-use. As of December 31, 2013 , our research and development staff consisted of 162 employees, of whom 140 were located in the United States and the remainder primarily located in New Zealand. Our research and development expenses were $34.5 million , $35.6 million and $25.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Intellectual Property Our success depends, in part, on our ability to maintain and protect our proprietary technologies. We rely primarily on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secrets laws in the United States and similar laws in other countries, confidentiality agreements and procedures and other contractual arrangements to protect our technology. As of December 31, 2013 , we had 36 issued U.S. patents, 11 issued non-U.S. patents, 80 pending U.S. patent applications and 139 pending non-U.S. counterpart patent applications . Our issued patents are scheduled to expire between years 2027 and 2032. We license certain power line communications technology and software for integration into our ASICs pursuant to a fully-paid, royalty-free license, which includes the right for us to source directly from the licensors suppliers or manufacture 5 Table of Contents certain ASIC hardware should the licensor fail, under certain conditions, to deliver such technology in the future. This license includes a limited exclusivity period during which the licensor has agreed not to license the licensed technology to any third party manufacturer of electronic components or systems for use in the solar energy market. The license carries a seventy-five year term, subject to earlier termination upon mutual agreement of the parties, or by us in connection with the insolvency of the licensor. We also license digital intellectual property cores, or IP blocks, for integration into and distribution with certain electronic components built into our products, including our ASICs, complex programmable logic devices, or CPLDs, and field-programmable gate arrays, or FPGAs. This is a fully-paid, non-exclusive, non-transferrable, royalty-free license providing for the integration of such digital IP blocks in an unlimited number of electronic component designs and the distribution of such electronic components with our products. Other than in connection with the distribution of our products, our use of such digital IP blocks is limited to certain of our business sites. The license is perpetual, subject to earlier termination by either party upon the termination, suspension or insolvency of the other partys business, or by the licensor upon a breach of the license agreement by us. In addition, we license open source software from third parties for integration into our Envoy products. Such open source software is licensed under open source licenses. These licenses are perpetual and require us to attribute the source of the software to the original software developer, which we provide via our website. We continually assess appropriate occasions for seeking patent protection for those aspects of our technology, designs and methodologies and processes that we believe provide significant competitive advantages. A majority of our patents relate to DC to AC power conversion for alternative energy power systems, as well as power system monitoring, control and management systems. With respect to, among other things, proprietary know-how that is not patentable and processes for which patents are difficult to enforce, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to safeguard our interests. We believe that many elements of our microinverter manufacturing process involve proprietary know-how, technology or data that are not covered by patents or patent applications, including technical processes, test equipment designs, algorithms and procedures. All of our research and development personnel have entered into confidentiality and proprietary information agreements with us. These agreements address intellectual property protection issues and require our employees to assign to us all of the inventions, designs and technologies they develop during the course of employment with us. We also require our customers and business partners to enter into confidentiality agreements before we disclose any sensitive aspects of our microinverter, technology or business plans. Seasonality Historically, sales of our products in the second, third and fourth quarters have been positively affected by seasonal customer demand trends, including solar economic incentives, weather patterns and construction cycles, followed by a seasonally softer first quarter . Although these seasonal factors are common in the solar sector, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance. Competition The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we compete both with well-established traditional central inverter manufacturers and new technology start-ups. The principal areas in which we compete with other companies include: Product performance and features; Total cost of ownership (usually measured by levelized cost of electricity, or LCOE); Breadth of product line; Local sales and distribution capabilities; Module compatibility and interoperability; Reliability and duration of product warranty; Technological expertise; Brand recognition and customer service and support; Compliance with industry standards and certifications and local electrical code; Size and financial stability of operations; Size of installed base; and 6 Table of Contents Local manufacturing and product content. Currently, competitors in the inverter market range from large, international companies such as SMA Solar Technology AG, Fronius International GmbH and Power-One, Inc. to emerging companies offering alternative microinverter or other solar electronics products. We principally compete with the large, incumbent solar inverter companies because traditional central inverter solutions can be used as alternatives to our microinverter solution. We believe, however, that our microinverter solutions offer significant advantages and competitive differentiation relative to traditional central inverter technology, even when traditional central inverter technology is supplemented by DC-to-DC optimizers. SMA Solar Technology AG and Power-One Inc. have recently introduced or announced plans to introduce microinverter products. In addition, several new entrants to the microinverter market have recently announced plans to ship or have already shipped products, including some of our OEM customers and partners. Employees As of December 31, 2013 , we had 398 employees. Of the full-time employees, 161 were engaged in research and development, 156 in sales and marketing, 50 in a general and administrative capacity and 31 in manufacturing and operations. Of these employees, 338 were in the United States, 34 in Europe, 19 in New Zealand, four in Australia, two in Canada and one employee in China. None of our U.S., New Zealand, U.K. and Australia employees are represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us; however, our employees in France and Italy are represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any employment-related work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Available Information We file electronically with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. We make available on our website at www.enphase.com (under Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings), free of charge, copies of these reports as soon as reasonably practicable after filing these reports with, or furnishing them to, the SEC. 7 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material may also significantly impair our business operations. Our business could be harmed by any of these risks. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. In assessing these risks, you should also refer to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. We have a history of losses which may continue in the future, and we cannot be certain that we will achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred net losses in each quarter since inception, and we may continue to incur additional net losses in the future. We incurred net losses of $25.9 million , $38.2 million and $32.3 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. As of December 31, 2013 , we had an accumulated deficit of $152.9 million . Our revenue growth may slow or revenue may decline for a number of possible reasons, many of which are outside our control, including a decline in demand for our offerings, increased competition, a decrease in the growth of the solar industry or our market share, or our failure to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. If we fail to generate sufficient revenue to support our operations, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have been in existence since 2006 and did not begin shipping our products in commercial quantities until mid-2008. Much of our growth has occurred in recent periods. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, including increased expenses as we continue to grow our business. If we do not manage these risks and overcome these difficulties successfully, our business will suffer. Since we began commercial shipments of our products, our revenue, gross profit and results of operations have varied and are likely to continue to vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are not within our control. It is difficult for us to accurately forecast our future revenue and gross profit and plan expenses accordingly and, therefore, it is difficult for us to predict our future results of operations. Further, our efforts to achieve broader market acceptance for our microinverter systems and to expand beyond our existing markets may never succeed, which would adversely impact our ability to generate additional revenue or become profitable. If demand for solar energy solutions does not continue to grow or grows at a slower rate than we anticipate, our business will suffer. Our microinverter systems are utilized in solar photovoltaic, or PV, installations, which provide on-site distributed power generation. As a result, our future success depends on continued demand for solar energy solutions and the ability of solar equipment vendors to meet this demand. The solar industry is an evolving industry that has experienced substantial changes in recent years , and we cannot be certain that consumers and businesses will adopt solar PV systems as an alternative energy source at levels sufficient to grow our business. Traditional electricity distribution is based on the regulated industry model whereby businesses and consumers obtain their electricity from a government regulated utility. For alternative methods of distributed power to succeed, businesses and consumers must adopt new purchasing practices. The viability and continued growth in demand for solar energy solutions, and in turn, our products, may be impacted by many factors outside of our control, including: market acceptance of solar PV systems based on our product platform; cost competitiveness, reliability and performance of solar PV systems compared to conventional and non-solar renewable energy sources and products; availability and amount of government subsidies and incentives to support the development and deployment of solar energy solutions; the extent to which the electric power industry and broader energy industries are deregulated to permit broader adoption of solar electricity generation; 8 Table of Contents the cost and availability of key raw materials and components used in the production of solar PV systems; prices of traditional carbon-based energy sources; levels of investment by end-users of solar energy products, which tend to decrease when economic growth slows; and the emergence, continuance or success of, or increased government support for, other alternative energy generation technologies and products. If demand for solar energy solutions fails to develop sufficiently, demand for our customers' products as well as demand for our products will decrease, which would have an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business. Short-term demand and supply imbalances, especially for solar module technology, recently have caused prices for solar technology solutions to decline rapidly. Furthermore, competition in the solar industry has increased due to the emergence of Asian manufacturers along the entire solar value chain causing further price declines, excess inventory and oversupply. These market disruptions may continue to occur and may increase pressure to reduce prices, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications could reduce demand for solar PV systems and harm our business. The market for on-grid applications, where solar power is used to supplement a customer's electricity purchased from the utility network or sold to a utility under tariff, depends in large part on the availability and size of government and economic incentives that vary by geographic market. Because our customers' sales are typically into the on-grid market, the reduction, elimination or expiration of government subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity may negatively affect the competitiveness of solar electricity relative to conventional and non-solar renewable sources of electricity, and could harm or halt the growth of the solar electricity industry and our business. In general, the cost of solar power currently exceeds retail electricity rates, and we believe this tendency will continue in the near term. As a result, national, state and local government bodies in many countries, most notably Australia, Canada, France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Japan, the People's Republic of China, the United Kingdom, Spain and the United States, have provided incentives in the form of feed-in tariffs, or FiTs, rebates, tax credits and other incentives to system owners, distributors, system integrators and manufacturers of solar PV systems to promote the use of solar electricity in on-grid applications and to reduce dependency on other forms of energy. Many of these government incentives expire, phase out over time, terminate upon the exhaustion of the allocated funding, require renewal by the applicable authority or are being amended by governments due to changing market circumstances or changes to national, state or local energy policy. Electric utility companies or generators of electricity from other non-solar renewable sources of electricity may successfully lobby for changes in the relevant legislation in their markets that are harmful to the solar industry. Reductions in, or eliminations or expirations of, governmental incentives in regions that we focus our sales efforts could result in decreased demand for and lower revenue from solar PV systems there, which would adversely affect sales of our products. In addition, our ability to successfully penetrate new geographic markets may depend on new countries adopting and maintaining incentives to promote solar electricity, to the extent such incentives are not currently in place. Additionally, electric utility companies may establish pricing structures or interconnection requirements that could adversely affect our sales and be harmful to the solar and distributed rooftop solar generation industry. Our focus on a limited number of specific markets increases risks associated with the elimination or expiration of governmental subsidies and economic incentives for on-grid solar electricity applications. To date, we have generated substantially all of our revenues from North America and expect to generate a substantial amount of revenues from North America in the future. There are a number of important incentives that are expected to phase-out or terminate in the future, which could adversely affect sales of our products. A substantial majority of our revenues come from the United States, which has both federal and state incentives. The Renewable Energy and Job Creation Act of 2008 provides a 30% federal tax credit for residential and commercial solar installations, which expire on December 31, 2016. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended, created a renewable energy grant program that offered cash payments in lieu of investment tax credits to renewable energy project developers for eligible property placed in service prior to December 31, 2011 or placed in service by the specified credit termination date, if construction began prior to December 31, 2011. We believe the tax credit and grant programs have had a positive effect on our sales since inception. 9 Table of Contents However, unless the tax credit program is further extended, the eventual phase-out of this program could adversely affect sales of our products in the future. California is the largest single solar market in the United States, based on analysis from SEIA data and GTM Research, and a significant portion of our revenues are generated in California. In 2007, the State of California launched its 10-year, $3 billion Go Solar California campaign, which encourages the installation of an aggregate of 3,000 MW of solar energy systems in homes and businesses by the end of 2016. The largest part of the campaign, the California Solar Initiative, provides rebates and performance-based incentives which decrease in intervals as installation thresholds are met. The Go Solar California program is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2016, but the pace of installations has been high and the program is likely to conclude sooner. Both Pacific Gas and Electric and San Diego Gas and Electric have surpassed all installation thresholds in the residential sector and are no longer accepting applications. Pacific Gas and Electric is placing all new applications for the commercial sector on a waiting list, and these applications may not be able to receive incentives. Programs for other utilities and market segments continue, but could conclude prior to December 31, 2016 if installations continue at their current pace. We also sell our products in Ontario, Canada. The Ontario Power Authority Green Energy and Green Economy Act of 2009 created two separate FiT programs for projects greater than 10kW and for projects less than 10kW. These FiT programs provide participants with a fixed price for electricity produced over a 20-year contract term. Both programs were recently suspended while they underwent a review. The program for projects less than 10kW was re-opened to new applications in July 2012 with a procurement target of 50 MW. The program for projects between 10kW and 500kW was re-opened for new applications between December 14, 2012 and January 18, 2013 with a procurement target of 200 MW. The Government of Ontario has announced plans for annual procurement targets of 50MW of projects under 10kW and 150MW of projects between 10kW and 500kW through 2017. However, all procurement occurs at the direction of the Government of Ontario and these plans could change, or market conditions could result in procurement targets not being met. Furthermore, the Government of Ontario has the authority to change the FiTs for future contracts at its discretion, and has the authority to modify, suspend, or discontinue the program at any time. Suspension of the FiT program in Ontario directly impacted and could continue to impact our business. Furthermore, any future suspension or modification of the program could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we began selling our products in France, Italy and the Benelux region. During the second quarter of 2012, we opened a sales office in the United Kingdom and began selling our products there at the beginning of the third quarter. A number of European countries, including Germany, Belgium and the United Kingdom, have adopted reductions to their FiTs, Spain announced a suspension of its FiT for new renewable energy projects in January 2012 and Italy concluded its FiT program in July 2013. Certain countries, notably Greece and Spain, have proposed or enacted taxes levied on renewable energy. These and related developments have significantly impacted the solar industry in Europe and may adversely affect the future demand for the solar energy solutions in Europe. The reductions in European tariffs and subsidies and other requirements or incentives, including local content requirements or incentives, have negatively affected and may continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations as we seek to increase our sales in Europe. In the first quarter of 2013, we began selling our products in Australia. In 2012, Australia enacted a national price on carbon emissions intended to increase the cost of traditional energy sources, thereby making renewable energy sources more attractive. Beginning in 2012, several states in Australia also began to gradually reduce their FiTs. As of October 2013, all FiT programs in Australia have expired. Australia recently elected a new national Government. The new leadership has pledged to revise national energy policy, including the carbon price, Renewable Energy Target, and certain renewable energy financing mechanisms. The reductions in incentives and uncertainty around future energy policy may negatively affect our business financial condition, and results of operations as we seek to increase our business in Australia. Additionally, as we further expand to other countries, changes in incentive programs or electricity policies could negatively affect returns on our investments in those countries as well as our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The threat of continuing global economic, capital markets and credit disruptions, including sovereign debt issues, pose risks for our business. The threat of continuing global economic, capital markets and credit disruptions, including the sovereign debt issues in Europe, pose risks for our business. These risks include slower economic activity and investment in projects that make use of our products and services. These economic developments, particularly decreased credit availability, have reduced demand for solar products. The European sovereign debt crisis has caused and may continue to cause European governments to reduce, eliminate or allow to expire government subsidies and economic incentives for solar energy, which could limit our growth or 10 Table of Contents cause our net sales to decline and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These conditions, including reduced incentives, continued decreases in credit availability, as well as continued economic instability, have and may continue to adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations as we seek to increase our sales in Europe. Our microinverter systems may not achieve broader market acceptance, which would prevent us from increasing our revenue and market share. If we fail to achieve broader market acceptance of our products, there would be an adverse impact on our ability to increase our revenue, gain market share and achieve and sustain profitability. Our ability to achieve broader market acceptance for our products will be impacted by a number of factors, including: our ability to timely introduce and complete new designs and timely qualify and certify our products; whether installers, system owners and solar financing providers will continue to adopt our microinverter systems, which is a relatively new technology with a limited history with respect to reliability and performance; whether installers, system owners and solar financing providers will be willing to purchase microinverter systems from us given our limited operating history; the ability of prospective system owners to obtain long-term financing for solar PV installations based on our product platform on acceptable terms or at all; our ability to produce microinverter systems that compete favorably against other solutions on the basis of price, quality, reliability and performance; our ability to develop products that comply with local standards and regulatory requirements, as well as potential in-country manufacturing requirements; and our ability to develop and maintain successful relationships with our customers and suppliers. In addition, our ability to achieve increased market share will depend on our ability to increase sales to established solar installers, who have traditionally sold central inverters. These installers often have made substantial investments in design, installation resources and training in traditional central inverter systems, which may create challenges for us to achieve their adoption of our microinverter systems. Our gross profit may fluctuate over time, which could impair our ability to achieve or maintain profitability. Our gross profit has varied in the past and is likely to continue to vary significantly from period to period. Our gross profit may be adversely affected by numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: changes in customer, geographic or product mix; increased price competition, including the impact of customer discounts and rebates; ability to reduce and control product costs; warranty costs and reserves, including changes resulting from changes in estimates related to the long-term performance of our products, product replacement costs and warranty claim rates; loss of cost savings due to changes in component or raw material pricing or charges incurred due to inventory holding periods if product demand is not correctly anticipated; introduction of new products; ordering patterns from our distributors; price reductions on older products to sell remaining inventory; our ability to reduce production costs, such as through technology innovations, in order to offset price declines in older products over time; changes in shipment volume; changes in distribution channels; excess and obsolete inventory and inventory holding charges; and expediting costs incurred to meet customer delivery requirements. 11 Table of Contents Fluctuations in gross profit may adversely affect our ability to manage our business or achieve or maintain profitability. The inverter industry is highly competitive and we expect to face increased competition as new and existing competitors introduce microinverter products, which could negatively impact our results of operations and market share. To date, we have competed primarily against central inverter manufacturers and until recently have faced little direct competition in selling our microinverter systems. Marketing and selling our microinverter systems against traditional inverter solutions is highly competitive. Currently, competitors in the inverter market range from large companies such as SMA Solar Technology AG, Fronius International GmbH and Power-One Inc. to emerging companies offering alternative microinverter or other solar electronics products. Several of our existing and potential competitors are significantly larger, have greater financial, marketing, distribution, customer support and other resources, are more established than we are, and have significantly better brand recognition. Some of our competitors have more resources to develop or acquire, and more experience in developing or acquiring, new products and technologies and in creating market awareness for these products and technologies. Further, certain competitors may be able to develop new products more quickly than we can and may be able to develop products that are more reliable or that provide more functionality than ours. In addition, some of our competitors have the financial resources to offer competitive products at aggressive or below-market pricing levels, which could cause us to lose sales or market share or require us to lower prices for our microinverter systems in order to compete effectively. Suppliers of solar products, particularly solar modules, have experienced eroding prices over the last several years and as a result many have faced margin compression and declining revenues. If we have to reduce our prices by more than we anticipated, or if we are unable to offset any future reductions in our average selling prices by increasing our sales volume, reducing our costs and expenses or introducing new products, our revenues and gross profit would suffer. We expect competition to intensify as new and existing competitors enter the microinverter market and additional add-on components like DC-to-DC optimizers that can be used with central inverters gain traction. We believe that a number of companies have developed or are developing microinverters and other products that will compete directly with our microinverter systems. SMA Solar Technology AG and Power-One Inc. have recently introduced microinverter products. In addition, several new entrants to the microinverter market have recently announced plans to ship or have already shipped products, including some of our OEM customers and partners. We also may face competition from some of our customers who evaluate our capabilities against the merits of manufacturing products internally. For instance, solar module manufacturers could attempt to develop components that directly perform DC to AC conversion in the module itself. Due to the fact that such customers may not seek to make a profit directly from the manufacture of these products, they may have the ability to manufacture competitive products at a lower cost than we would charge such customers. As a result, these customers may purchase fewer of our microinverter systems or sell products that compete with our microinverters systems, which would negatively impact our revenue and gross profit. Problems with product quality or product performance may cause us to continue to incur additional warranty expenses and may damage our market reputation and cause our revenue and gross profit to decline. We have offered 15-year limited warranties for our first and second generation microinverters and offer a limited warranty of up to 25 years on our third and fourth generation microinverters. Our limited warranties cover defects in materials and workmanship of our microinverters under normal use and service conditions for up to 25 years following installation. As a result, we bear the risk of warranty claims long after we have sold the product and recognized revenue. Our estimated costs of warranty for previously sold products may change to the extent future products are not compatible with earlier generation products under warranty. While we offer warranties of up to 25 years, our microinverters have only been in use since mid-2008, when we first commenced commercial sales of our products. Although we conduct accelerated life cycle testing to measure performance and reliability, our microinverter systems have not been tested over the full warranty cycle and do not have a sufficient operating history to confirm how they will perform over their estimated useful life. In addition, under real-world operating conditions, which may vary by location and design, as well as insolation, soiling and weather conditions, a typical solar PV installation may perform in a different way than under standard test conditions. If our products perform below expectations or have unexpected reliability problems, we may be unable to gain or retain customers and could face substantial warranty expense. We are required to make assumptions and apply judgments, based on our accelerated life cycle testing and the limited operating history of our products, regarding a number of factors, including the durability and reliability of our products, our anticipated rate of warranty claims and the costs of replacement of defective products. Our assumptions have proven and could in the future prove to be materially different from the actual performance of our products, which has caused and may in 12 Table of Contents the future cause us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective products. Increases in our estimates of future warranty obligations due to actual product failure rates, field service obligations and rework costs incurred in correcting product failures have caused and could in the future cause us to materially increase the amount of warranty obligations, and have had and may have in the future a corresponding negative impact on our results of operations. We also depend significantly on our reputation for reliability and high-quality products and services, exceptional customer service and our brand name to attract new customers and grow our business. If our products and services do not perform as anticipated or we experience unexpected reliability problems or widespread product failures, our brand and reputation could be significantly impaired and we may lose, or be unable to gain or retain, customers. Defects and poor performance in our products could result in loss of customers, decreased revenue and unexpected expenses, and we may face warranty, indemnity and product liability claims arising from defective products. Our products must meet stringent quality requirements and may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new generations are released. Errors, defects or poor performance can arise due to design flaws, defects in raw materials or components or manufacturing difficulties, which can affect both the quality and the yield of the product. These errors or defects may be dangerous, as defective power components may cause power overloads, potentially resulting in explosion or fire. As we develop new generations of our products and enter new markets, we face higher risk of undetected defects, because our testing protocols may not be able to fully test the products under all possible operating conditions. In the past, we have experienced defects in our products due to certain errors in the manufacturing and design process. Any actual or perceived errors, defects or poor performance in our products could result in the replacement or recall of our products, shipment delays, rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diversion of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts in order to address or remedy any defects and increases in customer service and support costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Furthermore, defective, inefficient or poorly performing power components may give rise to warranty, indemnity or product liability claims against us that exceed any revenue or profit we receive from the affected products. We could incur significant costs and liabilities if we are sued and if damages are awarded against us. We currently maintain a moderate level of product liability insurance, and there can be no assurance that this insurance will provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim. Also, we cannot predict whether we will be able to maintain this coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that a product liability claim would not harm our business or financial condition. Costs or payments we may make in connection with warranty and product liability claims or product recalls may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our Enlighten web-based monitoring service, which our customers use to track and monitor the performance of their solar PV systems based on our product platform, may contain undetected errors, failures, or bugs, especially when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our service and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. Any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our monitoring service could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. If we are unable to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results may suffer. We have recently experienced, and expect to continue to experience, significant growth in our sales and operations. Our historical growth has placed, and planned future growth is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our management, as well as our financial and operational resources, to: manage a larger organization; expand third-party manufacturing, testing and distribution capacity; build additional custom manufacturing test equipment; manage an increasing number of relationships with customers, suppliers and other third parties; increase our sales and marketing efforts; train and manage a growing employee base; broaden our customer support capabilities; implement new and upgrade existing operational and financial systems; and enhance our financial disclosure