Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Overview We deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold over 7.9 million microinverters as of March 31, 2015 , which represents over 1.7 gigawatts (AC) of solar PV generating capacity. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia and New Zealand. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate net revenues from sales of our microinverter systems, which include microinverter units and related accessories, an Envoy communications gateway device, and our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. We sell to distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems, driven by supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to develop and introduce new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, the diversification and expansion of our revenue base, and our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology and differentiates us in the marketplace. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, manufacturing personnel and logistics costs, freight costs, depreciation and amortization of test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation and amortization of test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the growing demand for our products for the foreseeable future. In addition, third parties, including one of our contract manufacturers, serve as our logistics providers by warehousing and delivering our products in North America, Europe, Australia and New Zealand. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs (including changes in estimates) and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. 14 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, recruiting costs, sales commissions, incentive compensation and stock-based compensation. We expect personnel costs to continue to increase as we hire new employees to support our anticipated growth. We expect that each of the categories of operating expenses discussed below will increase in absolute dollars, but will decline as a percentage of total revenues in the long term. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses such as salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Research and development employees are engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications and networking and software functionality. Research and development expense also includes third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and other indirect costs. We devote substantial resources in ongoing research and development programs that focus on enhancements to and cost efficiencies in our existing products as well as development of new products that utilize technological innovation to drive down product costs, improve functionality, and enhance reliability. We intend to continue to invest substantial resources in our research and development efforts because we believe they are critical to maintaining our competitive position. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. We expect to continue to make the necessary investments to enable us to execute our strategy to increase our market penetration geographically and enter into new markets by expanding our customer base of distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. We sell our products in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia and New Zealand. We expect to continue to expand the geographic reach of our product offerings and explore new sales channels in addressable markets in the future. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services. Professional services consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net includes interest expense on amounts under our outstanding term loans prior to 2015 and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discounts and deferred financing costs. Other income (expense), net also includes gains or losses upon conversion of non-U.S. dollar transactions into U.S. dollars and from foreign currency forward contracts. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. We are subject to taxation in the United States because we sell the majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. Due to the history of losses we have generated in the United States since inception, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of our U.S. and state deferred tax assets will not be realized as of March 31, 2015 . Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net revenues $ 86,653 $ 57,580 $ 29,073 50 % 15 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Net revenues increased by 50% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 , due to higher volume of microinverter systems sold. We sold 719,000 microinverter units in the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to 423,000 units in the same period in 2014 . The favorable impact of the higher volume was partially offset by a decline in the average selling price of our products. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 58,629 $ 38,925 $ 19,704 51 % Gross profit 28,024 18,655 9,369 50 % Gross margin 32.3 % 32.4 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Cost of revenues increased by 51% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 , due to the corresponding increase in net revenues. Gross margin remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014. Warranty expense as a percentage of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was 1.6 percent compared to 3.5 percent for the same period in 2014. Warranty expense in the prior year period included a $1.4 million incremental charge due to changes in estimates related to our second generation product, which reduced gross margin by 2 percentage points. The gross margin improvement attributable to lower warranty expense as a percentage of net revenues was offset by a decline in the average selling price of our products. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 13,430 $ 9,086 $ 4,344 48 % Percentage of net revenues 15 % 16 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Research and development expenses increased by 48% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was due primarily to a $2.7 million increase in personnel-related costs due to growth in headcount to support expanded research and development initiatives including development of new products as well as enhancements to existing products. In addition, costs related to outside contract services and prototype materials increased by $1.2 million. The remaining increase of $0.4 million was attributed to higher depreciation and amortization of research and development equipment. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 11,937 $ 8,828 $ 3,109 35 % Percentage of net revenues 14 % 15 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Sales and marketing expenses increased by 35% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was due primarily to a $2.4 million increase in personnel-related costs due to growth in headcount 16 Table of Contents to support our growing business both domestically and internationally. The remaining increase of $0.7 million was attributed to increased use of outside consultants and costs related to trade shows and other marketing programs. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 8,205 $ 6,526 $ 1,679 26 % Percentage of net revenues 9 % 11 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 General and administrative expenses increased by 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was due primarily to $0.9 million increase in personnel-related costs including higher stock-based compensation and employee recruiting costs. In addition, costs related to outside legal, accounting and other professional fees increased by $0.5 million and facilities-related expenses increased by $0.3 million. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2015 2014 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other expense, net $ (605 ) $ (342 ) $ (263 ) 77 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Other expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased by $0.3 million , as compared to the same period in 2014 . The increase was attributable to unfavorable foreign currency exchange movements associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies, offset in part by lower interest expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity As of March 31, 2015 , we had $27.1 million in cash and cash equivalents and no outstanding indebtedness. Cash and cash equivalents held in the United States were $22.3 million and consisted primarily of non-interest bearing checking deposits, with the remainder held in various foreign subsidiaries. In addition, we have a revolving credit facility (the Revolver) with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) which provides for up to $50.0 million in borrowings. The Revolver has a maturity date of November 7, 2016. The amount of borrowings available to be drawn under the Revolver is subject to a borrowing base calculation that limits availability to a percentage of eligible domestic accounts receivable plus a percentage of the value of eligible domestic inventory, less certain reserves. Based on eligible accounts receivable and inventory balances pursuant to the agreement, approximately $27.8 million was available for borrowing at March 31, 2015 . Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest in cash at an annual rate equal to, at our option, either LIBOR or a base rate that is comprised of, among other things, the prime rate, plus a margin that is between 1.5% and 4.25% depending on the currency borrowed and the specific term of repayment. The Revolver contains customary affirmative and negative covenants and events of default, and requires us to maintain at least $15.0 million of liquidity at all times, of which at least $5.0 million must be undrawn availability. As of March 31, 2015 , we were in compliance with all financial and non-financial covenants under the Revolver. To date, we have not drawn down any amounts; however, we may elect to draw on the Revolver as a potential source of liquidity to finance our short-term working capital requirements and other general corporate purposes. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents of $27.1 million as of March 31, 2015 , together with borrowings expected to be available under our Revolver with Wells Fargo, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, outstanding commitments and fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. 17 Table of Contents If additional sources of liquidity were needed, we may consider new debt or equity offerings, but there is no assurance that such transactions could be consummated on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to raise sufficient capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (In thousands) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (11,498 ) $ 4,281 Net cash used in investing activities (3,611 ) (2,172 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 677 (412 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash used in operating activities of $11.5 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $6.3 million , net changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $11.0 million, offset by non-cash charges of $5.8 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization. Cash used for operating assets and liabilities includes a $13.2 million increase in inventory as a result of an influx of inventory received upon the resolution of a labor dispute related to West Coast seaports. Other changes in operating assets and liabilities that used cash include a $0.8 million increase in accounts receivable and a $2.1 million increase in other assets primarily attributable to an increase in customer financing receivables and the corresponding deferred costs. Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities include a $2.4 million increase in deferred revenue, a $2.3 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities and a $0.2 million in warranty obligations. The increase in deferred revenue includes revenue related to our Enlighten service as well as deferred product revenue corresponding with the increase in customer financing receivables. The increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities was primarily attributable to the increase in inventory, offset by the payment of accrued bonus compensation. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash provided by operating activities of $4.3 million was primarily attributable to net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $6.5 million and non-cash charges of $4.0 million, offset by a net loss of $6.2 million. The increase in cash provided by operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease of $3.6 million in accounts receivable, a $2.5 million decrease in inventory and a $1.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities, offset by a $1.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. Non-cash charges for the three months ended March 31, 2014 include stock compensation expense of $2.0 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.9 million. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash used in investing activities was $3.6 million , primarily as a result of purchases of test and assembly equipment as well as additions to internally developed software. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million, primarily as a result of purchases of test and assembly equipment as well as additions to internally developed software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash provided by financing activities of $0.7 million was due to proceeds from employee option exercises. For the three months ended March 31, 2014, net cash used in financing activities was $0.4 million and was attributable to $0.9 million in principal repayments of our term loans, offset by $0.5 million in proceeds from employee option exercises and employee stock purchases. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2015 have not materially changed from the amounts set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 18 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2015 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2014-09 (Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance under US GAAP. The updated standards core principle is that revenue is recognized when promised goods or services are transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The standard generally requires an entity to identify performance obligations in its contracts, estimate the amount of variable consideration to be received in the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to each separate performance obligation, and recognize revenue as obligations are satisfied. In addition, the updated standard requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. ASU 2014-09 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is not permitted. Accordingly, the ASU will be effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2017. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption on our consolidated financial statements. 19 Table of Contents