Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels, liquidity sources and timing of new product releases are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Overview We deliver simple, innovative and reliable energy management solutions that advance the worldwide potential of renewable energy. Our semiconductor-based microinverter system converts direct current (DC) electricity to alternating current (AC) electricity at the individual solar module level, and brings a system-based, high technology approach to solar energy generation leveraging our design expertise across power electronics, semiconductors, networking, and cloud-based software technologies. Our technology was designed to increase energy production, simplify design and installation, improve system uptime and reliability, reduce fire risk, and provide a platform for intelligent energy management. Since inception, we have shipped approximately 17 million microinverters representing over 3.8 gigawatts of solar PV generating capacity, and more than 760,000 Enphase residential and commercial systems have been deployed in over 110 countries. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. New Products Enphase IQ Microinverter System In the first quarter of 2018, we began shipping our seventh-generation Enphase IQ microinverters for the Enphase Home Energy Solution with IQ, our next-generation integrated solar, storage and energy management system, to distributors in the United States. IQ 7, with its single worldwide SKU, will be phased into markets around the world throughout 2018. Enphase IQ 7 Micro and Enphase IQ 7+ Micro support high-powered 60-cell and 72-cell solar modules and integrate with AC modules. We plan to offer a high-powered variant, the IQ 7X, to address 96-cell modules. Our next generation system, IQ 8, is built on our grid-agnostic always on Ensemble technology. The IQ 8 ASIC, is fully functional, which demonstrates the technological feasibility of Ensemble. This ASIC is made in 55nm technology at TSMC, enabling very high speed digital signal processing. We are continuing to commercialize IQ 8 and expect it to be introduced in 2019. The Enphase IQ microinverter is a key component of the Enphase Home Energy Solution, which can also include our Envoy Communications Gateway with IQ Combiner+, Enphase Enlighten, a cloud-based energy management platform, and our Enphase AC Battery. System owners can use Enphase Enlighten to monitor their homes solar generation, energy storage and consumption from any web-enabled device. Enphase Energized AC Modules We began shipping Enphase Energized AC Modules in North America in the second quarter of 2017. The Enphase Energized AC Modules with IQ utilize our sixth and seventh generation microinverters and are produced through our AC module partnerships with LG Electronics Inc., JinkoSolar Technology, SolarWorld AG, and Waaree Energies Ltd. In 2018 we announced new AC Module partnerships with Panasonic Corporation and Solaria Corporation. 22 Table of Contents Enphase AC Battery The Enphase AC Battery is a scalable, modular energy storage system with a 1.2kWh energy capacity. We began shipments to customers in Australia, New Zealand, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands in 2016. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate net revenues from sales of our microinverter systems and related accessories, which include microinverter units, AC Battery storage systems, an Envoy communications gateway and our Enlighten cloud-based monitoring service. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems and related accessories, supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace by remaining cost competitive, developing and introducing new products that meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, the diversification and expansion of our revenue base, and our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology and differentiates us in the marketplace. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, manufacturing personnel and logistics costs, freight costs, depreciation and amortization of test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation and amortization of test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the anticipated demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We contract with third parties, including one of our contract manufacturers, to serve as our logistics providers by warehousing and delivering our products in the United States, Europe and Asia. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, general and administrative and restructuring expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories other than restructuring expense and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, sales commissions, incentive compensation and stock-based compensation. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses, third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and other indirect costs. Research and development employees are primarily engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications, networking and software functionality, and storage. We devote substantial resources to research and development programs that focus on enhancements to, and cost efficiencies in, our existing products and timely development of new products that utilize technological innovation to drive down product costs, improve functionality, and enhance reliability. We intend to continue to invest appropriate resources in our research and development efforts because we believe they are critical to maintaining our competitive position. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. We expect to continue to make the necessary investments to enable us to execute our strategy to increase our market penetration geographically and enter into new markets by expanding our customer base of distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain Central American markets, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia, 23 Table of Contents New Zealand, India and certain other Asian markets. We expect to continue to expand the geographic reach of our product offerings and explore new sales channels in addressable markets in the future. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services, which consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Restructuring charges are the net of charges resulting from restructuring initiatives implemented in 2016 and 2017 to improve operational performance and reduce overall operating expense and gain on divestiture of our services business. Costs included in restructuring primarily consist of fees paid to management consultants engaged to assist us in making organizational and structural changes to improve operational efficiencies and reduce expenses, severance for workforce reduction actions, non-cash charges related to the disposition of assets and impairment of property and equipment, and the establishment of lease loss reserves. Our restructuring initiatives were largely completed in 2017. See Note 7, Restructuring and Other Charges to the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of interest expense and commitment fees under our term loans and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of deferred financing costs. Other expense, net also includes gains or losses upon conversion of foreign currency transactions into U.S. dollars. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. Due to the history of losses we have generated in the United States since inception, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of our U.S. and state deferred tax assets will not be realized as of March 31, 2018 . Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net revenues $ 69,972 $ 54,751 $ 15,221 28 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Net revenues increased by 28% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 due primarily to an increase in microinverter systems sold and higher average system selling prices. We sold 611,000 microinverter units in the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus 573,000 units in the same period in 2017 . The average revenue per system increased by approximately 16% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the same period in 2017 . We expect average system selling prices to generally decline in the future, which may negatively affect net revenues. See Note 2. Revenue Recognition to the condensed consolidated financial statements. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 51,657 $ 47,703 $ 3,954 8 % Gross profit 18,315 7,048 11,267 160 % Gross margin 26.2 % 12.9 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Cost of revenues increased by 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase in cost of revenues was primarily attributable to the increase in volume of microinverter units sold. Increased expedite fees due to component shortages and higher warranty provision also contributed to the increase in cost of revenues, which was partially offset by a decrease in average system cost. Gross margin increased by 13.3 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase in gross margin was primarily attributable to the combination of a higher average system selling price combined with a decrease in the average system cost as well as the absorption of fixed overhead costs and warranty charges on a higher revenue base. Our ability to reduce product costs and the timing of product cost reductions relative to declines in average system selling prices can have a significant impact on our gross margin. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 7,620 $ 9,605 $ (1,985 ) (21 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Research and development expense decreased by 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 . The decrease is primarily due to the realizing the savings from our restructuring initiative that eliminated non-core projects, which resulted in a $1.5 million reduction in research and development personnel related expenses and a $0.4 million reduction in lab parts, product prototypes and professional fees. Our restructuring initiatives were substantially completed in 2017. The amount of research and development expense may fluctuate from period to period due to the differing levels and stages of research and development activity. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 6,227 $ 6,458 $ (231 ) (4 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Sales and marketing expense decreased by 4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 . The decrease is primarily due to the implementation of our restructuring initiative that eliminated non-core projects resulting in a $0.7 million reduction in sales and marketing personnel related expenses. The savings were partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense, which was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $0.1 million for the same period in 2017. Our restructuring activities were largely completed in 2017. 25 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 6,943 $ 5,833 $ 1,110 19 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 General and administrative expense increased by 19% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period in 2017 . The increase is due to a $1.8 million estimate recorded to reserve for the potential costs associated with our efforts to resolve a dispute with a supplier. The increase was partially offset by a $0.2 million reduction in general and administrative personnel related expenses, a $0.2 million reduction in professional services and a $0.3 million reduction in facilities and other corporate expenses. Restructuring Charges Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Restructuring charges $ $ 7,247 $ (7,247 ) N/A Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 We implemented a restructuring plan in 2016 to lower operating expenses that included reductions in our global workforce and the elimination of certain non-core projects. In 2017 we engaged a management consulting firm to assist us in making organizational and structural changes to improve operational efficiencies and reduce expenses. Our restructuring activities were largely completed in 2017. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, restructuring charges include $4.0 million of consulting services, $1.6 million in cash-based severance and related benefits and $1.7 million in charges for asset impairments and lease loss reserves. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2018 2017 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other expense, net $ (2,418 ) $ (1,079 ) $ (1,339 ) 124 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Other expense, net is primarily comprised of interest expense and gains and losses related to foreign currency exchange and remeasurement and was $2.4 million for three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to $1.1 million for the same period in 2017. Net interest expense is primarily related to our term loan and increased by $0.2 million to $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Other income and expense, net consists primarily of gains and losses related to foreign currency exchange and remeasurement and resulted in a net loss of $0.1 million for three months ended March 31,2018 as compared to a net gain of $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity As of March 31, 2018 , we had $53.3 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $44.2 million . Cash and cash equivalents held in the United States were $48.9 million and consisted primarily of U.S. Government money market mutual funds and non-interest bearing checking deposits, with the remainder held in various foreign subsidiaries. We consider amounts held outside the U.S. to be accessible and have provided for the estimated U.S. income tax liability associated with our foreign earnings. 26 Table of Contents In December of 2016, we entered into an At The Market Issuance Sales Agreement (ATM) under which we sold shares of our common stock up to a gross aggregate offering price of $17.0 million. We realized the full $17.0 million of gross proceeds available under the ATM in the first quarter of 2017. In January 2017, we completed a private placement of common stock that resulted in gross proceeds of $10.0 million. In February 2018, we completed another private placement of common stock that resulted in additional gross proceeds of $20.0 million. In July 2016, we entered into a loan and security agreement (the Term Loan Agreement or Original Term Loan Agreement) with lenders that are affiliates of Tennenbaum Capital Partners, LLC (TCP), which has subsequently been amended and modified as discussed below and in Note 8, Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements. Under the agreement, the lenders committed to advance a term loan in an aggregate principal amount of up to $25.0 million with a maturity date of July 1, 2020. We drew down the $25.0 million term loan commitment at closing. Payments under the original agreement were interest only through June 30, 2017, followed by consecutive equal monthly payments of principal plus accrued interest beginning on July 1, 2017 and continuing through the maturity date. In addition, we paid a commitment fee of 3.3% of the loan amount upon closing and a closing fee of 10.0% of the loan amount is payable in four equal installments at each anniversary of the closing date. We may elect to prepay the loan by incurring a prepayment fee between 1% and 3% of the principal amount of the term loan depending on the timing and circumstances of prepayment. The Term Loan Agreement is subject to customary affirmative and negative covenants including restrictions on creation of liens, dispositions of assets, dividends, mergers, or changing the nature of its business, in each case, subject to certain customary exceptions. In addition, the Term Loan Agreement contains certain customary events of default including, but not limited to, failure to pay interest, principal and fees or other amounts when due, material breach of any representation or warranty, covenant defaults, cross defaults to other material indebtedness, events of bankruptcy and the occurrence of a material adverse change (as defined in the agreement) to our business. The Term Loan Agreement offers TCP typical rights and remedies in any event of default, including the ability to declare all amounts outstanding immediately due and payable. We do not expect the lender to declare default under any event, including the material adverse change clause. In February 2017, we amended our loan and security agreement with TCP to provide an additional $25 million in principal (together with the Term Loan Agreement the Combined Term Loans). We simultaneously terminated our revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the Revolver), and the combined principal and interest balance of $10.3 million was fully repaid. The Combined Term Loans have the same July 1, 2020 maturity date as the original TCP loan. Monthly payments under the Combined Term Loans were interest only through February 28, 2018, followed by consecutive equal monthly payments of principal plus accrued interest beginning on March 1, 2018 and continuing through the maturity date. Interest on the Combined Term Loans is the greater of (a) 10.3125%, and (b) a fluctuating rate of interest per annum equal to the three-month LIBOR Rate (rounded up to the nearest 1/16th of one percent) plus 9.25%. In February 2018 the TCP loan was modified again to provide for the deferral of 50% of the scheduled principal payments in 2018. The term loans under our amended loan and security agreement with TCP are secured by a first-priority security interest on substantially all of our assets; provided, however, that the security interest in our intellectual property may be released when we satisfy certain requirements. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 3,361 $ (24,511 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,043 ) (3,466 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 21,730 40,586 27 Table of Contents Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities of $3.4 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $5.1 million offset by non-cash charges of $5.0 million and net cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of 3.5 million . Non-cash charges included $1.6 million of stock-based compensation, $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $0.6 million provision for doubtful accounts and $0.0 million in asset impairment charges. The primary driver of cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was a $9.1 million decrease in accounts receivable due to seasonally lower revenues and a $7.5 million decrease in inventory due to supply chain management efforts, which were partially offset by an $12.0 million decrease in accounts payable as a result of lower inventory levels and the timing of vendor payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash used in operating activities of $24.5 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $23.3 million offset by non-cash charges of $7.3 million and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $8.5 million. Non-cash charges included $1.9 million of stock-based compensation, $2.3 million of depreciation and amortization, a $0.1 million provision for doubtful accounts and $1.9 million in asset impairment and restructuring charges. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities of $1.0 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash used in investing activities of $3.5 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by financing activities of $21.7 million consisted of $20.2 million in net proceeds from sales of common stock and $2.3 million in net proceeds from the sale of certain long-term financing receivables. These proceeds were partially offset by a $0.8 million principal payment on our term debt. For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , net cash provided by financing activities of $40.6 million consisted of net proceeds from sales of common stock of $26.5 million, which included proceeds from the private placement and ATM offering described above and net proceeds from the term loan of $24.1 million, offset by the repayment of principal on our revolving credit facility of $10.1 million. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2018 to our contractual commitments as presented in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2017 Form 10-K. See Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our condensed consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the 28 Table of Contents extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the condensed consolidated financial statements. Other than as described in Note 2. Revenue Recognition in the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements, there have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2018 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective See Note 1. Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1 for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective. 29 Table of Contents