Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY We intend to build upon our position as a leading worldwide developer, manufacturer and supplier of advanced specialty materials, filtration and purification solutions, delivery systems, and materials packaging solutions to expand our core business and to grow in other high value-added manufacturing process markets. Our strategy includes the following key elements: Commitment to Technology Leadership . We continuously improve our products and develop new products as our customers needs evolve. As semiconductor devices become smaller and more powerful, and new materials and processes are deployed to produce them, we seek to expand our technological capabilities by developing advanced products that address the requirements for greater purification, protection and transport of high value-added materials and by developing advanced chemical materials for use in critical fabrication processes. Leveraging our Expertise . We leverage our broad expertise across our portfolio of advanced materials, materials handling and purification capabilities to create innovative new solutions to address unmet customer needs. For example, our industry-leading post-CMP cleaning chemistry is developed and manufactured by our SCEM segment, with collaboration from our MC 4 Table of Contents segment, packaged with our ultra clean container and connector system made by our AMH segment, and delivered to the process tools through fluid handling systems also made by our AMH segment. Furthermore, in the process tool, these chemistries may go through one or several purification systems made by our MC segment to eliminate particles and contaminants. Another example of the results of this strategy is our advanced deposition materials business, where we leverage our ability to synthesize unique molecules, our knowledge of how to purify these materials, and our capability to safely transport these materials and deliver them onto the wafer at the highest throughput. We believe one of our competitive advantages is our diverse and unique expertise in areas of increasing importance to semiconductor manufacturers, such as developing advanced materials and ensuring the purity of high-value materials, and our ability to work collaboratively across our three segments, which enables us to quickly and effectively develop optimized and complimentary solutions for our customers. Operational Excellence . Our strategy is to continue to develop our advanced manufacturing capabilities into a competitive advantage with our customers by focusing on the following priorities: use of manufacturing equipment and facilities incorporating leading-edge technology including advanced cleanroom and cleaning procedures; implementation of standardized manufacturing systems stressing optimization of equipment effectiveness, predictive maintenance, and direct labor productivity; implementation of automated quality systems that provide both process monitoring and process control throughout the manufacturing process as well as predictive quality data to mitigate against potential quality excursions; implementation of supply chain management systems that assure a reliable and responsive supply of high-quality raw materials; conduct of manufacturing operations to assure the safety of our employees and of the individuals using our products; and maintaining an agile manufacturing organization that is capable of rapid design and development of prototypes of new and derivative products, as well as promptly responding to customer feedback concerning prototypes so that we quickly commercialize and ramp production acceptable to our customers. Continued Focus on Customers . We view the strong relationships we have with our customers, which include leading semiconductor manufacturers, OEMs, and semiconductor materials suppliers, as critical to our long term success. We intend to reinforce and further strengthen these relationships, through, among other things, collaborations and joint development. Customer intimacy enables us to respond rapidly and thoroughly to their manufacturing challenges and enables us to bring forth new products that serve an existing need. Adjacent Markets . We leverage our expertise in the semiconductor industry by developing products for other industries that employ similar technologies and production processes and that utilize materials integrity management, high-purity fluids and integrated dispense systems. For example, outside of the semiconductor industry, our products are used in manufacturing processes for flat panel displays, high-purity chemicals, solar cells, optical magnetic storage devices and products for life sciences. We plan to continue to identify and develop products that address needs in adjacent markets. We believe that by utilizing our technology to provide manufacturing solutions across multiple industries, we are able to increase the total available market for our products and reduce, to an extent, our exposure to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. Strategic Acquisitions, Partnerships and Related Transactions . We will continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and business partnerships that enable us to address gaps in our product offerings, secure new customers, diversify into complementary product markets, broaden our technological capabilities and product offerings, access local or regional markets and achieve benefits of increased scale. Our 2014 acquisition of ATMI, Inc., or ATMI, is an example of this strategy, bringing a whole new portfolio of technologies and materials products to serve our semiconductor customers. Another example is our 2017 acquisition of the water and chemical filtration product line for microelectronics applications from W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc., or Gore, where we acquired a synergistic product line that leverages our existing platform and expands our served markets. Further, as the dynamics of the markets that we serve shift, we will reevaluate our existing businesses and in the event that we conclude that a business is not able to provide value-added solutions to its markets in a manner that contributes to achieving our financial objectives, we expect to restructure or replace that business. Finally, we are continuously evaluating opportunities for strategic alliances, such as our strategic alliance with Enthone, joint development programs and collaborative marketing efforts with key customers and other industry leaders. For example, in connection with our strategic commitment to support the growing semiconductor and related microelectronics industries in China, in 2017, we entered into agreements with local partners to expand our capability to manufacture our specialty chemical and deposition products locally and shorten our supply chain for our customers in China. 5 Table of Contents OUR SEGMENTS As discussed, our business is organized and operated in three operating segments which align with the key elements of the advanced semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem: Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials, or SCEM; Microcontamination Control, or MC; and Advanced Materials Handling, or AMH. We leverage our expertise from these three segments to create new and increasingly integrated solutions for our customers. The following is a detailed description of our three segments: SPECIALTY CHEMICALS AND ENGINEERED MATERIALS SEGMENT The SCEM segment provides high-performance and high-purity process chemistries, gases, and materials that enable enhanced device performance. These materials are utilized in critical semiconductor manufacturing processes such as deposition, cleaning, and integration of complex materials. Advanced materials, delivered at high purity, are critical to enabling the performance of leading-edge logic and memory applications. We believe the growing demand in the 3D-NAND market, challenges with metallization schemes and the need for specialized cleaning solutions will drive consumption for materials in our SCEM segment. In conjunction with products from our MC and AMH segments, the materials in our SCEM segment provide unique solutions to safely and efficiently deliver critical materials to support semiconductor and other advanced manufacturing processes. Specialty Gas Products . Our specialty gas solutions provide advanced safety and process capabilities to semiconductor manufacturers. Our SDS cylinders store and deliver hazardous gases, such as arsine, phosphine, germanium and boron trifluoride, at sub-atmospheric pressure through the use of our proprietary carbon-based adsorbent materials. These products minimize potential leaks during transportation and use and allow more gas to be stored in the cylinder, features which provide significant safety, environmental and productivity benefits over traditional high-pressure cylinders. New generations of SDS products further increase the gas storage capacity, reducing tool down time, therefore, resulting in significant cost savings for our customers. We also offer VAC, a complementary technology to SDS, where select implant gases are stored under high pressure but delivered sub-atmospherically. Specialty Materials Products . Our specialty materials include specialized graphite, silicon carbide and a variety of unique, high purity coatings for dry or plasma etch, chemical vapor deposition and ion implant applications. Our POCO premium graphite is used to make precision consumable electrodes for electrical discharge machining, hot glass contact materials for glass product manufacturing and forming, and other consumable products for various industrial applications, including aerospace, optical, medical devices and printing. Our high-performance specialty coatings, such as our Pegasus coatings, provide corrosion and erosion resistance, minimize particle generation and prevent contamination on critical components in a semiconductor etch environment and other high-technology manufacturing operations. Our specialty materials and coatings provide customized solutions for applications challenged with unique temperature, corrosive, chemical or process environments, such as electrostatic chucks used to hold wafers during processing, plasma etch chamber components, aircraft bearings, and ultrasonic transducers. Advanced Deposition Materials Products . Our advanced deposition materials include advanced liquid, gaseous and solid precursors which are incorporated in chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and atomic layer deposition (ALD) processes by the semiconductor industry, including organometallic precursors for the deposition of tungsten, titanium, cobalt and aluminum containing films and organosilane precursors for the deposition of silicon oxide and silicon nitride films. These precursors are designed in close collaboration with OEM process tool manufacturers as well as device makers to produce application specific solutions that are compatible with complex integrations of material solutions used to build the semiconductor device. We offer containers that allow for reliable storage and delivery of low volatility solid and liquid precursors required in ALD processes. When combined with our proprietary corrosion resistant coatings and filtration solutions from our MC segment, our advanced deposition materials enable the industrys highest purity levels, resulting in improved device performance. Surface Preparation and Integration Products . We offer a range of materials used to prepare the surface of a semiconductor wafer during the manufacturing process and to integrate with materials being used on the wafer. We also provide advanced plating solutions, such as our Viaform product (a trademark of and exclusively licensed from Enthone Inc., or Enthone, a subsidiary of Platform Specialty Products Corporation), which includes inorganic and proprietary organic molecules that provide the wiring for copper interconnects. We also offer CMP cleaning solutions for applications such as semiconductor post-etch residue removal, wafer etching, organics removal, negative resist removal, edge bead removal, and corrosion prevention. Our wet chemistries solutions, combined with filtration solutions from our MC segment and fluid handling solutions from our AMH segment, provide enhanced purity, which results in improvements in our customers' processes. Our consumable PVA roller brush products are used to clean the wafer following the CMP process and our pad conditioners, based on our silicon carbide capabilities, lengthen CMP pad life. 6 Table of Contents MICROCONTAMINATION CONTROL SEGMENT The MC segment offers solutions to purify critical liquid chemistries and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes and other high-technology industries. The design and performance of our liquid and gas filtration and purification products are critical to the semiconductor manufacturing process because they remove contamination and directly reduce defects and improve manufacturing yield. Our proprietary filters remove organic and inorganic nanometer-sized contaminants from the different fluids and gases used in the manufacturing process, including photolithography, deposition, planarization and surface etching and cleaning. As our customers leverage leading edge lithography tools and multi-patterning technology to enable each subsequent generation of products, our filtration and purification products are utilized to achieve necessary levels of purity and contamination control. We believe demand for purification and filtration products is being driven by the continuous node shrink in logic semiconductors and the ramp in the 3D-NAND market, as the risk of yield loss grows with the incremental manufacturing steps needed for the production of these devices. We utilize expertise from the AMH segment in polymer science and from the SCEM segment in chemical manufacturing to develop differentiated filtration and purification solutions for our customers. Liquid Microcontamination Control Products . We offer a variety of unique products that are optimized to control contaminants in our customers liquid processes. For example, our Torrento series of filters is used for the filtration of aggressive acid and base chemistries for both semiconductor fabs as well as specialty chemical manufacturers including our SCEM segment. Manufacturers of high purity chemicals as well as semiconductor fabs use our Trinzik products for the filtration of chemicals as well as ultra-pure water. Our Impact series of filters are used in point-of-use photochemical dispense applications, including those provided by our AMH segment, where the delivery of superior flow rate performance and reduced microbubble formation is critical. Gas Microcontamination Control Products . Our gas filters reduce outgassing and improve corrosion resistance. Our purifiers chemically react with and absorb contaminants, such as oxygen and water, to prevent contamination, and our vent diffusers reduce particle contamination and processing cycle times. Our GateKeeper gas purifiers leverage technology developed from our SCEM segment and effectively remove gaseous contaminants down to part-per-trillion levels. Our Chambergard gas diffusers provide semiconductor equipment manufacturers with the capability to rapidly vent their tools to atmosphere without adding particles to the wafers under process. These products are used in, or alongside, critical processing tools to improve yield and reduce tool downtime. In addition, we provide filters used to eliminate airborne molecular contamination from critical process tool areas or cleanrooms in the fab, improving process yield. ADVANCED MATERIALS HANDLING SEGMENT The AMH segment develops solutions to monitor, protect, transport, and deliver critical liquid chemistries, wafers and substrates for a broad set of applications in the semiconductor industry and other high-technology industries. These systems and products improve our customers yields by protecting wafers from abrasion, degradation and contamination during manufacturing and transportation and by assuring the consistent, clean and safe delivery of advanced chemicals from the chemical manufacturer to the point-of-use in the semiconductor fab. As advanced semiconductor fabs are built, demand is driven for our wafer handling and fluid handling products. As those fabs move into production, we see demand for wafer carrying and fluid containment solutions offered by this segment. The AMH segment collaborates closely with the SCEM segment in developing products that are compatible with advanced chemistries to enhance yield, while integrating liquid filtration technology from our MC segment to deliver consistent and pure chemistry. Wafer Solutions . We lead the market with our high-volume line of Ultrapak and Crystalpak products for wafers ranging from 100 to 200 mm, which ensure the clean and secure transport of wafers from the wafer manufacturers to the semiconductor fab. We also offer a front-opening shipping box, or FOSB, for the transportation and automated interface of 300 mm wafers. We lead the market for 300mm front opening unified pods, or FOUPs, wafer transport and process carriers, and standard mechanical interface pods, or SMIF pods, for 200mm wafer applications. These microenvironment products safely and accurately deliver wafers within the semiconductor fab environment to the various process fabrication steps. Chemical Containers . We have a broad portfolio of flexible and rigid polymer packaging and container products, from low-volume containers to transport high-value photoresist chemistries, such as our NOWPak products, to large intermediate bulk containers (IBCs) to safely and efficiently transport chemicals in bulk, such as our FluoroPure products. Our connection systems provide for safe and efficient chemical dispense from the container in the fab. Chemical companies utilize our packaging products to ensure the purity of chemistries shipped to semiconductor fabs, resulting in enhance yields. We optimize the compatibility and performance of these products on chemistries through close collaboration with our SCEM segment. Fluidics . We are a leader in high-purity fluid transfer products such as valves, measurement, fittings, tubing, pipe, custom fabricated products and associated connection systems, such as our PrimeLock connections, for high-purity chemical applications and our proprietary digital flow control technology improves the uniformity of chemicals applied on wafers. Our IntelliGen integrated 7 Table of Contents high-precision liquid dispense systems enable the uniform application of advanced chemistries during the wafer fabrication process, integrating our valve control expertise with filter device technologies from our MC segment, so that filtering and dispensing of photochemicals can occur at different rates, conserving high-value chemistry and reducing defects on wafers. Our comprehensive product lines provide our semiconductor manufacturers, process tool makers and chemical customers with a single-source provider for their high-purity chemical management needs throughout the manufacturing process. OUR CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS Our most significant customers include semiconductor device manufacturers, semiconductor equipment makers, gas and chemical manufacturing companies, leading wafer grower companies and manufacturers of high-precision electronics. We also sell our products to flat panel display equipment makers, materials suppliers and panel manufacturers, and manufacturers of hard disk drive components and devices. Our other high-technology markets include manufacturers and suppliers in the solar and life science industries, electrical discharge machining customers, glass and glass container manufacturers, aerospace manufacturers and manufacturers of biomedical implantation devices. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, net sales to our top ten customers accounted for 47% , 45% and 44% , respectively, of combined net sales. In 2017, 2016 and 2015, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, accounted for $168 million , $162 million and $134 million of net sales, respectively, or approximately 13% , 14% and 12% of our net sales, respectively, including sales from each of our three reporting segments. In addition, in 2017, Samsung Electronics Co. accounted for $141 million of net sales or approximately 10% of our net sales, including sales from all of the Company's segments. International net sales represented 79% , 78% and 77% , respectively, of net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015. Approximately 2,200 customers purchased products from us during 2017. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, our revenue breakdown by customer segment was as follows: semiconductor manufacturers 50% ; OEMs 13% ; electronic materials customers 13% ; other semiconductor customers 13% ; and non-semiconductor customers 12% . We may enter into supply agreements with our customers. These agreements generally have a term of one to three years, but do not contain any long-term purchase commitments. Instead, we work closely with our customers to develop non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders. However, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for a number of reasons beyond our control. SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT We sell our products worldwide, primarily through our direct sales force and strategic independent distributors located in all major semiconductor markets. Independent distributors are also used in other semiconductor market territories and for specific market segments. As of December 31, 2017, our sales and marketing force consisted of approximately 520 employees worldwide. Our unique capabilities and long-standing industry relationships have provided us with the opportunity for significant collaboration with our customers at the product design stage, which has facilitated our ability to introduce new materials and new solutions that meet our customers needs. We are constantly identifying for our customers a variety of materials, purification and process control challenges that may be addressed by our product solutions. Our sales representatives provide our customers with worldwide technical support and information about our products and materials. We believe that our technical support services are important to our sales and marketing efforts. These services include assisting in defining a customers needs, evaluating alternative products and materials, designing a specific system to perform the desired operation, training users and assisting customers in compliance with relevant government regulations. Additionally, our field applications engineers, located in all of the major markets we serve, work directly with our customers on product qualification and process improvements in their facilities. We maintain a network of service centers, applications laboratories and technology centers located in all key markets internationally and in the United States to support our products and our customers with their advanced development needs, provide local technical service and ensure fast turnaround time. COMPETITION 8 Table of Contents The market for our products is highly competitive. While price is an important factor, we compete primarily on the basis of the following factors: technical expertise; breadth of product line; product quality and performance; breadth of geographic presence; advanced manufacturing capabilities; customer service and support; and total cost of ownership; after-sales service. historical customer relationships; We believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of the factors listed above. We believe that our key competitive strengths include our broad product line, our strong research and development infrastructure and investment, our manufacturing excellence, our advanced quality control systems, the low total cost of ownership of our products, our ability to provide our customers with quick order fulfillment and our applications expertise in semiconductor manufacturing processes. However, our competitive position varies depending on the market segment and specific product areas within these segments. While we have longstanding relationships with a number of semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers, we also face significant competition from companies that also have longstanding relationships with other semiconductor and electronic device manufacturers and, as a result, have been able to have their products specified by those customers for use in manufacturers fabrication facilities. The competitive landscape is varied, from multinational companies to small regional or regionally-focused companies. While product quality and technology remain critical, overall, industry trends are indicating a shift to localized, cost-competitive and consolidated supply chains. Because of the unique breadth of our capabilities, we believe that there are no global competitors that compete with us across the full range of our product offerings. Many of our competitors are local companies that participate in only a few products or in specific geographies. While there are other larger, broad-based materials suppliers, many are concentrated in specific product areas, such as filtration, specialty chemicals or materials handling. Key competitors include Pall Corporation (part of Danaher Corporation), Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Gemu Valves, Inc., Tokyo Keiso Co., Ltd., Mersen, Versum Materials, Inc., DuPont Electronic Technologies, Dow Chemical Company, Air Liquide, Praxair, Inc., SAES Pure Gas, Inc., Donaldson Company, Inc. and Parker Hannifin Corp. ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We believe that technology is important to the success of our businesses, and we plan to continue to devote significant resources to engineering, research and development (R&D), balancing efforts between shorter-term market needs and longer-term investments. Our aggregate engineering, research and development expenses in 2017, 2016 and 2015 were $107.0 million , $107.0 million and $105.9 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 430 employees in engineering, research and development. We have supplemented and may continue to supplement our internal research and development efforts by licensing technology from unaffiliated third parties and/or acquiring rights with respect to products incorporating externally owned technologies. Our R&D expenses consist of personnel and other direct and indirect costs for internally funded project development, including the use of outside service providers. We believe we have a rich pipeline of development projects. For example, our engineering, research and development efforts have been focusing on growth opportunities in areas such as bulk photochemical filtration, new boron mixtures for ion implant, new precursors for deposition, specialty coatings for key applications and new cleans chemistries. Our engineering, research and development efforts are directed toward developing and improving our technology platforms for semiconductor and advanced processing applications and identifying and developing products for new applications, often working directly with our customers to address their particular needs. We have engineering, research and development capabilities in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Texas, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia to meet the global needs of our customers. We use sophisticated methodologies to research, develop and characterize our materials and products. Our capabilities to test and characterize our materials and products are focused on continuously reducing risks and threats to the integrity of the critical materials that our customers use in their manufacturing processes. We participate in Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), an association of semiconductor equipment suppliers, as well as collaborate with leading universities and industry consortia, such as the University of California and the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre (imec). We undertake this work to extend the reach of our internal R&D and to gain access to leadership ideas and concepts beyond the time horizon of our internal development activities. PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS 9 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2017, we own approximately 2,250 active patents worldwide, of which about 690 are United States patents and about 1,170 are pending patent applications globally. In addition, we license certain patents owned by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We refresh our intellectual property on an ongoing basis through continued innovation. While we license and will continue to license technology used in the manufacture and distribution of products from third parties, we do not consider any particular patent or license to be material to our business. We vigorously protect and defend our intellectual property. We require each of our employees, including our executive officers, to enter into standard agreements pursuant to which the employee agrees to keep confidential all of our proprietary information and to assign to us all inventions made while employed by us. We also require all outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors and consultants who are provided confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the consulting or collaboration relationship in question. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entitys or individuals relationship with the Company is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific limited circumstances. MANUFACTURING Our customers rely on our products and materials to assure the integrity of the critical materials used in their manufacturing processes by providing purity, cleanliness, consistent performance, dimensional precision and stability. Our ability to meet our customers expectations, combined with our substantial investments in worldwide manufacturing capacity, position us to respond to the increasing demands from our customers for yield-enhancing materials and solutions. To meet our customers' needs worldwide, we have established an extensive global manufacturing network with facilities in the United States, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and South Korea. Because we work in an industry where contamination control is paramount, we maintain Class 100 to Class 10,000 cleanrooms for manufacturing and assembly. We believe that our worldwide advanced manufacturing capabilities are important competitive advantages. These include: engineered polymer conversion and processing; specialty coating capabilities; advanced membrane modification and cleaning; solids and powders compounding and handling; chemical distillation, synthesis and purification; graphite synthesis; gas delivery systems; blow molding; high-purity gas handling and transfilling; rotational molding; high-purity materials packaging; machining; and membrane casting; assembly. cartridge manufacturing and assembly; We have made significant investments in systems and equipment to create innovative products and tool designs, including metrology and 3D printing capabilities for rapid analysis and production prototype of products. In addition, we use contract manufacturers for certain of our gas purification systems and certain electronic materials products both in the U.S. and Asia. RAW MATERIALS Our products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available from multiple sources of supply. However, while we seek to have several sources of supply for all of these materials, certain materials included in our products, such as certain filtration membranes in our MC segment, petroleum coke and specialty and commodity chemicals in our SCEM segment and polymer resins in our AMH segment, are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers or from suppliers in a single country. We have entered into multi-year supply agreements with a number of suppliers for the purchase of raw materials in the interest of supply assurance and to control costs. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, waste management and health and safety matters, including measures relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation of contaminants, hazardous substances and wastes, as well as practices and procedures applicable to the construction and operation of our plants. Although some risk of costs and liabilities related to these matters is inherent in our business, as with many similar businesses, we believe that our business is operated in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. However, new, modified or more stringent requirements or enforcement policies could be adopted, which could adversely affect us. While we expect that capital expenditures will be necessary to assure that any new manufacturing facility is in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws, we do not expect these expenditures to be material. 10 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2017, we had approximately 3,900 employees. Given the variability of business cycles in the semiconductor industry and the quick response time required by our customers, it is critical that we be able to quickly adjust the size of our production staff to maximize efficiency. Therefore, we use skilled temporary labor as required. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement other than statutorily mandated programs in certain European countries. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT OUR OPERATING SEGMENTS For a discussion of revenue and segment profitability with respect to each of our reporting segments, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis below, which is incorporated herein by reference. See also note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Approximately 79% , 78% and 77% of our net sales were made to customers outside North America in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Industry and geographic segment information is also discussed in note 15 to the Entegris, Inc. consolidated financial statements included in response to Item 8 below, which is incorporated herein by reference. OUR HISTORY The Company was incorporated in Delaware on March 17, 2005 in connection with a merger between Entegris, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and Mykrolis Corporation, a Delaware corporation. On April 30, 2014, the Company acquired ATMI, based in Danbury, CT. Entegris has been helping its customers solve their critical materials challenges and enhance their manufacturing yields for over 50 years, tracing its corporate origins back to Fluoroware, Inc., which began operating in 1966. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.entegris.com. On this web site, under the Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings section, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our annual, quarterly, and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K; our proxy statements; any amendments to those reports or statements, and Form SD. All such filings are available on our web site free of charge. The SEC also maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on our website, and any other website, as referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations could be affected by various risks, many of which are beyond our control. Based on current information, we believe that the following list identifies the most significant risk factors that could affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. There may be additional risks and uncertainties that adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in the future that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see Cautionary Statement in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS TO DECREASE AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Worldwide economic and industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our revenue is primarily dependent upon demand from semiconductor manufacturers, which is driven by the current and anticipated demand for semiconductors and products utilizing semiconductors. While we believe drivers for semiconductor demand, such as smartphones, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, artificial intelligence and other applications, have broadened and provide for a more stable overall industry environment, historically, the semiconductor industry has been, and may in the future be, highly cyclical with periodic significant downturns, resulting in significantly decreased expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. We are unable to predict the ultimate duration or severity of any future downturns for the semiconductor industry. We have in the past experienced significant revenue deterioration and operating losses due to a severe downturn in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is also affected by seasonal shifts in demand. Even moderate cyclicality or seasonality can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from one period to the next. 11 Table of Contents Furthermore, since we must continue to maintain a satisfactory level of engineering, research and development expenditures, continue to invest in our infrastructure and maintain the ability to respond to any significant increases in demand, if they occur, lower sales volume in periods of reduced demand can have a large impact on our profitability. Changes in order patterns have an immediate impact on our revenues because we typically do not have significant backlog. During downturns, our revenue is reduced and there is likely to be an increase in pricing pressure and shifts in product and customer mix, all of which may affect gross margin and net income. Such fluctuations in our results could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance. OUR DEPENDENCE ON SINGLE AND LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS OR AN INTERRUPTION IN OUR ORDINARY SOURCES OF SUPPLY COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We rely on single or limited source suppliers for raw materials, such as plastic polymers, filtration membranes, petroleum coke and other materials, which are critical to the manufacturing of our products. If we lost one of these sources, it may be difficult for us to find an alternative supplier and we would need to qualify this new source through our customers rigorous qualification processes. Although we seek to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could interrupt our manufacturing operations and result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. At times, we have experienced a limited supply of certain raw materials, as well as the need to substitute raw materials, resulting in delays, increased costs and risks associated with qualifying products made from such new raw materials with our customers. Events such as an industry-wide increase in demand for, or the discontinuation of, raw materials used in our products could affect our ability to acquire sufficient quantities and our manufacturing operations may be interrupted. For example, global demand for fluoropolymers increased unexpectedly in 2017 due to greater requirements from certain markets. While we were able to maintain our supply of this raw material and prevent delays in customer shipments by holding forecast reviews with our key suppliers and securing higher levels of fluoropolymers inventory, no assurances can be made that future raw materials shortages will not affect our operations. Additionally, our suppliers may not have the capacity to meet increases in our demand for raw materials, making it difficult for us to meet demand from our customers. Furthermore, prices for our raw materials can vary widely. While we have long-term arrangements with certain key suppliers that fix our price for the purchase of certain raw materials, if the cost of our raw materials increases and we are unable to correspondingly increase the sales price of our products or find other cost savings, our profit margins will decline. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES IS CONCENTRATED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF KEY CUSTOMERS AND, THEREFORE, OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY MAY MATERIALLY DECLINE IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS. Sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. Our top ten customers accounted for 47% , 45% and 44% of our net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our customers could stop using our products in their manufacturing processes with limited advance notice to us and suffer little or no penalty for doing so. The cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. If we were to lose any of our significant customers, if our products are not specified for these customers products or production processes, or if we suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, our revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to the long design and development cycle and lengthy customer product qualification periods required for most of our new products, we may be unable to quickly replace these customers, if at all. Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has been undergoing, and is expected to continue to undergo, consolidation. If any of our customers merge or are acquired, we may experience lower overall sales from the merged or surviving companies. In addition, our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power and may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us, and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. We could also lose our key customers or significant sales to our key customers because of factors beyond our control, such as a significant disruption in our customers businesses generally or in a specific product line, a change in the manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments. For example, our customers aggressive management of inventory has adversely affected revenue in our SCEM segment in the past and may adversely affect future results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO CONTINUE OUR TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION AND INTRODUCTION OF NEW PRODUCTS, WE WILL NOT BE ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPETE. 12 Table of Contents The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to determine. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop mission-critical solutions to maximize our customers manufacturing yields and enable higher performance of end-market materials or devices. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. A failure to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products or the inability to timely manufacture and ship these products or enhancements in sufficient volume could harm our business prospects and significantly reduce our sales. In addition, if new products have reliability or quality problems, we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment, additional service and warranty expense, and damage to our reputation. COMPETITION FROM NEW OR EXISTING COMPANIES COULD HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete against many domestic and foreign companies, some of which have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have better-established customer relationships than we do, which may enable them to have their products specified for use more frequently and more quickly by these customers. We also face competition from smaller, regional companies, which focus on serving those customers in their same region. Another source of competition is from the manufacturing engineering teams of our customers, who continually evaluate the benefits of internal manufacturing versus outsourcing. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and a loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, we expect that existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products or more efficient production of existing products by our competitors could diminish our market share and increase pricing pressure on our products. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN FUTURE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES ASSOCIATED WITH NEW PRODUCT INITIATIVES AND RELATED INVESTMENTS, OUR REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY MAY DECLINE. In the semiconductor market, while the development period for a product can be very long, the first company to introduce an innovative product meeting an identified customer need will often have a significant advantage over offerings of competitive products. For this reason, we may make significant cash expenditures to research, develop, engineer and market new products and make significant capital investments in technology and manufacturing capacity in advance of future business developing and without any purchase commitment from our customers. For example, to support new product and technology development, we incurred $107.0 million , $107.0 million and $105.9 million for engineering, research and development expense in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Following development, it may take a number of years for sales of a new product to reach a substantial level, if ever. A product concept may never progress beyond the development stage or may only achieve limited acceptance in the marketplace. If this occurs, we do not receive a direct return on our expenditures, we may not realize any indirect benefits, we may lose market share and our revenue and profitability may decline. For example, from 2011 to 2014, our capital expenditures relating to developing the capability to manufacture shippers and FOUPs for 450 mm wafers were approximately $16.5 million. However, major semiconductor manufacturers have announced that they would not initiate 450 mm manufacturing in the foreseeable future. As a result, we have taken impairment charges related to certain 450 mm-related equipment and are exiting a location dedicated to 450 mm wafer handling solutions. We cannot assure you that the new products and technology we choose to develop and market in the ordinary course of our business will be successful. WE MAY ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES, FORM JOINT VENTURES OR DIVEST BUSINESSES, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. As part of our business strategy, and as we have done in the past, we expect to address gaps in our product offerings, adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our ongoing strategic objectives, and diversify into complementary markets through acquisitions, joint ventures or other types of collaborations. As a result, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and may encounter difficulties in divesting businesses that no longer meet our objectives. Competition for acquiring attractive businesses in our industry is substantial. We may experience difficulty in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or in completing selected transactions at appropriate valuations, in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake multiple transactions at the same time in order to take advantage of acquisition opportunities that do arise. This could strain our ability to effectively execute and integrate these transactions. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we do make into our existing business operations, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or experience negative effects on our reported results of operations from dilutive results from operations and/or from future potential impairment of acquired assets, including goodwill, related to future acquisitions. For example, if we fail to successfully integrate the water and chemical filtration product line for microelectronics applications we acquired in 2017 from Gore, we may not meet our revenue and bottom line objectives for these 13 Table of Contents filtration products. We may experience difficulties in retaining key employees or customers of an acquired business, and our managements attention could be diverted from other business issues. MANUFACTURING INTERRUPTIONS OR DELAYS, FAILURES TO ACCURATELY FORECAST CUSTOMER DEMAND OR TO RESPOND TO SHIFTS IN DEMAND, AND THE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE MANUFACTURE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, IN PARTICULAR SPECIALTY CHEMICALS, COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our manufacturing processes are complex and require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials. These processes are frequently modified to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties, such as occasional critical equipment breakdowns or the introduction of impurities in the manufacturing process, which could cause lower manufacturing yields, make our products unmarketable and/or delay deliveries to customers. In addition, modification to the manufacturing process of our products may require that the affected product be re-qualified by our customers, which can increase our costs and delay our ability to sell this product to our customers. We could experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, which might result in a loss of customers and exposure to warranty and product liability claims. A number of our product lines are manufactured at only one or two facilities in different countries, and any disruption could impact our sales until another facility could commence or expand production of such products. We have in the past, we may in the future, move the manufacture of certain product lines from one of our plants to another, usually to enhance efficiency and cost effectiveness of our manufacturing operations and to better serve customers located in various countries. Production may be disrupted and we may not be able to meet customer orders if we fail to efficiently and effectively transfer and re-establish the manufacturing processes in the destination plant. This may cause us to lose credibility with our customers and harm our business. Even if we successfully move our manufacturing processes, there is no assurance that we will achieve anticipated cost savings and efficiencies. Our ability to increase sales of our products, particularly our capital equipment products, depends in part upon our ability to ramp up our manufacturing capacity for such products in a timely manner, often in as little as a few months, and to quickly mobilize our supply chain. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, manage such expansion effectively or obtain an increase in required raw materials from our supply chain, our customers could seek such products from our competitors, and our market share could be reduced. Because demand shifts in the semiconductor industry are rapid and difficult to foresee, we may not be able to increase capacity quickly enough to respond to any such increase in demand. We typically operate our business on a just-in-time shipment basis with a modest level of backlog and we order supplies and plan production based on internal forecasts of demand. We have, in the past, and may again in the future, fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, in terms of both volume and product type. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delays in product shipments, disappointment of customer expectations, or, alternatively, an increased risk of excess and obsolescence of our inventory. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations involve, and we are exposed to the risks associated with, the use and the manufacture of hazardous materials, in particular, specialty chemical manufacturing, and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and waste in our manufacturing facilities or distribution centers. In addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of the customer. For example, while we believe that our SDS and VAC delivery systems are the safest available in the industry, as with any products involved in the transport and storage of toxic gases, if a leak were to occur during transport or during storage at our customers location, serious damage could result including injury or death to any person exposed to those toxic gases creating significant product liability for us. There can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to satisfy any such liabilities and our financial results or financial condition could be adversely affected. LOSS OF OUR KEY PERSONNEL, WHO HAVE SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE IN THE SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRY AND TECHNOLOGICAL EXPERTISE, COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, WHILE OUR INABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN NEW QUALIFIED PERSONNEL COULD INHIBIT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND GROW OUR BUSINESS SUCCESSFULLY. Many of our key personnel have significant experience in the semiconductor industry and deep technical expertise. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically research and development and engineering personnel, could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. As the semiconductor industry has experienced growth in recent years, the competition between industry participants for qualified talent, particularly those with significant experience in the semiconductor industry, has intensified. As a result, the difficulty and costs associated with attracting and retaining key employees has risen and may rise further in the future rise. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY, IF OUR COMPETITORS WERE TO DEVELOP SIMILAR OR SUPERIOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR 14 Table of Contents TECHNOLOGY, OR, IF OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY OR TECHNOLOGY VIOLATE THIRD-PARTY RIGHTS, OUR BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS COULD BE HARMED. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology. We rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect many of our major product platforms. We have obtained a number of patents relating to our products and have filed applications for additional patents. We cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will be approved, in key jurisdictions or at all, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable, that any patents owned by or issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or that these patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, and rendered unenforceable or otherwise compromised by third parties. In addition, if we do not obtain intellectual property protection in the international jurisdictions we serve, our competitiveness in these markets could be significantly impaired, which could limit our growth and future revenue. While we routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with third parties to protect our proprietary information and technology, these agreements may not be enforceable or they may be breached by such employees or third parties, and we may not have adequate remedies for such breaches. Furthermore, our confidential and proprietary information and technology could be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties and third parties could design around our patents. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. We may institute litigation in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. For example, in January 2011, we settled multiple patent litigations with Pall Corporation (which was acquired by Danaher Corporation in 2015). We prosecuted and defended these cases vigorously and incurred substantial costs in pursuing them. It may become necessary for us to initiate other costly patent litigation against our competitors in order to protect and/or perfect our intellectual property rights. We cannot predict how any existing or future litigation will be resolved or what its impact will be on us. Our commercial success depends, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating any patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. If we are found to infringe or misappropriate a third partys patent or other proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages to such third party, alter our products or processes, obtain a license from the third party or cease activities utilizing such proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing such proprietary rights. If we are required to obtain a license from a third party, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially favorable terms or at all. OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CLIMATE CHANGE OR NATURAL CATASTROPHES IN THE LOCATIONS IN WHICH WE, OUR CUSTOMERS OR OUR SUPPLIERS OPERATE, SUCH AS THE MARCH 2011 EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI IN JAPAN, HURRICANE HARVEY IN EAST TEXAS, HURRICANE IRMA IN FLORIDA IN 2017 AND THE WILDFIRES IN COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO AND CALIFORNIA IN 2012 AND 2017. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to severe weather and natural catastrophes which could disrupt operations, such as typhoons in Taiwan and China, earthquakes and tsunamis in Japan in 2011, hurricanes in east Texas (Hurricane Harvey) and in Florida (Hurricane Irma), each in 2017, and wildfires in Colorado Springs, Colorado in 2012 and in California in 2017. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or our customers or suppliers operations, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our businesses. While our business continuity plans enabled us to mitigate the impact to our operations of the events described above, there can be no assurance that such plans will be effective in the future or that such catastrophes will not disrupt our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers, resulting in an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. WE MAY BE SUBJECT TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM FAILURES, NETWORK DISRUPTIONS AND BREACHES IN DATA SECURITY, WHICH COULD DAMAGE OUR REPUTATION AND ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including our intellectual property, confidential information, proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners and personally identifiable information of our employees in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security from cyber-attacks, employee error or social media use on our computers or through failure of our internet service providers and other cloud computing service providers to successfully secure their own systems could disrupt our operations, cause customer communication and order management issues, cause the unintentional disclosure of customer, employee and proprietary information, and cause disruption in our transaction processing, which could affect our reputation and reporting of financial results. 15 Table of Contents While our management has implemented network security procedures, virus protection software, intrusion prevention systems, access control, emergency recovery processes and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not occur and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition results of operations and cash flows. WITH A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY OCCURRING OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES, WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE RISKS OF OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 79% , 78% and 77% of our net sales in 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a majority of our net sales. In addition, a number of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. We also manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States and are dependent on international suppliers for many of our parts and raw materials. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities in both sales and manufacturing internationally. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that could impose additional costs on our operations or limit our ability to operate our business; challenges in hiring and integrating workers in different countries; management of a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, along with differing employment practices and labor issues; maintenance of appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and compliance with, legal, environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements; development of relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; fluctuating pricing and availability of raw materials and supply chain interruptions; expense and complexity of complying with U.S. and foreign import and export regulations, including the ability to obtain required import and export licenses; liability for foreign taxes assessed at rates higher than those applicable to our domestic operations; unanticipated government actions, such as trade wars, or laws, rules, regulations and policies that favor domestic companies over nondomestic companies, including customer or government efforts to provide for the development and growth of local competitors; customer or government efforts to encourage operations and sourcing in a particular country, such as Korea and China; and political and economic instability and uncertainty. In the past, we have incurred costs or experienced disruptions due to the factors described above and we expect to do so in the future. For example, in response to recent explosions at gas storage facilities in Singapore and China, the import of gas canisters and chemicals viewed as dangerous have come under increased regulatory scrutiny by governmental officials. As a result, we have established partnerships with local suppliers. However, this increased regulation may impair the ability of our SCEM segment to import those products into Singapore and China and may cause us to lose sales. Also, in the past, our operations in Asia, and particularly South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, have been negatively impacted as a result of regional economic instability. There have historically been strained relations between China and Taiwan and there are continuing tensions between North Korea and other countries, including South Korea and the United States. Any adverse developments in those relations could significantly disrupt the worldwide production of semiconductors, which may lead to reduced sales of our products. WE ARE SUBJECT TO A VARIETY OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS AND REGULATIONS THAT COULD CAUSE US TO INCUR SIGNIFICANT LIABILITIES AND EXPENSES. Failure to comply with the wide variety of federal, state, local and non-U.S. regulatory requirements relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation, of, and human exposure to, hazardous chemicals, which have tended to become stricter over time, could result in future liabilities or the suspension of production or shipment. For example, the Frank R. Lautenberg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act modified the Toxic Control Substances Act, or TSCA, by requiring the Environmental Protection Agency, or the EPA, to prioritize and evaluate the environmental and health risks of existing chemicals and provides EPA with greater authority to regulate chemicals posing unreasonable risks. According to this statute, the EPA is required to make an affirmative finding that a new chemical will not pose an unreasonable risk before such chemical can go into production. As a result, TSCA has been updated so that it operates in a similar fashion to the Registration, Evaluation, and Authorization of Chemicals, or REACH, legislation in Europe. Regulations similar to REACH have been enacted in South Korea and Taiwan. These laws and regulations, among others, increase the complexity and costs of transporting our products from the country in which they are manufactured, to the location of our customer. Any further changes to these and similar regulations in the countries in which we operate or sell into could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or to build or acquire new facilities, require us to acquire costly control equipment, cause us to incur expenses associated with remediation of contamination, modify 16 Table of Contents our manufacture or shipping processes, or otherwise increase our cost of doing business and have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The nature of our business exposes us to risk of liability for environmental contamination if hazardous materials are released into the environment, which could result in substantial losses, reputational harm, increase in our insurance cost or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. CHANGES IN TAXATION OR ADVERSE TAX RULINGS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We have facilities in many foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to taxation at various rates and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Our results of operations could be affected by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate or in the countries from which we purchase raw materials, changes in laws and regulations governing calculation and location of earned profit and taxation thereof, changes in laws and regulations affecting our ability to realize deferred tax assets on our balance sheet and changes in laws and regulations relating to the repatriation of cash into the United States. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability may change. We have undertaken a number of complex internal reorganizations of our foreign subsidiaries in order to rationalize and streamline our foreign operations, focus our management efforts on certain local opportunities and take advantage of favorable business conditions in certain localities. While we have exercised diligence in undertaking this internal reorganization, there can be no assurance that this reorganization, or any future internal reorganization, will not result in adverse tax consequences in the United States or in foreign countries in which we have operations. This could adversely impact our profitability from foreign operations and result in a material reduction in our results of operations. The U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) significantly changes how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required in U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. FLUCTUATIONS IN THE VALUE OF THE U.S. DOLLAR IN RELATION TO OTHER CURRENCIES MAY LEAD TO LOWER NET INCOME AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY OR MAY CAUSE US TO RAISE PRICES, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED NET SALES. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and shareholders equity. Foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to foreign currency fluctuations, our profitability could decline. In addition, sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold, and the currency we receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt versus the time of sale as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. VOLATILITY IN THE GLOBAL ECONOMY COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have experienced extreme disruption in the recent past. Such disruption included, among other things, volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of sovereign debt, declining valuation of certain investments, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, volatility in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Such conditions have had a significant adverse impact on our industry, our financial condition and results of operations. There may be further changes in the global economy, which could lead to further challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial results. For example, the U.K. vote in favor of leaving the European Union may cause instability and uncertainty in European economies and may negatively impact the outlook for the global economy. Tightness of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any disruption in regional or global financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition. If uncertain economic conditions return or deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be further materially and adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Indebtedness WE HAVE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL HEALTH AND OUR ABILITY TO OBTAIN FINANCING IN THE FUTURE, REACT TO CHANGES IN OUR BUSINESS AND MAKE PAYMENTS ON THE INDEBTEDNESS. As of December 31, 2017, we have approximately $683.9 million of indebtedness outstanding, including our 4.625% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2026 (the Notes) and our senior secured term loan facility due 2021 (the Term Loan). In addition, we have approximately $75 million of unutilized capacity under our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility, which is subject to a borrowing base (the ABL Facility). Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes, the Term Loan and the ABL Facility; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility, include variable interest rates; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; preventing us from raising funds necessary to repurchase all Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain change of control repurchase events, which could constitute a default under the indenture governing the Notes; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt. DESPITE OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS, WE MAY STILL BE ABLE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIALLY MORE DEBT, WHICH COULD FURTHER EXACERBATE THE RISKS TO OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION DESCRIBED ABOVE AND PREVENT US FROM FULFILLING OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR EXISTING INDEBTEDNESS. We may incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, such as indebtedness to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. For example, our Term Loan provides that we have the right to request additional loans and commitments, and to the extent that the aggregate amount of such additional loans and commitments exceeds $225 million, the incurrence thereof will be subject to our secured net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio, or in the case of unsecured loans or other unsecured debt, or loans or other debt secured by junior liens, our total net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Notes, subject to collateral arrangements, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the Notes and the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our Company. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, the indenture governing the Notes does not limit the Companys ability to incur unsecured indebtedness and the restrictions in the indenture on our ability to incur additional secured indebtedness is subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications and the amount of such secured indebtedness could be substantial. Further, although the indenture governing the Notes limits the incurrence of indebtedness by a non-guarantor subsidiary unless such subsidiary also guarantees the Notes, such limitation is subject to a number of significant exceptions and qualifications and the amount of indebtedness incurred in compliance with the indenture could be substantial. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH TO SERVICE OUR INDEBTEDNESS AND MAY BE FORCED TO TAKE OTHER ACTIONS, WHICH MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL, TO SATISFY OUR OBLIGATIONS UNDER OUR INDEBTEDNESS. 18 Table of Contents We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance and the condition of the capital markets, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions, as well as certain financial, business, legislative, political regulatory and other factors beyond our control. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems, be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, and our financial position and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions is restricted by the agreements governing our indebtedness and we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. THE TERMS OF THE CREDIT AGREEMENTS GOVERNING OUR TERM LOAN AND OUR ABL FACILITY RESTRICT OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE OPERATIONS, PARTICULARLY OUR ABILITY TO RESPOND TO CHANGES OR TO CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS OR RAISE ADDITIONAL FUNDS. The credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur certain liens; incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility may, at certain times, require us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of some or all of our indebtedness, which could lead to bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans and could adversely affect our ability to: finance our operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures; withstand a future downturn in our business, the industry or the economy in general; compete effectively and engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our best interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. Risks Related to Owning our Common Stock THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK HAS BEEN VOLATILE IN THE PAST AND MAY BE VOLATILE IN THE FUTURE. The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. In 2017, the closing price of our stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, or NASDAQ, ranged from a low of $18.10 to a high of $32.80 , and, as in past years, the price of our common stock may show greater volatility. 19 Table of Contents The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control or may be unrelated to our operating results, and which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, including the following: the failure to meet the published expectations of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; press releases or announcements by, or changes in market values of, comparable companies; volatility in the markets for high-technology stocks, general stock market price and volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among securities of high-technology companies; stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; the public perception of equity values of publicly traded companies and the other risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other filings with the SEC. Future decreases in our stock price may adversely impact our ability to raise sufficient additional capital in the future, if needed. THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO DECLARE CASH DIVIDENDS OR REPURCHASE OUR SHARES AT ALL OR IN ANY PARTICULAR AMOUNTS Our Board of Directors initiated a quarterly dividend in November 2017. Our intent to continue to pay quarterly dividends and to repurchase our shares is subject to capital availability and periodic determinations by our Board of Directors that such actions are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with all laws and applicable agreements. Future dividends and share repurchases may also be affected by, among other factors, our views on potential future capital requirements for investments in acquisitions and the funding of our research and development; legal risks; changes in federal and state income tax laws or corporate laws; contractual restrictions, such as financial or operating covenants in our debt arrangements; availability of onshore cash flow; and changes to our business model. Our dividend payments and share repurchases may change from time to time, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to declare dividends or repurchase shares at all or in any particular amounts. A reduction or suspension in our dividend payments could have a negative effect on the price of our common stock. PROVISIONS IN OUR CHARTER DOCUMENTS AND DELAWARE LAW MAY DELAY OR PREVENT AN ACQUISITION OF US, WHICH COULD DECREASE THE VALUE OF YOUR SHARES. Our restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. Our restated certificate of incorporation makes us subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares of common stock and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in the price of our common stock that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our common stock. Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix and designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Our issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. YOUR PERCENTAGE OWNERSHIP IN US MAY BE DILUTED BY FUTURE ISSUANCES OF CAPITAL STOCK, WHICH COULD REDUCE YOUR INFLUENCE OVER MATTERS ON WHICH STOCKHOLDERS VOTE. Subject to applicable NASDAQ standards, our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares. Issuances of common stock or the exercise of employee stock options would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote. In addition, we may issue substantial quantities of our common stock in order to effect acquisitions which would also dilute your ownership interest. If the issuances are made at prices that reflect a discount from the then current trading price of our common stock, your interest in the book value of our common stock might be diluted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 20 Table of Contents Item 2. Properties. Our principal executive offices are located in Billerica, Massachusetts. We also have manufacturing, research and equipment cleaning facilities in the United States, Japan, France, Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and Malaysia. Information about our principal facilities is set forth below: Location Principal Function Approximate Square Feet Leased/ Owned Reporting Segment Bedford, Massachusetts Research & Manufacturing 80,000 Owned MC & SCEM Billerica, Massachusetts (1) Executive Offices, Research & Manufacturing 175,000 Leased MC & SCEM Bloomington, MN Research & Manufacturing 68,000 Leased AMH Burnet, TX Research & Manufacturing 77,000 Owned SCEM Chaska, Minnesota Executive Offices, Research & Manufacturing 186,000 Owned AMH Colorado Springs, CO Manufacturing 82,000 Owned AMH Colorado Springs, CO Manufacturing 40,000 Leased AMH Danbury, CT Research & Manufacturing 73,000 Leased SCEM Decatur, Texas Manufacturing 359,000 Owned SCEM Hsin-chu, Taiwan Executive Offices, Sales Research & Manufacturing 109,000 Leased MC, SCEM & AMH Yangmei City, Taiwan Manufacturing 40,000 Leased AMH JangAn, South Korea Manufacturing 127,000 Owned SCEM & AMH Kulim, Malaysia Manufacturing 195,000 Owned SCEM & AMH Montpellier, France Cleaning Services 53,000 Owned AMH Russellville, Arkansas Manufacturing 113,127 Leased SCEM Suwon, South Korea Executive Offices & Research 42,000 Leased MC & SCEM Tokyo, Japan Executive Offices, Sales & Research 27,000 Leased MC, SCEM & AMH Wonju City, South Korea Manufacturing 39,000 Owned AMH Yonezawa, Japan Manufacturing 185,000 Owned MC & AMH (1) This lease has been extended through September 30, 2026 and is subject to one five-year renewal option. We lease approximately 13,000 square feet of research and development and manufacturing office space located in San Diego, California, approximately 31,000 square feet of manufacturing space located in Franklin, Massachusetts, an aggregate of approximately 23,000 square feet of manufacturing space in Anseong, South Korea, approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Round Rock, Texas, and approximately 3,300 square feet of office space in Tempe, Arizona. We lease approximately 12,000 square feet for our Asia manufacturing management offices in Singapore. In addition, we maintain a worldwide network of sales, service, repair or cleaning centers in the United States, Germany, France, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, China and South Korea. Leases for our facilities expire through December 2024. We currently expect to be able to extend the terms of expiring leases or to find suitable replacement facilities on reasonable terms. We believe that our facilities are well-maintained and suitable for their respective operations. All of our facilities are generally utilized within a normal range of production volume. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. As of December 31, 2017 , we were not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. From time to time the Company may be a party to litigation involving claims against the Company arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not aware of any material potential litigation or claims against us which would have a material adverse effect upon our financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following is a list of our Executive Officers and their ages, as of the date of this this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Name Age Office First Appointed To Office* Bertrand Loy 52 President & Chief Executive Officer 2001 Gregory B. Graves 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer 2002 Todd Edlund 55 Executive Vice President & Chief Operating Officer 2007 Sue Lee 41 Senior Vice President , Secretary & General Counsel 2016 Sue Rice 59 Senior Vice President, Human Resources 2017 Corey Rucci 58 Senior Vice President, Business Development 2014 Gregory Marshall 60 Senior Vice President, Quality, EH&S and Entegris Business Support 2011 Stuart Tison 54 Senior Vice President & General Manager, Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials 2016 Clint Haris 45 Senior Vice President & General Manager, Microcontamination Control 2016 William Shaner 50 Senior Vice President & General Manager, Advanced Materials Handling 2007 Bruce W. Beckman 50 Senior Vice President, Finance 2018 Michael D. Sauer 52 Vice President, Controller & Chief Accounting Officer 2011 * With either the Company or a predecessor company Bertrand Loy has been our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director since November 2012. Mr. Loy served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since 2008. From August 2005 until July 2008, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in charge of our global supply chain and manufacturing operations. He served as the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mykrolis from January 2001 until August 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Loy served as the Chief Information Officer of Millipore Corporation during 1999 and 2000. From 1995 until 1999, he served as the Division Controller and Head of Manufacturing for Millipores Laboratory Water Division. From 1989 until 1995, Mr. Loy served Sandoz Pharmaceuticals (now Novartis) in a variety of financial, audit and controller positions located in Europe, Central America and Japan. Mr. Loy served as a director of BTU International, Inc. (supplier of advanced thermal processing equipment) until its acquisition in January 2015. He also serves as a director of Harvard Bioscience, Inc. (scientific equipment) since November 2014 and has been a director for SEMI (Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International) (global high-technology manufacturing trade association) since July 2013. Gregory B. Graves has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007. Prior to April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning & Business Development since the effectiveness of the merger with Mykrolis. Mr. Graves served as the Chief Business Development Officer of Entegris Minnesota since September 2002 and from September 2003 until August 2004 he also served as Senior Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining Entegris Minnesota, Mr. Graves held positions in investment banking and corporate development, including at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray from June 1998 to August 2002 and at Dain Rauscher from October 1996 to May 1998. Since May 2017, Mr. Graves has served as a director of Power Plug Inc. (energy solutions provider). Todd Edlund has been our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since July 2016. Prior to that he was our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2014. After the merger with ATMI, Mr. Edlund served as Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Critical Materials Handling business and prior to the merger with ATMI, he was the Vice President and General Manager of our Contamination Control Solutions division since December 2007. He served as the Vice President and General Manager of our Liquid Systems business unit from 2005 to 2007, and prior to that as Entegris Minnesotas Vice President of Sales for semiconductor markets from 2003 to 2005. Prior to 2003, Mr. Edlund held a variety of positions with our predecessor companies since 1995. Sue Lee has been our Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since April 2016. Prior to joining Entegris, Ms. Lee was general counsel and corporate secretary with CYREN, a network security firm since 2013. From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Lee served as general counsel for Harmonix Music Systems, a former MTV company. Prior to that, Ms. Lee was vice president of business 22 Table of Contents and legal affairs for MTV Networks and counsel at Genzyme Corporation. Prior to going in-house in 2005, Ms. Lee was an attorney at the law firm, Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton, in New York. Sue Rice joined us as our Senior Vice President of Human Resources in September 2017. Prior to that, Ms. Rice served as Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer for Thermo Fisher Scientific from 2013 to 2017, Region Vice President HR Asia Pacific & Emerging Markets from 2009 to 2013 and Group Vice President, HR Analytical Technologies Group from 2006 to 2009. Prior to that, Ms. Rice held senior human resource positions with Fidelity Human Resources Services Company and Sherbrooke Associates. Gregory Marshall has been our Senior Vice President, Quality, EH&S and Entegris Business Support since August 2016. Prior to that Mr. Marshall served as our Vice President, Quality and EH&S since March 2010 and our Global Director of Quality since the merger with Mykrolis Corporation, prior to which he served as the Director of Quality for Mykrolis. Prior to joining Mykrolis, Mr. Marshall served as the Director of US Quality for Kokusai Semiconductor Equipment Corporation . Corey Rucci has served as our Senior Vice President, Business Development since January 2018, having served as Vice President, Business Development since February 2014. Prior to that he served as Vice President and General Manager of our Specialty Materials Division since 2011 and as General Manager of Poco Graphite, Inc. (POCO) since 2008 when we acquired POCO. Prior to joining Entegris, Mr. Rucci served POCO as the President and Chief Operating Officer since 2007, Chief Operating Officer since 2005, Chief Financial Officer since 2001 and Vice President of Business Development since 1998. Prior to that he worked at UNOCAL Corp. for 17 years in a variety of accounting, marketing and business development roles. Stuart Tison has been our Senior Vice President, Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials since July 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Tison served as Vice President, Specialty Gas Solutions since February 2015, as Vice President, Business Development since January 2010 and as Vice President, Corporate Development since July 2007. Prior to that he served Celerity, Inc. as Vice President, Engineering and served Entegris predecessor companies Mykrolis and Millipore in a variety of sales, marketing, business development and engineering roles. Clint Haris has been our Senior Vice President, Microcontamination Control since July 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Haris served as our Vice President, Liquid Microcontamination Control since August 2014. Prior to joining Entegris, Mr. Haris served in a variety of executive roles at Brooks Automation Inc. including Senior Vice President, Life Science Systems from 2010 to 2014 and Senior Vice President and General Manager, Systems Solutions from 2009 to 2010. William Shaner has been our Senior Vice President, Advanced Materials Handling since July 2016. Prior to that, Mr. Shaner served as our Senior Vice President, Global Operations since February 2014 and as our Vice President and General Manager, Microenvironments division since 2007. He has served in a variety of sales, marketing, business development and engineering roles since joining Entegris in 1995. Bruce W. Beckman has been our Senior Vice President, Finance since February 2018. Prior to that, Mr. Beckman served as Vice President, Finance since joining Entegris in 2015. From 1990 to 2015, Mr. Beckman worked in numerous capacities for General Mills, Inc., including Vice President, Finance, Meals Division and Director of Corporate Planning & Analysis. Michael D. Sauer has been our Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since June 2012. Prior to that, he served as the Corporate Controller since 2008. From the time of the merger with Mykrolis until April 2008, Mr. Sauer served as Director of Treasury and Risk Management. Mr. Sauer joined Fluoroware, Inc., a predecessor to Entegris Minnesota in 1988 and held a variety of finance and accounting positions until 2001 when he became the Director of Business Development for Entegris Minnesota, the successor to Fluoroware, serving in that position until the merger with Mykrolis. 23 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information and Holders: Entegris Common Stock, $0.01 par value, trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ENTG. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of the Company shares for each full quarterly period during 2017 and 2016 . As of February 12, 2018 there were 1,130 shareholders of record. On February 12, 2018 , the last sale price reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for our common stock was $31.10 per share. 2017 2016 Low High Low High First quarter $ 17.65 $ 23.85 $ 10.37 $ 13.80 Second quarter $ 21.90 $ 27.20 $ 12.79 $ 14.77 Third quarter $ 21.78 $ 28.85 $ 13.97 $ 17.73 Fourth quarter $ 28.20 $ 32.80 $ 14.73 $ 18.95 Dividend Policy: Holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when and if they are declared by our board of directors. During 2017, our board of directors declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share during the fourth quarter of 2017, which was paid and totaled $9.9 million. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of our board of directors. Furthermore, the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and our ABL Facility contain restrictions that may limit our ability to pay dividends. Issuer Sales of Unregistered Securities During the Past Three Years: None 24 Table of Contents Comparative Stock Performance The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on the common stock of Entegris, Inc. from December 31, 2012 through December 31, 2017 with the cumulative total return of (1) The NASDAQ Composite Index, and (2) The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, assuming $100 was invested at the close of trading December 31, 2012 in Entegris, Inc. common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index and that all dividends are reinvested. December 31, 2012 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2015 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2017 Entegris, Inc. $100.00 $126.25 $143.90 $144.55 $194.99 $332.42 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 140.12 160.78 171.97 187.22 242.71 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100.00 141.84 186.38 183.36 237.14 333.28 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities: On February 13, 2017, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program covering up to an aggregate of $100 million of the Companys common stock in open market transactions and in accordance with one or more pre-arranged stock trading plans to be established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The authorization expires on February 15, 2019. This repurchase program represents a further renewal of the repurchase program originally authorized by the Board of Directors on February 5, 2016, which expired February 15, 2017, and that had been subsequently renewed to February 15, 2018. 25 Table of Contents The following table provides information concerning shares of the Companys Common Stock $0.01 par value purchased during the three months ended December 31, 2017: Period (a) Total Number of Shares Purchased (b) Average Price Paid per Share (c) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (d) Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 through November 4, 2017 137,500 $30.27 137,500 $70,265,481 November 5 through December 2, 2017 95,500 $31.58 95,500 $67,249,688 December 3 through December 31, 2017 92,962 $30.36 92,962 $64,427,356 Total 325,962 $30.68 325,962 $64,427,356 The Company issues restricted stock unit awards (RSUs) under its equity incentive plans. In the consolidated financial statements, the Company treats shares of common stock withheld for tax purposes on behalf of its employees in connection with the vesting of RSUs as common stock repurchases because they reduce the number of shares that would have been issued upon vesting. These withheld shares of common stock are not considered common stock repurchases under the Company's authorized common stock repurchase plan and accordingly are not included in the common stock repurchase totals in the preceding table. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The table that follows presents selected financial data for each of the last five years from the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes and with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected financial data set forth below as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 and for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 are derived from our audited financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All other selected financial data set forth below is derived from our audited financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations to be expected in the future. 26 Table of Contents (In thousands, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 2017 Year ended December 31, 2016 Year ended December 31, 2015 Year ended December 31, 2014 Year ended December 31, 2013 Operating Results Net sales $ 1,342,532 $ 1,175,270 $ 1,081,121 $ 962,069 $ 693,459 Gross profit 608,985 508,691 470,231 376,683 294,214 Selling, general and administrative expenses 216,194 201,901 198,914 231,833 137,123 Engineering, research and development expenses 106,951 106,991 105,900 87,711 55,320 Amortization of intangible assets 44,023 44,263 47,349 37,067 9,347 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,282 ) (1,813 ) Operating income 241,817 155,536 118,068 21,354 94,237 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliate 184,731 119,999 92,185 (13,392 ) 96,195 Income tax expense (benefit) 99,665 22,852 10,202 (21,572 ) 21,669 Net income 85,066 97,147 80,296 7,887 74,526 Earnings Per Share Data Diluted earnings per share $ 0.59 $ 0.68 $ 0.57 $ 0.06 $ 0.53 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 143,518 142,050 141,121 140,062 139,618 Operating Ratios % of net sales Gross profit 45.4 % 43.3 % 43.5 % 39.2 % 42.4 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 16.1 17.2 18.4 24.1 19.8 Engineering, research and development expenses 8.0 9.1 9.8 9.1 8.0 Amortization of intangible assets 3.3 3.8 4.4 3.9 1.3 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (0.1 ) (0.3 ) Operating income 18.0 13.2 10.9 2.2 13.6 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliate 13.8 10.2 8.5 (1.4 ) 13.9 Effective tax rate 54.0 19.0 11.1 161.1 22.5 Net income 6.3 8.3 7.4 0.8 10.7 Cash Flow Statement Data Depreciation and amortization $ 102,231 $ 99,886 $ 101,654 $ 83,704 $ 38,815 Capital expenditures 93,597 65,260 71,977 57,733 60,360 Net cash provided by operating activities 293,373 207,555 120,918 126,423 109,402 Net cash used in investing activities (112,455 ) (66,686 ) (63,638 ) (860,295 ) (47,029 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 27,251 (81,747 ) (92,787 ) 747,648 (3,895 ) Balance Sheet and Other Data Current assets $ 1,057,608 $ 800,131 $ 708,787 $ 763,604 $ 612,305 Current liabilities 290,971 261,571 175,550 262,520 97,585 Working capital 766,637 538,560 533,237 501,084 514,720 Current ratio 3.63 3.06 4.04 2.91 6.27 Long-term debt, including current maturities 674,380 584,677 656,044 753,012 Shareholders equity 993,018 899,218 802,883 748,441 756,843 Total assets 1,976,172 1,699,532 1,646,697 1,748,307 875,294 Return on average shareholders equity % 9.0 % 11.4 % 10.4 % 1.0 % 10.3 % Shares outstanding at end of year 141,283 141,320 140,716 139,793 138,734 27 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read along with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the Cautionary Statements sections of this Item 7 below. The Companys actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should review the Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Cautionary Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The words believe, expect, anticipate, intends, estimate, forecast, project, should, may, will, would or the negative thereof and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include those about future period guidance; projected sales, net income, net income per diluted share, non-GAAP EPS, non-GAAP net income and other financial metrics; our performance relative to our markets; market and technology trends, including the duration and drivers of any growth trends; the development of new products and the success of their introductions; the focus of our engineering, research and development projects; our ability to execute on our business strategies; our capital allocation strategy, which may be modified at any time for any reason, including share repurchases, dividends, debt repayments and potential acquisitions; the effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; future capital and other expenditures; the Companys expected tax rate; the impact of accounting pronouncements; and other matters. These forward-looking statements are based on current management expectations and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are not guarantees of future performance and involve substantial risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors and additional information described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption Risk Factors, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our other periodic filings. Except as required under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the SEC, we undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements contained herein. Overview This overview is not a complete discussion of the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations; it is intended merely to facilitate an understanding of the most salient aspects of its financial condition and operating performance and to provide a context for the detailed discussion and analysis that follows, and must be read in its entirety in order to fully understand the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Company is a leading global developer, manufacturer and supplier of microcontamination control products, specialty chemicals and advanced materials handling solutions for manufacturing processes in the semiconductor and other high-technology industries. Our mission is to leverage our unique breadth of capabilities to create value for our customers by developing mission-critical solutions to maximize manufacturing yields, reduce manufacturing costs and enable higher device performance. Our technology portfolio includes approximately 20,000 standard and customized products and solutions to achieve the highest levels of purity and performance that are essential to the manufacture of semiconductors, flat panel displays, light emitting diodes, or LEDs, high-purity chemicals, solar cells, gas lasers, optical and magnetic storage devices, and critical components for aerospace, glass manufacturing and biomedical applications. The majority of our products are consumed at various times throughout the manufacturing process, with demand driven in part by the level of semiconductor and other manufacturing activity. The Companys customers consist primarily of semiconductor manufacturers, semiconductor equipment and materials suppliers as well as thin film transistor-liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) and hard disk manufacturers, which are served through direct sales efforts, as well as sales and distribution relationships, in the United States, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Our business is organized and operated in three operating segments which align with the key elements of the advanced semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem. The Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials, or SCEM, segment provides high-performance and high-purity process chemistries, gases, and materials, and safe and efficient delivery systems to support semiconductor and other advanced manufacturing processes. The Microcontamination Control, or MC, segment offers solutions to filter and purify critical liquid chemistries and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes and other high-technology industries. The Advanced Materials Handling, or AMH, segment develops solutions to monitor, protect, transport, and deliver critical liquid chemistries, wafers and other substrates for a broad set of applications in the semiconductor 28 Table of Contents industry and other high-technology industries. While these segments have separate products and technical know-how, they share a global generalist sales force, common business systems and processes, technology centers, and strategic and technology roadmaps. We leverage our expertise from these three segments to create new and increasingly integrated solutions for our customers. See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Company's three segments. Key operating factors Key factors, which management believes have the largest impact on the overall results of operations of the Company, include: Level of sales Since a significant portion of the Companys product costs (except for raw materials, purchased components and direct labor) are largely fixed in the short-to-medium term, an increase or decrease in sales affects gross profits and overall profitability significantly. Also, increases or decreases in sales and operating profitability affect certain costs such as incentive compensation and commissions, which are highly variable in nature. The Companys sales are subject to the effects of industry cyclicality, technological change, substantial competition, pricing pressures and foreign currency fluctuation. Variable margin on sales The Companys variable margin on sales is determined by selling prices and the costs of manufacturing and raw materials. This is affected by a number of factors, which include the Companys sales mix, purchase prices of raw material (especially polymers, membranes, stainless steel and purchased components), domestic and international competition, direct labor costs, and the efficiency of the Companys production operations, among others. Fixed cost structure The Companys operations include a number of large fixed or semi-fixed cost components, which include salaries, indirect labor and benefits, facility costs, lease expenses, and depreciation and amortization. It is not possible to vary these costs easily in the short-term as volumes fluctuate. Accordingly, increases or decreases in sales volume can have a large effect on the usage and productivity of these cost components, resulting in a large impact on the Companys profitability. Overall Summary of Financial Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2017 Total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2017 were $1,342.5 million , up $167.3 million , or 14% , from sales of $1,175.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Exclusive of unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $0.9 million , the Company's sales increased 14% , reflecting an increase in overall demand for the Company's products from semiconductor industry customers, particularly in the sale of gas microcontamination filters, liquid chemistry filtration solutions and certain specialty materials products. The sales increase in 2017 was driven primarily by higher volume and the effect of selling price erosion was nominal. Semiconductor industry demand in 2017 was driven by improved demand from device makers, as wafer starts and semiconductor unit production increased, higher industry fab utilization rates, and increased capital spending levels. The Company believes sales of its products in 2017 exceeded the overall semiconductor industry growth rate. The Company's gross profit rose by $ 100.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , to $609.0 million , up from $508.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Accordingly, the Company reported a 45.4% gross margin rate compared to 43.3% in 2016 . The gross profit and gross margin figures in 2017 and 2016 included impairment charges of $6.1 million and $6.3 million, respectively, related to certain equipment-related impairment and severance charges. Excluding those charges, the Company's gross margin for 2017 was 45.8% and for 2016 was 43.8%. The Company's selling, general and administrative (SG&A) and engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses increased slightly in 2017 , mainly reflecting higher compensation costs of $7.5 million and impairment charges related to certain acquired intangible assets of $3.9 million. The Company's income tax expense increased significantly in 2017, primarily reflecting a one-time charge of $66.7 million related to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was enacted into legislation in December 2017. As a result of the aforementioned and other factors discussed below, net income for 2017 was $85.1 million , or $0.59 per diluted share, compared to net income of $97.1 million , or $0.68 per diluted share, in 2016 . On April 24, 2017, the Company acquired the microelectronic water and chemical filtration product line of W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc. for $20.0 million in cash as described in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The acquisition of these products complements our portfolio of advanced liquid filtration solutions. It also reflects our strategy to grow our served markets through the deployment of capital for strategic accretive acquisitions that augment our internal development initiatives. On October 18, 2017, the Company's Board of Directors declared an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share to be paid on November 22, 2017 to shareholders of record on the close of business on November 1, 2017. Future dividend declarations, if any, as well as the record and payment dates for such dividends, are subject to the final determination of the Company's Board of Directors. 29 Table of Contents In November 2017, the Company issued $550 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due February 10, 2026 (the 2026 Notes). The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to redeem all of its 6.000% senior unsecured notes due 2022 (the 2022 Notes), of which an aggregate principal amount of $360 million was currently outstanding as of immediately prior to the redemption, to pay fees and expenses related to the redemption and for general corporate purposes. The Company redeemed the 2022 Notes, at its option, at the redemption price of 104.5% (expressed as percentage of principal amount), plus accrued and unpaid interest of $2.5 million. The redemption of the 2022 Notes resulted in a loss on extinguishment of debt of $20.7 million. During 2017 , the Companys operating activities provided cash flow of $293.4 million . Cash and cash equivalents, and short-term investments were $625.4 million at December 31, 2017 compared with $406.4 million at December 31, 2016 . The Company had long-term borrowings, including current maturities, of $674.4 million at December 31, 2017 compared with $584.7 million at December 31, 2016 . Subsequent Events On January 22, 2018, the Company acquired Particle Sizing Systems, LLC ("PSS"), a company focused on particle sizing instrumentation for liquid applications in both semiconductor and life science industries. The total purchase price of the acquisition was approximately $37 million in cash, subject to customary working capital adjustments. The acquisition of PSS does not constitute a material business combination. On February 13, 2018, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program covering up to an aggregate of $100 million of the Companys common stock, during a period of twenty-four months, in open market transactions and in accordance with one or more pre-arranged stock trading plans to be established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. This repurchase program represents a further renewal of the repurchase program originally authorized by the Board of Directors on February 5, 2016 and first renewed on February 15, 2017. Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. At each balance sheet date, management evaluates its estimates, including, but not limited to, those related to long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, and identified intangibles), goodwill, income taxes and business combinations. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. If management made different judgments or utilized different estimates, this could result in material differences in the amount and timing of the Companys results of operations for any period. In addition, actual results could be different from the Companys current estimates, possibly resulting in increased future charges to earnings. The critical accounting policies affected most significantly by estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements are discussed below. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets As of December 31, 2017 , the Company had $359.5 million of net property, plant and equipment and $182.4 million of net intangible assets. The Company routinely considers whether indicators of impairment of the value of its long-lived assets, particularly its manufacturing equipment, and its intangible assets, are present. A long-lived asset (asset group) shall be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. The following are examples of such events or changes in circumstances: a. A significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset (asset group); b. A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset (asset group) is being used or in its physical condition; c. A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset (asset group), including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; d. An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset (asset group); e. A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset (asset group); and f. A current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset (asset group) will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 30 Table of Contents If such indicators are present, it is determined whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset group in question is less than its carrying value. If less, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets in the group over its respective fair value. Fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows, appraisals or other methods deemed appropriate. If the asset groups determined to be impaired are to be held and used, the Company recognizes an impairment charge to the extent the fair value attributable to the asset group is less than the assets carrying value. The fair value of the assets then becomes the assets new carrying value, which is depreciated or amortized over the remaining estimated useful life of the assets. The Companys long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level (asset groups) for which the identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. As described above, the evaluation of the recoverability of long-lived assets requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the identification of the asset group at the lowest level of independent cash flows, the primary asset of the group and long-range forecasts of revenue and costs, reflecting managements assessment of general economic and industry conditions, operating income, depreciation and amortization and working capital requirements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in the underlying assumptions would have a significant impact on the conclusion that an asset groups carrying value is recoverable, or the determination of any impairment charge if it was determined that the asset values were indeed impaired. The Company continually monitors circumstances and events to determine whether asset impairment testing is warranted. It is possible that in the future the Company may conclude that there is impairment of certain of its long-lived assets, and that significant impairment charges of long-lived assets may occur in future periods. Goodwill Goodwill is not subject to amortization and is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. The Company performs its annual impairment test as of August 31. The Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50%) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. If, after assessing qualitative factors, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then a two-step impairment test is performed to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized, if any. As of August 31, 2017, the Companys assessment of qualitative factors informed its conclusion that it was more likely than not that a goodwill impairment did not occur. The significant qualitative factors considered include a significant increase in the Companys share price, increasing revenues and operating cash flow for each of the Company's reporting units combined with solid demand in the semiconductor industry driven by the Internet of Things, virtual reality, autonomous car and artificial intelligence/machine learning applications. The Company noted that a significant number of its very largest customers purchase from all of the Companys reporting units. For example, approximately 25 customers, accounting for over 60% of net sales, purchase from all of the Companys reporting units. Income Taxes In the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements, the income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating the Companys ability to recover its deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, management considers all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, the Company begins with historical results adjusted for the results of discontinued operations and incorporates assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates management is using to manage the underlying business. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, the Company considers three years of cumulative operating income. The Company has deferred tax assets related to certain federal and state credit carryforwards, and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $18.0 million and $31.8 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Management believes it is more likely than not that the benefit from a portion of these carryforwards will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, the Company provided a valuation allowance of $17.5 million and $14.7 million as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, relating to these carryforwards. If the Companys assumptions change and it determines it will be able to realize these carryforwards, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets will be recognized as a reduction of income tax expense. 31 Table of Contents The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. A tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. U.S. Tax Reform On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act) was signed into law making significant changes to the Internal Revenue Code. Changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35 percent to 21 percent effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017, the transition of U.S international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial system, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of December 31, 2017. The Company has calculated its best estimate of the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in its year end income tax provision in accordance with management's understanding of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act and guidance available as of the date of this filing and as a result has recorded $66.7 million as additional income tax expense in the fourth quarter of 2017, the period in which the legislation was enacted. The amount related to the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on the rates at which they are expected to reverse in the future, was a benefit of $10.2 million. Included in this benefit are provisional amounts related to certain deferred tax assets and liabilities where the necessary information is not available, prepared or analyzed. Examples of this include fixed assets and compensation. The provisional expense related to the one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of foreign earnings was $73.0 million based on cumulative foreign earnings of $943.7 million. Additional expense of $4.0 million was recorded related to no longer asserting that a significant portion of the Company's earnings are considered indefinitely reinvested overseas. Business Acquisitions The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact net income. Accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from a third-party valuation firm. There are several methods that can be used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. For intangible assets, the Company normally utilizes the income method. This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows attributable to the subject intangible asset. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method (or other methods) include the projected future cash flows (including timing) and the discount rate reflecting the risks inherent in the future cash flows. Estimating the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. For example, different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives, influenced by the nature of the asset, competitive environment, and rate of change in the industry. Certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives. All of these judgments and estimates can significantly impact the determination of the amortization period of the intangible asset, and thus net income. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2017 compared to year ended December 31, 2016 The following table sets forth the results of operations and the relationship between various components of operations, stated as a percent of net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . The Companys historical financial data was derived 32 Table of Contents from its consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 % of net sales % of net sales Net sales $ 1,342,532 100.0 % $ 1,175,270 100.0 % Cost of sales 733,547 54.6 666,579 56.7 Gross profit 608,985 45.4 508,691 43.3 Selling, general and administrative expenses 216,194 16.1 201,901 17.2 Engineering, research and development expenses 106,951 8.0 106,991 9.1 Amortization of intangible assets 44,023 3.3 44,263 3.8 Operating income 241,817 18.0 155,536 13.2 Interest expense 32,343 2.4 36,846 3.1 Interest income (715 ) (0.1 ) (318 ) Other expense (income), net 25,458 1.9 (991 ) (0.1 ) Income before income taxes 184,731 13.8 119,999 10.2 Income tax expense 99,665 7.4 22,852 1.9 Net income $ 85,066 6.3 $ 97,147 8.3 Net sales For the year ended December 31, 2017 , net sales were $1,342.5 million , up $167.3 million , or 14% , from sales for the year ended December 31, 2016 . An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in net sales is presented in the following table: (In thousands) Net sales in 2016 $ 1,175,270 Organic growth associated with volume and pricing 164,505 Increase associated with liquid filtration product line acquisition 3,643 Decrease associated with effect of foreign currency translation (886 ) Net sales in 2017 $ 1,342,532 The Company's sales increase was due to strong across-the-board demand for the Company's products from semiconductor industry customers, reflecting both higher industry fab utilization and semiconductor industry capital spending compared to the year-ago period. This sales increase reflected improved sales of gas microcontamination filters, liquid chemistry filtration solutions and certain specialty materials products. Exclusive of the sales of the acquired liquid filtration product line of $3.6 million of revenue for 2017 and the unfavorable currency translation effects of $0.9 million for the year, mainly due to the weakening of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar, the Company's sales grew 14% in 2017 when compared to 2016 . On a geographic basis, in 2017 , total sales to Taiwan were 22% , to North America were 21% , to South Korea were 16% , to Japan were 13% , to China were 11% , to Europe were 9% and to Southeast Asia were 8% . In 2016 , total sales to Taiwan were 25% , to North America were 22% , to Japan were 13% , to South Korea were 12% , to China were 10% , to Europe were 9% , and to Southeast Asia were 9% . From 2016 to 2017 , net sales to customers in South Korea, China, Europe, North America, Japan and Southeast Asia increased 49% , 26% , 14% , 13% , 9% , and 6% , respectively, while net sales to customers in Taiwan were down 1% . Demand drivers for the Companys business primarily consist of semiconductor fab utilization and production (unit-driven) as well as capital spending for new or upgraded semiconductor fabrication equipment and facilities (capital-driven). The Company analyzes sales of its products by these two key drivers. Sales of unit-driven products represented 74% of total sales and sales of capital-driven products represented 26% of total sales in 2017 . This compares to a unit-driven to capital-driven ratio of 76% : 24% for 2016 . Gross profit Gross profit for 2017 increased by $100.3 million , to $609.0 million , an increase of 20% from $508.7 million for 2016 . The gross margin rate for 2017 was 45.4% versus 43.3% for 2016 . The gross profit and gross margin improvements reflect the improved factory utilization associated with strong sales levels, a slightly favorable sales mix and the absence of the qualification and start-up costs incurred at the Company's i2M center in the prior year period. These factors were partly offset by modest price erosion for certain products in response to normal competitive pressures. In addition, the gross profit and gross margin figures include impairment charges of $6.1 million and $6.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, related to equipment-related and severance charges. 33 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for the sales and administrative staff, professional fees (including accounting, legal and technology costs and expenses), and sales and marketing costs. SG&A expenses for 2017 increased $14.3 million , or 7% , to $216.2 million from $201.9 million in 2016 . SG&A expenses, as a percent of net sales, decreased to 16.1% from 17.2% a year earlier, reflecting the increase in net sales. An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in SG&A is presented in the following table: (In thousands) Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016 $ 201,901 Employee costs 7,455 Impairment charge related to acquired intangible assets 3,866 Other increases, net 2,972 Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2017 $ 216,194 Engineering, research and development expenses Engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses related to the support of current product lines and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies was $107.0 million in both 2017 and 2016 . ER&D expenses as a percent of net sales were 8.0% compared to 9.1% a year ago, reflecting the increase in net sales. The Companys overall ER&D efforts will continue to focus on the support or extension of current product lines, the development of its technologies to create differentiated and high-value products for the most advanced and demanding semiconductor applications and leveraging its unique and diverse technology portfolio to develop innovative, integrated solutions for unmet customer needs. The Company expects ER&D costs to stay relatively stable as a percentage of net sales. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets was $44.0 million in 2017 compared to $44.3 million for 2016 . The decline reflects the absence of amortization expense for certain identifiable trademark intangible assets acquired in the ATMI merger that became fully amortized in early 2017, offset by additional amortization expense from the liquid filtration product line acquisition in 2017. Interest expense Interest expense was $32.3 million and $36.8 million in the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Interest expense includes interest associated with debt outstanding and the amortization of debt issuance costs associated with such borrowings. The decrease in 2017 reflects lower average outstanding borrowings due to the Company's payments on the Term Loan in 2017. Other expense (income), net Other expense, net, was $25.5 million in 2017 compared to other income, net, of $1.0 million in 2016 . In 2017 , other expense, net, included an impairment charge of $2.8 million, a loss of extinguishment of debt of $20.7 million associated with the redemption of the Company's 2022 Notes (see note 7 to the Company's consolidated financial statements), and foreign currency transaction losses of $2.3 million. In 2016 , other income, net, included foreign currency transaction gains of $0.6 million and other gains of $0.4 million. Income tax expense The Company recorded income tax expense of $99.7 million in 2017 compared to income tax expense of $22.9 million in 2016 . The Companys effective tax expense rate was 54.0% in 2017 , compared to an effective tax rate of 19.0% in 2016 . The increase in the effective tax rate in 2017 from 2016 and the variance in both years from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% reflects several factors. The increase in the effective rate is primarily due to the recognition of the one-time mandatory repatriation transition tax of $73.0 million on the net accumulated earnings and profits of the Companys foreign subsidiaries and $4.0 million of incremental tax related to no longer asserting that a significant portion of the Companys undistributed earnings are considered indefinitely invested overseas. This increase was partially offset by the remeasurement of the U.S. deferred taxes for $10.2 million to reflect the lower U.S. federal tax rate and an increase in the federal research and development tax credit. The effective tax rates in both years reflect a greater concentration in the Company's geographic composition of income toward jurisdictions with lower tax rates than in the U.S. Net income Net income was $85.1 million , or $0.59 per diluted share, in 2017 compared to net income of $97.1 million , or $0.68 per diluted share, in 2016 . The decrease reflects the Company's aforementioned operating results described in greater detail above. Non-GAAP Measures Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial 34 Table of Contents measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. See Non-GAAP Information included below in this section for additional detail, including the reconciliation of GAAP measures to the Companys non-GAAP measures. The Companys non-GAAP financial measures are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income, together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). Adjusted EBITDA increased 35% to $357.1 million in 2017 , compared to $263.7 million in 2016 . Adjusted EBITDA, as a percent of net sales, was 26.6% in 2017 compared to 22.4% in 2016 . Adjusted Operating Income increased 44% to $298.9 million in 2017 , compared to $208.0 million in 2016 . Adjusted Operating Income, as a percent of net sales, was 22.3% in 2017 compared to 17.7% in 2016 . Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share increased 53% to $1.44 in 2017 , compared to $0.94 in 2016 . The improvement in the Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income reflect the increase in net sales and related increase in gross profit. In addition, Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was positively affected by a lower adjusted effective tax rate. Segment Analysis The following table and discussion concern the results of operations of the Companys three reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 . (In thousands) 2017 2016 Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials Net sales $ 485,470 $ 428,328 Segment profit 132,859 96,060 Microcontamination Control Net sales $ 436,225 $ 362,658 Segment profit 160,715 110,042 Advanced Materials Handling Net sales 420,837 384,284 Segment profit 77,971 73,452 Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials (SCEM) For the year ended December 31, 2017 , SCEM net sales increased to $485.5 million , up 13% , from $428.3 million in the comparable period last year. The sales increase primarily reflects strong product sales for specialty gases, glass forming products and advanced deposition materials. SCEM reported a segment profit of $132.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to a $96.1 million segment profit in the year-ago period. The increase in the SCEM's profit in 2017 was primarily due to increased sales, partially offset by higher operating expenses of 3% . Microcontamination Control (MC) For the year ended December 31, 2017 , MC net sales increased to $436.2 million , up 20% , from $362.7 million in the comparable period last year. The sales increase primarily reflects strength in photolithography applications, gas filter products, and liquid chemistry filters for wet, etch and clean driven by strong industry tool shipments. MC reported a segment profit of $160.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to a $110.0 million segment profit in the year-ago period. The increase in the MC's profit in 2017 reflects increased sales and the absence of the qualification and start-up costs incurred at the Company's i2M center in the year-ago period, partially offset by higher operating expenses of 1% . Advanced Materials Handling (AMH) For the year ended December 31, 2017 , AMH net sales increased 10% to $420.8 million , from $384.3 million in 2016 . The increase primarily reflects strong sales of wafer and reticle handling, wafter shipping and fluid handling products. AMH reported a segment profit of $78.0 million in 2017 , up 6% from $73.5 million in 2016 . The increase in the AMH's profit in 2017 was due to higher sales, partially offset by a 7% increase in operating expenses. Results in 2017 include impairment and severance charges of $7.5 million compared to $6.8 million a year ago. Unallocated general and administrative expenses Unallocated general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2017 totaled $85.7 million compared to $79.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The $6.0 million increase includes the $3.9 million impairment charge related to certain acquired intangible assets. 35 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2016 compared to year ended December 31, 2015 The following table sets forth the results of operations and the relationship between various components of operations, stated as a percent of net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. The Companys historical financial data was derived from its consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. (Dollars in thousands) 2016 2015 % of net sales % of net sales Net sales $ 1,175,270 100.0 % $ 1,081,121 100.0 % Cost of sales 666,579 56.7 610,890 56.5 Gross profit 508,691 43.3 470,231 43.5 Selling, general and administrative expenses 201,901 17.2 198,914 18.4 Engineering, research and development expenses 106,991 9.1 105,900 9.8 Amortization of intangible assets 44,263 3.8 47,349 4.4 Operating income 155,536 13.2 118,068 10.9 Interest expense 36,846 3.1 38,667 3.6 Interest income (318 ) (429 ) Other income, net (991 ) (0.1 ) (12,355 ) (1.1 ) Income before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliate 119,999 10.2 92,185 8.5 Income tax expense 22,852 1.9 10,202 0.9 Equity in net loss of affiliate 1,687 0.2 Net income $ 97,147 8.3 $ 80,296 7.4 Net sales For the year ended December 31, 2016, net sales were $1,175.3 million, up $94.1 million, or 9%, from sales for the year ended December 31, 2015. An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in net sales is presented in the following table: (In thousands) Net sales in 2015 $ 1,081,121 Organic growth associated with volume and pricing 80,375 Increase associated with effect of foreign currency translation 13,774 Net sales in 2016 $ 1,175,270 The Company's sales increase was due to improved demand for the Company's products from semiconductor industry customers, reflecting both higher industry fab utilization and semiconductor industry capital spending compared to the year-ago period. This sales increase reflected improved sales of 300mm transport modules, liquid chemistry filtration solutions and certain specialty materials products. Exclusive of favorable currency translation effects of $13.8 million for the year, mainly due to the strengthening of the Japanese yen relative to the U.S. dollar, the Company's sales grew 7% in 2016 when compared to 2015. On a geographic basis, in 2016, total sales to North America were 22%, to Asia Pacific were 56%, to Europe were 9% and to Japan were 13%. In 2015, total sales to North America were 23%, to Asia Pacific were 55%, to Europe were 10% and to Japan were 12%. From 2015 to 2016, net sales to customers in Japan and Asia Pacific increased, 19%, and 12%, respectively, while net sales to customers in North America and Europe were flat. Demand drivers for the Companys business primarily consist of semiconductor fab utilization and production (unit-driven) as well as capital spending for new or upgraded semiconductor fabrication equipment and facilities (capital-driven). The Company analyzes sales of its products by these two key drivers. Sales of unit-driven products represented 76% of total sales and sales of capital-driven products represented 24% of total sales in 2016. This compares to a unit-driven to capital-driven ratio of 78%:22% for 2015. 36 Table of Contents Gross profit Gross profit for 2016 increased by $38.5 million, to $508.7 million, an increase of 8% from $470.2 million for 2015. The gross margin rate for 2016 was 43.3% versus 43.5% for 2015. An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in gross profit is presented in the following table: (In thousands) Gross profit in 2015 $ 470,231 Growth associated with volume and pricing 44,717 Decrease associated with impairment of equipment and severance related to organization realignment (6,257 ) Gross profit in 2016 $ 508,691 The gross profit improvements primarily reflect the growth associated with volume and pricing, offset by charges related to the impairment of equipment and severance related to the organization realignment. Excluding the latter item, the Company's gross margin in 2016 was 43.8%. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for the sales and administrative staff, professional fees (including accounting, legal and technology costs and expenses), and sales and marketing costs. SG&A expenses for 2016 increased $3.0 million, or 2%, to $201.9 million from $198.9 million in 2015. SG&A expenses, as a percent of net sales, decreased to 17.2% from 18.4% a year earlier, reflecting the increase in net sales. An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in SG&A is presented in the following table: (In thousands) Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2015 $ 198,914 Integration costs recorded in prior year (12,667 ) Professional fees 2,335 Employee costs 12,962 Other increases, net 357 Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2016 $ 201,901 Engineering, research and development expenses Engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses related to the support of current product lines and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies increased by $1.1 million, or 1%, to $107.0 million in 2016 compared to $105.9 million in 2015. ER&D expenses as a percent of net sales were 9.1% compared to 9.8% a year ago, reflecting the increase in net sales, offset by the increase in ER&D expenditure levels, primarily due to higher employee costs. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets was $44.3 million in 2016 compared to $47.3 million for 2015. The decline reflects the absence of amortization expense for certain identifiable non-compete intangible assets acquired in the ATMI merger that became fully amortized in early 2016. Interest expense Interest expense was $36.8 million and $38.7 million in the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Interest expense includes interest associated with debt outstanding issued to help fund the acquisition of ATMI in 2014 and the amortization of debt issuance costs associated with such borrowings. The decrease in 2016 reflects lower outstanding borrowings due to the Company's payments on the Term Loan in 2016, offset partly by higher amortization of debt issuance costs due to the acceleration of actual and expected payments on the Company's Term Loan. Other income, net Other income, net, was $1.0 million in 2016 compared to other expense, net, of $12.4 million in 2015. In 2016, other income, net, included foreign currency transaction gains of $0.6 million and other gains of $0.4 million. In 2015, other income, net, included foreign currency transaction gains of $9.1 million and a gain of $3.4 million related to the sale of an equity investment. Income tax expense The Company recorded income tax expense of $22.9 million in 2016 compared to income tax expense of $10.2 million in 2015. The Companys effective tax expense rate was 19.0% in 2016, compared to an effective tax rate of 11.1% in 2015. The increase in the effective tax rate in 2016 from 2015 and the variance in both years from the U.S. statutory rate of 35% reflects several factors. The effective tax rates in both years reflects a greater concentration in the Company's geographic 37 Table of Contents composition of income toward jurisdictions with lower tax rates than in the U.S. In addition, the 2015 effective tax rate reflects the benefit of the Malaysian tax holiday which expired December 31, 2015. Net income Net income was $97.1 million, or $0.68 per diluted share, in 2016 compared to net income of $80.3 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, in 2015. The significant increase reflects the Company's aforementioned operating results described in greater detail above. Non-GAAP Measures Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. See Non-GAAP Information included below in this section for additional detail, including the reconciliation of GAAP measures to the Companys non-GAAP measures. The Companys non-GAAP financial measures are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income, together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). Adjusted EBITDA increased 13% to $263.7 million in 2016, compared to $232.4 million in 2015. Adjusted EBITDA, as a percent of net sales, was 22.4% in 2016 compared to 21.5% in 2015. Adjusted Operating Income increased 17% to $208.0 million in 2016, compared to $178.1 million in 2015. Adjusted Operating Income, as a percent of net sales, was 17.7% in 2016 compared to 16.5% in 2015. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share increased 11% to $0.94 in 2016, compared to $0.85 in 2015. The improvement in the Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income reflect the increase in net sales and related increase in gross profit. In addition, Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was positively affected by a lower adjusted effective tax rate. Segment Analysis The following table and discussion concern the results of operations of the Companys three reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. (In thousands) 2016 2015 Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials Net sales $ 428,328 $ 418,878 Segment profit 96,060 100,370 Microcontamination Control Net sales $ 362,658 $ 315,817 Segment profit 110,042 83,076 Advanced Materials Handling Net sales 384,284 346,426 Segment profit 73,452 66,419 Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials (SCEM) For the year ended December 31, 2016, SCEM net sales increased to $428.3 million, up 2%, from $418.9 million in the comparable period last year. The sales increase primarily reflects strong product sales for advanced deposition materials, with flat sales across the segment's other product lines. SCEM reported a segment profit of $96.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to a $100.4 million segment profit in the year-ago period. The decrease in the SCEM's profit in 2016 reflects lower margins reflecting unfavorable product mix and higher operating expenses of 2%. Microcontamination Control (MC) For the year ended December 31, 2016, MC net sales increased to $362.7 million, up 15%, from $315.8 million in the comparable period last year. The sales increase primarily reflects strength in liquid chemistry filters for wet, etch and clean and bulk photo applications and strength in gas filter products driven by strong industry tool shipments. MC reported a segment profit of $110.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to a $83.1 million segment profit in the year-ago period. The increase in the MC's profit in 2016 reflects the higher sales and improved plant utilization offset by higher operating expenses of 2%. Advanced Materials Handling (AMH) For the year ended December 31, 2016, AMH net sales increased 11% to $384.3 million, from $346.4 million in 2015. The increase primarily reflects strong sales of 300mm transport modules, fluid handling solutions and containers. AMH reported a segment profit of $73.5 million in 2016, up 11% from $66.4 million in 2015. The increase in the AMH's profit in 2016 was due to higher sales and its associated slightly favorable sales mix, offset by a 10% increase in operating expenses. 38 Table of Contents Unallocated general and administrative expenses Unallocated general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 totaled $79.8 million compared to $84.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $4.7 million decline includes the absence of integration expenses of $12.7 million, offset by the increased employee and severance costs and higher professional fees noted above. 39 Table of Contents Quarterly Results of Operations The following table presents selected data from the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2017 . This unaudited information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report. All adjustments that management considers necessary for the fair presentation of the unaudited information have been included in the quarters presented. QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA 2016 2017 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 (In thousands) Net sales $ 267,024 $ 303,052 $ 296,692 $ 308,502 $ 317,377 $ 329,002 $ 345,591 $ 350,562 Gross profit 114,706 139,205 122,980 131,800 139,596 150,303 155,407 163,679 Selling, general and administrative expenses 47,956 53,597 51,614 48,734 50,492 52,985 57,699 55,018 Engineering, research and development expenses 25,902 28,146 25,720 27,223 27,239 27,221 26,002 26,489 Amortization of intangible assets 11,289 11,062 10,974 10,938 10,945 11,007 11,051 11,020 Operating income 29,559 46,400 34,672 44,905 50,920 59,090 60,655 71,152 Net income (loss) 16,212 32,890 21,947 26,098 32,514 39,991 40,902 (28,341 ) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 (Percent of net sales) Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit 43.0 45.9 41.5 42.7 44.0 45.7 45.0 46.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses 18.0 17.7 17.4 15.8 15.9 16.1 16.7 15.7 Engineering, research and development expenses 9.7 9.3 8.7 8.8 8.6 8.3 7.5 7.6 Amortization of intangibles 4.2 3.7 3.7 3.5 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.1 Operating income 11.1 15.3 11.7 14.6 16.0 18.0 17.6 20.3 Net income (loss) 6.1 10.9 7.4 8.5 10.2 12.2 11.8 (8.1 ) The Companys quarterly results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a myriad of factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control. The variability in sales, and its corresponding effect on gross profit, are generally the most important factors underlying the changes in the Companys operating income and net income over the past eight quarters. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has historically financed its operations and capital requirements through cash flow from its operating activities, long-term loans, lease financing and borrowings under domestic and international short-term lines of credit. In fiscal 2000 and 2009, the Company raised capital via public offerings of its common stock. Operating activities Net cash flow provided by operating activities totaled $293.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Cash generated by the Companys operations included net income of $85.1 million , as adjusted for the impact of various non-cash charges, most notably depreciation and amortization of $102.2 million , and share-based compensation expense of $15.3 million . These operating cash flows were partly offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities, mainly due to an increase in accounts receivables and inventories, an increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and an increase in income taxes payable and refundable income taxes, primarily from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Working capital was $766.6 million at December 31, 2017 , which included $625.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, an increase from $538.6 million as of December 31, 2016 , which included $406.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. Accounts receivable increased by $17.8 million during 2017 , or $15.4 million after accounting for the effect of foreign currency translation. The net increase reflects the year-over-year increase in fourth quarter sales of the Companys products. The Companys days sales outstanding measure (DSO) stood at 48 days at December 31, 2017 compared to 49 days at the beginning of the year. Inventories at December 31, 2017 increased by $14.6 million from a year earlier, or $20.2 million after accounting for foreign currency translation and the provision for excess and obsolete inventory. The net increase reflects higher levels of all categories of inventory, due to higher sales and production activity. 40 Table of Contents Accounts payable and accrued liabilities were $23.0 million higher than a year ago, or $16.0 million higher after accounting for the effect of foreign currency translation. The increase reflects higher accounts payable associated with increased levels of business activity and higher accrued bonuses in 2017. Investing activities Cash flow used in investing activities totaled $112.5 million in 2017 . Acquisition of property and equipment totaled $93.6 million , which primarily reflected investments in equipment and tooling. Capital expenditures in 2017 generally reflected more normalized capital spending levels. The Company expects its capital expenditures in 2018 to be approximately $ 100 to $110 million . On April 24, 2017, the Company acquired the microelectronic water and chemical filtration product line of W.L. Gore & Associates, Inc. The purchase price for the product line included cash considerations of $20.0 million, funded from the Company's existing cash on hand. The transaction is described in further detail in note 2 to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Financing activities Cash flow provided by financing activities totaled $27.3 million during 2017 . In November 2017, the Company issued debt with a principal amount of $550 million of 4.625% senior unsecured notes due February 10, 2026 (the "2026 Notes"). The Company used the net proceeds of the offering to redeem all of the Company's 6.0% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes"), to pay fees and expenses related to the redemption and for general corporate purposes. Debt issuance costs of $7.1 million paid to third parties are capitalized as debt issuance costs. The Company redeemed its $360 million aggregate principal amount of 2022 Notes, at its option, at the redemption price of 104.5% (expressed as percentage of principal amount), plus accrued and unpaid interest of $2.5 million. The redemption of the 2022 Notes resulted in a loss of extinguishment of debt of $20.7 million. The Company made payments of $100.0 million on its senior secured term loan facility due 2021 (the "Term Loan"). On April 30, 2014, the Company entered into the Term Loan that provided senior secured financing of $460 million. Borrowings under the Term Loan bear interest at a rate per annum equal to, at the Companys option, a base rate (such as prime rate or LIBOR) plus, an applicable margin. The Company may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans under the Term Loan at any time. During the first quarter of 2017, the Company and its lenders agreed to an amendment of the credit agreement governing the Term Loan that decreases the applicable margin for the Companys term loan from 2.75% to 2.25% per annum for LIBOR borrowings, with a LIBOR floor of 0.0%, and from 1.75% to 1.25% per annum for base rate borrowings, with a base rate floor of 1.00%. The principal amount outstanding under the Term Loan at December 31, 2017 was $133.9 million. Based on management's plans and intent, the Company reflects $100 million of the Term Loan as current maturities of long-term debt in its consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017. The Company has a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility maturing April 30, 2019 (the "ABL Facility") that provides financing of $75 million, subject to a borrowing base. As of December 31, 2017 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings and $0.2 million undrawn on outstanding letters of credit under the ABL Facility. Through December 31, 2017 , the Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants included in the terms of indenture governing its 2026 Notes and the credit agreements governing its Term Loan and ABL Facility. The Company also has a line of credit with two banks that provide for borrowings of Japanese yen for the Companys Japanese subsidiary equivalent to an aggregate of approximately $10.7 million . There were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit at December 31, 2017 . In addition, the Company repurchased shares of the Company's common stock during 2016 at a total cost of $28.0 million under the stock repurchase program authorized by the Company's Board of Directors. In the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company declared and paid an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share, totaling $9.9 million. The Company received proceeds of $5.6 million in connection with common shares issued under the Companys stock plans less $5.9 million paid for taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards. At December 31, 2017 , the Companys shareholders equity stood at $993.0 million , up 10% from $899.2 million at the beginning of the year. The 2017 increase reflects net income of $85.1 million , additional paid-in capital of $15.3 million associated with the Companys share-based compensation expense and favorable foreign currency translation effects of $29.3 million mainly associated with the weakening of the U.S. dollar versus the Korean won. These increases to shareholders equity were partly offset by cash dividends paid of $9.9 million and the repurchase and retirement of the Company's stock of $28.0 million . As of December 31, 2017 , the Companys sources of available funds were its cash and cash equivalents of $625.4 million , funds available under the ABL Facility and international credit facilities and cash flow generated from operations. As of December 31, 2017, the amount of cash and cash equivalents held in certain of our foreign operations totaled approximately $356.5 million . As a result of U.S. tax reform, the $356.5 million held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was subject to current tax in 41 Table of Contents the U.S. in 2017. As of December 31, 2017, we had not repatriated any of these funds to the U.S. However, to the extent we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued provisional taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S. The Company believes its existing balances of domestic cash and cash equivalents and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet the Companys domestic cash needs arising in the ordinary course of business for the next twelve months. If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet the Companys operating and debt service obligations as they come due, management would need to pursue alternative arrangements through additional equity or debt financing in order to meet the Companys cash requirements. There can be no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. New Accounting Pronouncements Recently adopted accounting pronouncements Refer to note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of accounting pronouncements implemented in 2017 . Other than the adoption of ASU 2016-09, there were no recently issued accounting pronouncements adopted in 2017 . Recently issued accounting pronouncements Refer to note 1 of the Company's consolidated financial statements for a discussion of accounting pronouncements recently issued but not yet adopted. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the maturities of the Companys significant financial obligations as of December 31, 2017 : (In thousands) Total 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Long-term debt 1 $ 683,850 $ $ $ $ 133,850 $ $ 550,000 Interest 2 223,396 30,549 30,549 30,549 27,141 25,438 79,170 Pension obligations 6,774 102 103 205 186 437 5,741 Capital lease obligations 6,000 750 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,000 1,250 Capital purchase obligations 3 2,259 2,259 Operating leases 42,557 9,805 7,663 5,015 4,911 3,369 11,794 Total $ 964,836 $ 43,465 $ 39,315 $ 36,769 $ 167,088 $ 30,244 $ 647,955 Unrecognized tax benefits 4 1 Debt obligations are classified based on their stated maturity date, regardless of their classification on the Companys consolidated balance sheets. 2 Interest projections on both variable and fixed rate long-term debt are based on interest rates effective as of December 31, 2017 and do not include $9.5 million for net unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs. 3 Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They were not recorded as liabilities on the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2017 , as the Company had not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property. 4 The Company had $12.6 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2017 . The timing of any payments associated with these unrecognized tax benefits will depend on a number of factors. Accordingly, the Company cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the amount and period of potential cash settlements, if any, with taxing authorities and are not included in the table above. Non-GAAP Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also provides certain non-GAAP financial measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. The Company provides non-GAAP financial measures of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income before (1) equity in net loss of affiliate, (2) income tax expense, (3) interest expense (4) interest income (5) other expense (income), net, (6) integration costs, (7) 42 Table of Contents severance related to organizational realignment, (8) impairment of equipment and intangibles, (9) amortization of intangible assets and (10) depreciation. Adjusted Operating Income, another non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as Adjusted EBITDA exclusive of the depreciation addback noted above. The Company also utilizes non-GAAP measures whereby Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income are each divided by the Companys net sales to derive Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Adjusted Operating Margin, respectively. Non-GAAP EPS, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income before (1) integration costs, (2) severance (3) impairment of equipment and intangibles, (4) loss on debt extinguishment (5) net gain on impairment/sale of short-term and equity investment, (6) amortization of intangible assets, (7) the tax effect of those adjustments to net income and discrete tax items and (8) the tax effect of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The integration costs adjustments underlying Adjusted EBITDA and Non-GAAP EPS relate specifically to the 2014 ATMI acquisition. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to better understand and manage its business and believes these measures provide investors and analysts additional and meaningful information for the assessment of the Companys ongoing results. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures to assist in the evaluation of the performance of its business segments and to make operating decisions. Management believes the Companys non-GAAP measures help indicate the Companys baseline performance before certain gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of the Companys business or future outlook and offer a useful view of business performance in that the measures provide a more consistent means of comparing performance. The Company believes the non-GAAP measures aid investors overall understanding of the Companys results by providing a higher degree of transparency for such items and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how management plans, measures and evaluates the Companys business performance. Management believes that the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates investors understanding of the Companys historical operating trends by providing an additional basis for comparisons to prior periods. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income to assist it in evaluations of the Companys operating performance by excluding items that management does not consider as relevant in the results of its ongoing operations. Internally, these non-GAAP measures are used by management for planning and forecasting purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies; and for evaluating the Companys capacity to fund capital expenditures, secure financing and expand its business. In addition, and as a consequence of the importance of these non-GAAP financial measures in managing its business, the Companys Board of Directors uses non-GAAP financial measures in the evaluation process to determine management compensation. The Company believes that certain analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Operating Income and non-GAAP EPS as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of firms in the Companys industry. Additionally, lenders or potential lenders use Adjusted EBITDA measures to evaluate the Companys creditworthiness. The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP. Management strongly encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Management notes that the use of non-GAAP measures has limitations: First, non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized. Accordingly, the methodology used to produce the Companys non-GAAP financial measures is not computed under GAAP and may differ notably from the methodology used by other companies. For example, the Companys non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be directly comparable to EBITDA or an adjusted EBITDA measure reported by other companies. Second, the Companys non-GAAP financial measures exclude items such as amortization and depreciation that are recurring. Amortization of intangibles and depreciation have been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense with an impact upon the Companys results of operations, notwithstanding the lack of immediate impact upon cash flows. Third, there is no assurance the Company will not have future restructuring activities, gains or losses on sale of equity investments, contingent consideration fair value adjustments or similar items and, therefore, may need to record additional charges (or credits) associated with such items, including the tax effects thereon. The exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an implication that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. 43 Table of Contents Management considers these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures and evaluating these non-GAAP financial measures together with their most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The calculations of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted operating income, and non-GAAP EPS, and reconciliations between these financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP equivalents are presented below in the accompanying tables. The reconciliation of GAAP measures to Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 Net sales $ 1,342,532 $ 1,175,270 $ 1,081,121 Net income $ 85,066 $ 97,147 $ 80,296 Adjustments to net income Equity in net loss of affiliate 1,687 Income tax expense 99,665 22,852 10,202 Interest expense 32,343 36,846 38,667 Interest income (715 ) (318 ) (429 ) Other expense (income), net 25,458 (991 ) (12,355 ) GAAP Operating income 241,817 155,536 118,068 Integration costs 12,667 Severance related to organizational realignment 2,700 2,405 Impairment of equipment and intangibles 1 10,400 5,826 Amortization of intangible assets 44,023 44,263 47,349 Adjusted operating income 298,940 208,030 178,084 Depreciation 58,208 55,623 54,305 Adjusted EBITDA $ 357,148 $ 263,653 $ 232,389 Adjusted operating margin 22.3 % 17.7 % 16.5 % Adjusted EBITDA as a % of net sales 26.6 % 22.4 % 21.5 % 1 Includes product line impairment charges of $5,330 and $5,826 classified as cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Includes intangible impairment charge of $3,866 classified as selling general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. Includes product line impairment charge of $320 classified as selling general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. Includes product line impairment charge of $884 classified as engineering, research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. The reconciliation of GAAP measures to Non-GAAP Earnings per Share for the years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 are presented below: 44 Table of Contents (Dollars in thousands) 2017 2016 2015 Net income $ 85,066 $ 97,147 $ 80,296 Adjustments to net income: Integration costs 12,667 Severance 2,700 2,405 Impairment of equipment and intangibles 1 13,200 5,826 Loss on debt extinguishment 20,687 Net gain on impairment/sale of short-term investment or equity investment (156 ) (1,449 ) Amortization of intangible assets 44,023 44,263 47,349 Tax effect of adjustments to net income and discrete tax items 2 (26,046 ) (16,637 ) (18,248 ) Tax effect of Tax Cuts and Jobs Act 66,713 Non-GAAP net income $ 206,343 $ 132,848 $ 120,615 Diluted earnings per common share $ 0.59 $ 0.68 $ 0.57 Effect of adjustments to net income $ 0.85 $ 0.25 $ 0.29 Diluted non-GAAP earnings per common share $ 1.44 $ 0.94 $ 0.85 1 Includes product line impairment charges of $5,330 and $5,826 classified as cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Includes intangible impairment charge of $3,866 classified as selling general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. Includes product line impairment charge of $320 classified as selling general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. Includes product line impairment charge of $884 classified as engineering, research and development expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. Includes product line impairment charge of $2,800 classified as other expense for the year ended December 31, 2017. 2 The tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments was calculated using the applicable marginal tax rate during the respective years.