Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis below for a 12 Table of Contents discussion of revenue and segment profitability with respect to each of these reporting segments, which discussion is incorporated herein by reference. See also note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. Further, in 2014, 2013 and 2012 approximately 75% , 71% and 69% , respectively, of our net sales were made to customers outside North America. Industry and geographic segment information is also discussed in note 15 to the Entegris, Inc. consolidated financial statements (the Financial Statements) included in response to Item 8 below, which note is incorporated herein by reference. OTHER INFORMATION On July 27, 2005, our Board of Directors adopted a shareholder rights plan (the Rights Plan) pursuant to which Entegris declared a dividend on August 8, 2005 to its shareholders of record on that date of one preferred share purchase right (a Right) for each share of Entegris common stock owned on August 8, 2005 and authorized the issuance of Rights in connection with future issuances of Entegris common stock. Each Right entitles the holder to purchase one-hundredth of a share of a series of preferred stock at an exercise price of $50, subject to adjustment as provided in the Rights Plan. The Rights Plan is designed to protect Entegris shareholders from attempts by others to acquire Entegris on terms or by using tactics that could deny all shareholders the opportunity to realize the full value of their investment. The Rights are attached to the shares of our common stock until certain triggering events specified in the Rights Agreement occur, including, unless approved by our board of directors, an acquisition by a person or group of specified levels of beneficial ownership of our common stock or a tender offer for our common stock. Upon the occurrence of any of these triggering events, the Rights authorize the holders to purchase at the then-current exercise price for the Rights that number of shares of our common stock having a market value equal to twice the exercise price. The Rights are redeemable by us for $0.01 and will expire on August 8, 2015. One of the events that would trigger the Rights is the acquisition, or commencement of a tender offer, by a person (an Acquiring Person, as defined in the shareholder rights plan), other than Entegris or any of our subsidiaries or employee benefit plans, of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of our common stock. An Acquiring Person may not exercise a Right. Entegris products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available in quantity from alternate sources of supply. However, certain materials included in the Companys products, such as certain filtration membranes, polymer resins and petroleum coke used by our Critical Materials Handling segment are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. Our Electronic Materials segment uses a broad range of specialty and commodity chemicals and polymers in the development of its products, including parts and sub-assemblies that are obtained from outside suppliers. We seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials. Likewise, we may, in some instances, rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for some of the materials used by our Electronic Materials segment, however, we have not experienced any sustained interruption in production or the supply of materials to our Electronic Materials segment, and we do not anticipate any significant difficulties in obtaining the materials necessary to manufacture these products. Although the Company seeks to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could interrupt our manufacturing operations and result in an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations. Furthermore, a significant increase in the price of one or more of these components could also adversely affect the Companys results of operations. OUR HISTORY Effective April 30, 2014, the Company completed the acquisition of ATMI, Inc., a Delaware corporation based in Danbury, CT, for a cash purchase price of $34.00 per ATMI share pursuant to a merger transaction in which ATMI, Inc. became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. ATMI, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1997, and its predecessor company was incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1987. Effective August 6, 2005 Entegris, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and Mykrolis Corporation, a Delaware corporation, completed a strategic merger of equals transaction, pursuant to which they were each merged into the Company to carry on the combined businesses. Entegris Minnesota was incorporated in June 1999 to effect the business combination of Fluoroware, Inc., which began operating in 1966, and EMPAK, Inc., which began operating in 1980. Mykrolis was organized as a Delaware corporation on October 16, 2000 under the name Millipore MicroElectronics, Inc. in connection with the spin-off by Millipore Corporation of its microelectronics business unit which was completed on February 27, 2002. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT The following is a list, as of January 31, 2015, of our Executive Officers. All of the Corporate Officers listed below were elected to serve until the first Directors Meeting following the 2015 Annual Stockholders Meeting. 13 Table of Contents Name Age Office First Appointed To Office* CORPORATE OFFICERS Bertrand Loy 49 President & Chief Executive Officer 2001 Gregory B. Graves 54 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer & Treasurer 2002 Peter W. Walcott 68 Senior Vice President , Secretary & General Counsel 2001 John J. Murphy 62 Senior Vice President, Human Resources 2005 Todd Edlund 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 2007 Christian F. Kramer 52 Senior Vice President, Chief Commercial Officer 2014 William Shaner 47 Senior Vice President, Global Operations 2007 Corey Rucci 55 Vice President, Business Development 2014 Gregory Marshall 58 Vice President, Quality and EH&S 2011 Michael D. Sauer 49 Vice President, Controller & Chief Accounting Officer 2011 * With either the Company or a predecessor company Bertrand Loy has served as our Chief Executive Officer, President and a director since November 2012. Prior to his promotion, Mr. Loy served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since 2008. From August 2005 until July 2008, he served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer in charge of our global supply chain and manufacturing operations. He served as the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Mykrolis from January 2001 until August 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Loy served as the Chief Information Officer of Millipore Corporation during 1999 and 2000. From 1995 until 1999, he served as the Division Controller for Millipores Laboratory Water Division. From 1989 until 1995, Mr. Loy served Sandoz Pharmaceuticals (now Novartis) in a variety of financial, audit and controller positions located in Europe, Central America and Japan. Mr. Loy served as a director of BTU International, Inc., (supplier of advanced thermal processing equipment) until its acquisition in January of 2015. He also serves as a director of Harvard Bioscience, Inc. (scientific equipment) since November of 2014. Gregory B. Graves has served as our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2008. Prior to that he served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since April 2007. Prior to April 2007, he served as Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning & Business Development since the effectiveness of the merger with Mykrolis. Mr. Graves served as the Chief Business Development Officer of Entegris Minnesota since September 2002 and from September 2003 until August 2004 he also served as Senior Vice President of Finance. Prior to joining Entegris Minnesota, Mr. Graves held positions in investment banking and corporate development, including at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray from June 1998 to August 2002 and at Dain Rauscher from October 1996 to May 1998. Peter W. Walcott has been our Senior Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since the effectiveness of the merger with Mykrolis. He served as the Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel of Mykrolis since October 2000. Mr. Walcott served as the Assistant General Counsel of Millipore Corporation from 1981 until March 2001. John J. Murphy joined us as our Senior Vice President, Human Resources in October 2005. He served as the Senior Vice President Human Resources of HNTB, an engineering and architectural services firm, from February 2004 until October 2005 and as Corporate Vice President, Human Resources of Cadence Design Systems, Inc. from May 2000 through October 2003. Prior to that Mr. Murphy held senior human resources positions with Williams Companies L.M. Ericsson Telephone Company and General Electric Company. Todd Edlund has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since November 2014. Prior to that he was Senior Vice President and General Manager of our Critical Materials Handling business and prior to the merger with ATMI, Inc. he was the Vice President and General Manager of our Contamination Control Solutions Division since December 2007. He served as the Vice President and General Manager of our Liquid Systems Business Unit from 2005 to 2007, and prior to that as Entegris Minnesotas Vice President of Sales for semiconductor markets from 2003 to 2005. Prior to 2003, Mr. Edlund held a variety of positions with our predecessor companies since 1995. Christian F. Kramer has been our Senior Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer since November of 2014; prior to that he served as Senior Vice President , General Manager, of our Electronic Materials businesses since our merger with ATMI, Inc. Prior to that Mr. Kramer served ATMI, Inc as Senior Vice President and General Manager, Microelectronics, since February 2013. Mr. Kramer joined ATMI in 2010 and, through 2012, served as Senior Vice President of ATMI Material Solutions. Prior to joining ATMI, Mr. Kramer was Vice President, Global Strategic Account Management for Tokyo Electron America, a global manufacturer 14 Table of Contents of capital equipment used in the semiconductor industry, from 1998 through 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Kramer held various commercial leadership positions in the semiconductor industry. William Shaner has been our Senior Vice President Global Operations since February 2014. Previously he served as our Vice President and General Manager, Microenvironments Division since 2007. He has served in a variety of sales, marketing, business development and engineering roles since joining Entegris in 1995. Gregory Marshall has been our Vice President of Quality and EH&S since March of 2010. Prior to that he served as our Global Director of Quality since the merger with Mykrolis Corporation, prior to which he served as the Director of Quality for Mykrolis. Prior to joining Mykrolis Mr. Marshall served and the Director of US Quality for Kokusai Semiconductor Equipment Corporation . Corey Rucci assumed his current position of Vice President Business Development in February 2014. Prior to that he served as Vice President and General Manager of our Specialty Materials Division since 2011 and as General Manager of Poco Graphite, Inc. (Poco) since 2008 when we acquired Poco. Prior to joining Entegris, Mr. Rucci served Poco as the President and Chief Operating Officer since 2007, Chief Operating Officer since 2005, Chief Financial Officer since 2001 and Vice President of Business Development since 1998. Prior to that he worked at UNOCAL Corp. for 17 years in a variety of accounting, marketing and business development roles. Michael D. Sauer has been our Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since June 2012. Prior to that, he served as the Corporate Controller since 2008. From the time of the merger with Mykrolis until April 2008, Mr. Sauer served as Director of Treasury and Risk Management. Mr. Sauer joined Fluoroware, Inc., a predecessor to Entegris Minnesota in 1988 and held a variety of finance and accounting positions until 2001 when he became the Director of Business Development for Entegris Minnesota, the successor to Fluoroware, serving in that position until the merger with Mykrolis. Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to our Business and Industry The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical, and industry downturns reduce net sales and profits. Our business depends on the purchasing patterns of semiconductor manufacturers, which, in turn, depend on the current and anticipated demand for semiconductors and products utilizing semiconductors. The semiconductor industry has historically been highly cyclical with periodic significant downturns, which often have resulted in significantly decreased expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. Even moderate cyclicality can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from one period to the next. We have in the past experienced significant revenue deterioration and incurred significant operating losses due to a severe downturn in both the capital and unit-driven segments of the semiconductor industry. We are unable to predict the ultimate duration and severity of future downturns for the semiconductor industry. Furthermore, in periods of reduced demand, we must continue to maintain a satisfactory level of engineering, research and development expenditures and continue to invest in our infrastructure. At the same time, we have to manage our operations to be able to respond to any significant increases in demand, if they occur. In addition, because we typically do not have significant backlog, changes in order patterns have a more immediate impact on our revenues. We expect the semiconductor industry to continue to be cyclical. During downturns our revenue is reduced, and there is likely to be an increase in pricing pressure and shifts in product and customer mix, all of which may affect gross margin and net income. Such fluctuations in our results could cause our stock price to decline significantly. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid demand shifts, which are difficult to predict. As a result, our inability to meet demand in response to these rapid shifts may cause a reduction in our market share. Our ability to increase sales of our products, particularly our capital equipment products, depends in part upon our ability to ramp up the use of our manufacturing capacity for such products in a timely manner and to quickly mobilize our supply chain. In order to meet the demands of our customers, we may be required to ramp up our manufacturing capacity in as little as a few months. If we are unable to expand our manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or manage such expansion effectively, our customers could seek such products from other suppliers, and our market share could be reduced. Because demand shifts in the semiconductor industry are rapid and difficult to foresee, we may not be able to increase capacity quickly enough to respond to any such increase in demand. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to accurately forecast demand for our products. We typically operate our business on a just-in-time shipment basis with a modest level of backlog and we order supplies and plan production based on internal forecasts of demand. Due to these factors, we have, in the past, and may again in the future, fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, in terms of both volume and specific products for which there will be demand. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delays in product shipments, disappointment of customer expectations, or, alternatively, an increased risk of excess inventory and of inventory obsolescence. If we fail to accurately forecast demand for our products, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Semiconductor industry up-cycles may not reach historic levels and instead may reflect a lower rate of long-term growth. There may not be new high-opportunity applications to drive growth in the semiconductor industry, as was the case in earlier market cycles. Accordingly, the semiconductor industry may experience lower growth rates during any recovery cycle than has historically been the case and its longer-term performance may reflect this lower growth rate. We are unable to predict the duration or ultimate severity of any downturn or the growth rate of any recovery cycle that may follow. If we are unable to maintain our technological expertise in design and manufacturing processes, we will not be able to successfully compete. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. Because of this, the life cycle of our products is difficult to determine. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to develop and provide products that meet the changing needs of our customers, including the shrinking of integrated circuit line-widths and the use of new classes of materials, such as copper, titanium nitride and organic and inorganic dielectric materials, which are materials that have either a low or high resistance to the flow of electricity. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. Any inability to develop the technical specifications for any of our new products or enhancements to our existing products or to manufacture and ship these products or enhancements in volume in a timely manner could harm our business prospects and significantly reduce our sales. In addition, if new products have reliability or quality problems, we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment, additional service and warranty expense, and damage to our reputation. Our sales are somewhat concentrated on a small number of key customers and, therefore, our net sales and profitability may materially decline if one or more of our key customers does not continue to purchase our existing and new products in significant quantities. We depend and expect to continue to depend on a limited number of customers for a large portion of our business, and changes in several customers orders could have a significant impact on our operating results. Our top ten customers accounted for 42% , 34% and 36% of our net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. If any one of our key customers decides to purchase significantly less from us or to terminate its relationship with us, our net sales and profitability may decline significantly. We could also lose our key customers or significant sales to our key customers because of factors beyond our control, such as a significant disruption in our customers businesses generally or in a specific product line. These customers may stop incorporating our products into their products with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty for doing so. The semiconductor industry is currently undergoing consolidation with a number of major firms merging or being acquired. If any of our customers merge or are acquired, we may experience lower overall sales from the merged or surviving companies. Because one of our strategies has been to develop long-term relationships with key customers in the product areas in which we focus, and because we have a long product design and development cycle for most of our products and prospective customers typically require lengthy product qualification periods prior to placing volume orders, we may be unable to replace these customers quickly or at all. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties and many of our costs are fixed, and, therefore, any significant changes, cancellations or deferrals of orders or shipments could cause our net sales and profitability to decline or fluctuate. We do not usually obtain long-term purchase orders or commitments from our customers. Instead, we work closely with our customers to develop non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for reasons beyond our control. Order cancellations or deferrals could cause us to hold inventory for longer than anticipated, which could reduce our profitability, restrict our ability to fund our operations and cause us to incur unanticipated reductions or delays in our revenue. Our customers often change their orders multiple times between initial order and delivery. Such changes usually relate to quantities or delivery dates, but sometimes relate to the specifications of the products we are supplying. If a customer does not pay for these products, we could incur significant charges against our income. In addition, our profitability may be affected by the generally fixed nature of our costs. Because a substantial portion of our costs is fixed, we may experience deterioration in gross margins when volumes decline. Competition from existing or new companies in the microelectronics industry could cause us to experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We compete against many domestic and foreign companies that have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have more developed relationships with our existing customers than we do, which may enable them 16 Table of Contents to have their products specified for use more frequently by these customers. We also face competition from the manufacturing operations of our current and potential customers, who continually evaluate the benefits of internal manufacturing versus outsourcing. As more OEMs dispose of their manufacturing operations and increase the outsourcing of their products to liquid and gas delivery system and other component companies, we may face increasing competitive pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and a loss of market share. Further, we expect that existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products or more efficient production of existing products by our competitors could diminish our market share and increase pricing pressure on our products. Further, customers continue to demand lower prices, shorter delivery times and enhanced product capability. If we do not respond adequately to such pressures, we could lose customers or orders. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could experience pricing pressures, reduced gross margins and order cancellation, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The limited market acceptance of our 300 mm shipper products as well as our other products could continue to harm our operating results. The broad adoption of 300 mm wafers has contributed to the increasing complexity of the semiconductor manufacturing process. The greater diameter of these wafers requires higher tooling costs and presents more complex handling, storage and transportation challenges. We have made and continue to make substantial investments in our 300 mm wafer shipping products, but there is no guarantee that a sufficient number of our customers will adopt our 300 mm wafer shipping product lines. Sales of our shipping products for these applications has, to date been, and could continue in the future to be modest, and we might not recover our development costs. Semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers may direct semiconductor capital equipment manufacturers to use a specified suppliers product in their equipment. Accordingly, our success depends in part on our ability to have semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers specify that our products be used at their fabrication facilities. Some of our competitors may have more developed relationships with semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers, which enable them to have their products specified for use in manufacturers fabrication facilities. From time to time, we make capital investments in anticipation of future business opportunities; if we are unable to obtain the anticipated business, our revenue and profitability may decline. In the semiconductor market, the first company to introduce an innovative product meeting an identified customer need often will have a significant advantage over offerings of competitive products. For this reason, we may make significant capital investments in technology and manufacturing capacity in advance of future business developing and without any commitment from our customers to purchase products manufactured as a result of these investments. For example, we have made significant capital investments to develop the capability to manufacture shippers and FOUPs for 450 mm wafers, however, the size and timing of the development of the market for 450 mm wafer shippers and FOUPs remains uncertain. Major semiconductor manufacturers have delayed the implementation of 450 mm manufacturing while others have announced that they would not initiate 450 mm manufacturing until after 2020, so we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully sell significant quantities of our 450 mm shipper and FOUP products or realize a return on our investment in the near term or ever. If we are unable to achieve broad market acceptance for these products or if a competitive product is preferred by our customers, we may not be able to recoup our investment, we may lose market share and our revenue and profitability may decline. We may acquire other businesses, form joint ventures or divest businesses that could negatively affect our profitability, require us to incur debt and dilute your ownership of the Company. As part of our business strategy, we have, and we expect to continue to address gaps in our product offerings, diversify into complementary product markets or pursue additional technology and customers through acquisitions, joint ventures or other types of collaborations. We also expect to adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our ongoing strategic objectives. As a result, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and may encounter difficulties in divesting businesses that no longer meet our objectives. Competition for acquiring attractive businesses in our industry is substantial. In executing this part of our business strategy, we may experience difficulty in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or in completing selected transactions at appropriate valuations. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake multiple transactions at the same time in order to take advantage of acquisition opportunities that do arise; this could strain our ability to effectively execute and integrate these transactions. We would consider a variety of financing alternatives for each acquisition which could include borrowing funds, reducing our cash balances or issuing additional shares of our common stock to complete an acquisition. This could impair our liquidity and dilute your ownership of the Company. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we do make into our existing business operations, and we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or experience negative effects on our reported results of operations from dilutive results from operations and/or from future potential impairment of acquired assets, including goodwill, related to future acquisitions. We may experience difficulties in operating in foreign countries or over significant geographical distances and in retaining key employees or customers of an acquired business, and our managements attention could be diverted from other business issues. We may not 17 Table of Contents identify or complete these transactions in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all, and we may not realize the benefits of any acquisition or joint venture. We may not effectively penetrate new markets. Part of our business strategy is to leverage our expertise in our core competencies for growth in new and adjacent markets, such as photovoltaic cells, LEDs, flat panel displays, lithium ion batteries and magnetic storage devices. Our ability to grow our business could be limited if we are unable to execute on this strategy. Additional Risks Related to Our Business The loss or significant curtailment of purchases by any of the largest customers of our Electronic Materials (EM) business could adversely affect our results of operations. While our EM business generates revenue from hundreds of customers worldwide, a significant percent of its revenues are generated by its top ten customers. The loss of or significant curtailment of purchases by one or more of these top customers, including curtailments due to a change in the design or manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments may adversely affect our results of operations. Our EM customers and their customers aggressive management of inventory has already adversely affected EMs results of operations in the past and may continue to adversely affect future results of operations. We may have difficulty obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing or assembling our EM products or operating other aspects of our EM business, which could adversely affect our ability to meet demand for our EM products and may increase our costs. We have hundreds of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our EM products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of these materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for certain of these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of reasonable quality production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production process for EM products. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as electricity, chemicals, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources we use for our EM products may require us to reduce production of EM products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of these materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Certain of our EM products are used to transport toxic gases used in the semiconductor manufacturing process . Our patented SDS systems use a standard gas cylinder containing a carbon-based adsorbent material. The cylinder is filled with gas under conditions such that the gas is adsorbed onto the adsorbent material at sub-atmospheric pressure to minimize potential leaks of gas during transportation and use. Likewise our VAC systems use a complementary technology where select implant gases are stored under high pressure but delivered sub-atmospherically. While we believe that these delivery systems are the safest available in the industry, as with any products involved in the transport and storage of toxic gases, if a leak should occur during transport or during storage at our customers location serious damage could result including injury or death to any person exposed to those toxic gases creating significant product liability for us. While we believe we maintain adequate levels of product liability insurance, there can be no assurance that our insurance will be adequate to satisfy any such liabilities and our financial results or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by climate change or natural catastrophes, such as the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the June 2012 wildfires in Colorado Springs, Colorado, in the locations in which we, our customers or our suppliers operate. We have manufacturing and other operations in locations subject to natural events such as severe weather and earthquakes that could disrupt operations. In addition, our suppliers and customers also have operations in such locations. A natural disaster that results in a prolonged disruption to our operations, or our customers or suppliers operations, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Also, climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our businesses. While the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in Japan did not materially impair manufacturing operations at our Yonezawa, Japan plant and while the June 2012 wildfires did not materially impair manufacturing operations at our Colorado Springs plant, there can be no assurance that future such catastrophes will not impact our manufacturing operations or those of our supply chain partners by disrupting our ability to manufacture and deliver products to our customers, resulting in an adverse impact on our business and results of operations. We may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security from cyber attacks, employee social media use on our computers or through failure of our internet service providers and other cloud computing service providers to successfully secure their own systems could disrupt our operations, causing customer communication and order management issues, unintentional disclosure of customer, employee and proprietary information, and disruption in transaction processing, which could affect our reputation and reporting of financial results. While our management has taken steps to address these concerns by 18 Table of Contents implementing network security, hiring personnel and establishing internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. The integration of ATMIs operations into ours following the Merger could create additional risks for our internal controls over financial reporting . We intend to integrate ATMI into our control environment and subject it to internal control testing during calendar year 2015, which means that deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting as a combined company may not be identified until then. Any such undiscovered deficiencies, if material, could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, declines in the trading price of our common stock or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness We will have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and our ability to obtain financing in the future, react to changes in our business and to make payments on the indebtedness. As of December 31, 2014, we have an aggregate principal amount of approximately $767 million of outstanding total indebtedness, comprised of our 6% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2022 (Notes) and our senior secured term loan facility due 2021 (Term Loan). In addition we have approximately $75 million of unutilized capacity under a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility (ABL Facility), which is subject to a borrowing base. Subject to the limits contained in the credit agreements governing our Term Loan, the ABL Facility and the indenture that governs the Notes, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we do so, the risks related to our high level of debt could intensify. Specifically, our high level of debt could have important consequences to investors, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Notes, the Term Loan and the ABL Facility; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Notes, the Term Loan and the ABL Facility; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industry in which we compete; preventing us from raising funds necessary to repurchase all Notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of certain changes of control, which could constitute a default under the indenture governing the Notes; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors or competitors with comparable debt at more favorable interest rates; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and the ABL Facility contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our debt. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our existing indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future. Although the indenture that will govern the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the Notes, subject to collateral arrangements, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the Notes and the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our Company. These restrictions also will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. Our Term Loan also provides that we will have the right at any time to request additional loans and commitments, and to the extent that the aggregate amount of such additional loans and commitments exceeds $225 million, the incurrence thereof will be subject 19 Table of Contents to our secured net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio, or in the case of unsecured loans or other unsecured debt, or loans or other debt secured by junior liens, our total net leverage ratio being less than a specified ratio. The lenders under these facilities will not be under any obligation to provide any such additional term loans or commitments, and any additional term loans or increase in commitments will be subject to several conditions precedent and limitations. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that the Company now faces could intensify. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreements governing the Term Loan, the ABL Facility and the indenture that governs the Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the Notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under the Term Loan and the ABL Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, our secured lenders could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The terms of our credit agreements governing our Term Loan, our ABL Facility and the indenture governing the Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The indenture that governs the Notes and the credit agreements governing our Term Loan contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur certain liens; incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem, capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make investments, loans, advances and acquisitions; sell or otherwise dispose of assets, including capital stock of our subsidiaries; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility may, at certain times, require us to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio. Our ability to meet this financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of the covenants under the indenture that governs the Notes or under the credit agreements governing our Term Loan and the ABL Facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our ABL Facility would permit the lenders under our ABL Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable 20 Table of Contents to repay the amounts due and payable under our Term Loan and ABL Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event our lenders or note holders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our Term Loan and ABL Facility to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our Term Loan and ABL Facility and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs we would be in default under the applicable facility, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. The restrictions contained in the credit agreements governing our Term Loan, the ABL Facility and the indenture that governs the Notes could adversely affect our ability to: finance our operations; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions or investments or enter into joint ventures; withstand a future downturn in our business, the industry or the economy in general; compete effectively and engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our best interest; and plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies. These restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our plans. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. The Notes have been rated by Standard & Poors and Moodys. There is no assurance that such credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time. Rating agencies also may lower, suspend or withdraw ratings on the Notes or our other debt in the future. Any lowering, suspension or withdrawal of such ratings may have an adverse effect on the market prices or marketability of our indebtedness. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. If any credit rating initially assigned to our indebtedness is lowered or withdrawn for any reason, the value of that indebtedness could deteriorate. Manufacturing Risks Our dependence on single and limited source suppliers could affect our ability to manufacture our products. We rely on single or limited source suppliers for some plastic polymers, filtration membranes and petroleum coke that are critical to the manufacturing of our products. At times, we have experienced a limited supply of certain polymers as well as the need to substitute polymers, resulting in delays, increased costs and the risks associated with qualifying new polymers with our customers. An industry-wide increase in demand for these polymers could affect the ability of our suppliers to provide sufficient quantities to us. If we are unable to obtain an adequate quantity of such supplies, our manufacturing operations may be interrupted. In addition, suppliers may discontinue production of polymers specified in certain of our products, requiring us in some instances to certify an alternative source with our customers. If we are unable to obtain an adequate quantity of such supplies for any reason, our manufacturing operations may be adversely affected. Obtaining alternative sources would likely result in increased costs and shipping delays, which could decrease profitability and damage our relationships with current and potential customers. Prices for polymers can vary widely. In a volatile oil price environment, some suppliers have added and may in the future add surcharges to the prices of the polymers we purchase. While we have long-term arrangements with certain key suppliers of polymers that fix our price for purchases up to specified quantities, if our polymer requirements exceed the quantities specified, we could be exposed to higher material costs. If the cost of polymers increases and we are unable to correspondingly increase the sales price of our products, our profit margins will decline. Our filtration products incorporate a wide variety of filter membranes designed to meet specific customer filtration needs, not all of which are produced internally. In the event that a manufacturer of outsourced membrane discontinues supply or production, we may be required to identify and qualify an alternative filter membrane for that application to incorporate into our products. This could require extensive lead times and increased costs which may cause us to lose sales and cause our profit margins to decline. 21 Table of Contents Our graphite synthesis process requires petroleum coke that meets specified criteria. While there are multiple suppliers for this petroleum coke, the sources are limited and our required criteria may cause the price of this petroleum coke to increase. Our production processes are becoming increasingly complex, and our production could be disrupted if we are unable to avoid manufacturing difficulties. Our manufacturing processes are complex and require the use of expensive and technologically sophisticated equipment and materials. These processes are frequently modified to improve manufacturing yields and product quality. We have, on occasion, experienced manufacturing difficulties, such as temporary shortages of raw materials and occasional critical equipment breakdowns that have delayed deliveries to customers. A number of our product lines are manufactured at only one or two facilities, and any disruption could impact our sales until another facility could commence or expand production of such products. Our manufacturing operations are subject to numerous risks, including the introduction of impurities in the manufacturing process and other manufacturing difficulties that may not be well understood for an extended period of time and that could lower manufacturing yields and make our products unmarketable; the costs and demands of managing and coordinating geographically diverse manufacturing facilities; and the disruption of production in one or more facilities as a result of a slowdown or shutdown in another facility. We could experience these or other manufacturing difficulties, which might result in a loss of customers and exposure to warranty and product liability claims. Third-party membrane suppliers may disrupt our ability to manufacture products to meet our customer needs. Certain of our membrane products rely on membranes manufactured by third parties. In the event that these membranes are no longer available or cost-effective and we are unable to acquire an alternative source, our ability to manufacture these products may be disrupted and our profits may decline. Our membrane manufacturing operations may be disrupted if we are unable to successfully transition manufacturing to our own facility. The Membrane Manufacturing and Supply Transition Agreement (the Membrane Agreement) between us and EMD Millipore Corporation, dated November 22, 2013, provides that our lease of space in Millipores Bedford, Massachusetts facility and our right to use certain manufacturing equipment owned by Millipore expires on June 30, 2015. While we have opened a new membrane manufacturing plant in Bedford, MA to house these membrane manufacturing operations, qualification of this new membrane manufacturing plant is still under way and will require significant lead time to complete. In addition, the transition of membrane manufacturing operations to this new facility, which will also consolidate certain other existing operations in Massachusetts, will be complex and time consuming. In addition, our current membrane manufacturing is operating at capacity. Consequently, delays in completion of the qualification of our new membrane manufacturing facility or a failure to execute the transition of our membrane manufacturing operations effectively and expeditiously might disrupt our manufacture of membrane, exacerbate our capacity constraints and result in a loss of customers or exposure to warranty, product liability claims and breach of contract claims. We may lose sales if we are unable to timely procure, repair or replace capital equipment necessary to manufacture many of our products. If our existing equipment fails, or we are unable to obtain new equipment quickly enough to satisfy any increased demand for our products, we may lose sales to competitors. In particular, we do not maintain duplicate tools or equipment for most of our important products. Fixing or replacing complex tools is time consuming, and we may not be able to replace a damaged tool in time to meet customer requirements. In addition, from time to time we may upgrade or add new manufacturing equipment that may require substantial lead times to build and qualify. Delays in building and qualifying new equipment could result in a disruption of our manufacturing processes and prevent us from meeting our customers requirements so that they would seek other suppliers. We incur significant cash outlays over long-term periods in order to research, develop, manufacture and market new products that may never reach market or may have limited market acceptance. We make significant cash expenditures to engineer, research, develop and market new products. For example, we incurred $87.7 million , $55.3 million and $50.9 million for engineering, research and development expense in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The development period for a product can be very long. Following development, it may take a number of years for sales of that product to reach a substantial level, if ever. We cannot be certain of the success of a new product. A product concept may never progress beyond the development stage or may only achieve limited acceptance in the marketplace. If this occurs, we do not receive a direct return on our expenditures and may not even realize any indirect benefits. Additionally, capacity expansion may be necessary in order to manufacture a new product. If sales levels do not increase to offset the additional fixed operating expenses associated with any such expansion, our profitability could decline and our prospects could be harmed. For example, as noted above, while we have made significant capital investments to develop the capability to manufacture shippers and FOUPs for 450 mm wafers, the size and timing of the development of the market for 450 mm wafer shippers and FOUPs remains uncertain. Major semiconductor manufacturers have delayed the implementation of 450 mm manufacturing while others have announced that they would not initiate 450 mm manufacturing until 22 Table of Contents after 2020, so we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully sell significant quantities of our 450 mm shipper and FOUP products or realize a return on our investment in the near term or ever. We are subject to a variety of environmental laws that could cause us to incur significant expenses. In addition to other regulatory requirements affecting our business, we are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and non-U.S. regulatory requirements relating to the use, disposal, clean-up of, and human exposure to, hazardous chemicals. We generate and handle materials that are considered hazardous waste under applicable law. Certain of our manufacturing operations require the discharge of substantial quantities of wastewater into publicly owned waste treatment works which require us to assure that our wastewater complies with volume and content limitations. If we fail to comply with any present or future regulations, we could be subject to future liabilities or the suspension of production. In addition, compliance with these or future laws could restrict our ability to expand our facilities or to build or acquire new facilities or may require us to acquire costly equipment, incur other significant expenses, such as remediation of contamination found on any site that we may acquire, or modify our manufacturing processes. We are continually evaluating our manufacturing operations within our plants in order to achieve efficiencies and gross margin improvements. If we are unable to successfully manage transfers or realignments of our manufacturing operations, our ability to deliver products to our customers could be disrupted and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In order to enhance the efficiency and cost effectiveness of our manufacturing operations, we have in the past and may in the future move several product lines from one of our plants to another and to consolidate manufacturing operations in certain of our plants. Our product lines involve technically complex manufacturing processes that require considerable expertise to operate. If we are unable to establish stable processes to efficiently and effectively produce high quality products in relocated manufacturing processes in the destination plant, production may be disrupted and we may not be able to deliver these products to meet customer orders in a timely manner, which may cause us to lose credibility with our customers and harm our business. There can be no assurance that these complex manufacturing processes can be stabilized and that the cost savings that we anticipate will be achieved. Loss of our key personnel could harm our business because of their experience in the semiconductor industry and their technological expertise. Similarly, our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. We depend on the services of our key senior executives and technological experts because of their experience in the semiconductor industry and their technical expertise. The loss of the services of one or several of our key employees or an inability to attract, train and retain qualified and skilled employees, specifically research and development and engineering personnel, could result in the loss of customers or otherwise inhibit our ability to operate and grow our business successfully. In the past and currently, during downturns in the semiconductor industry our predecessor companies have, and we have, had to impose salary reductions on senior employees and freeze or eliminate merit increases in an effort to maintain our financial position. These actions may have an adverse effect on employee loyalty and may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain key personnel. We face the risk of product liability claims. The manufacture and sale of our products involve the risk of product liability claims. In addition, a failure of one of our products at a customer site could interrupt the business operations of the customer. Our existing insurance coverage limits may not be adequate to protect us from all liabilities that we might incur in connection with the manufacture and sale of our products if a successful product liability claim or series of product liability claims were brought against us. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business and prospects could be harmed. Our future success and competitive position depend in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain proprietary technology used in our principal product families. We rely, in part, on patent, trade secret and trademark law to protect that technology. We routinely enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and with third parties. However, there can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that our confidential and proprietary information and technology will not be independently developed by or become otherwise known to third parties. We have obtained a number of patents relating to our products and have filed applications for additional patents. We cannot assure you that any of our pending patent applications will be approved, that we will develop additional proprietary technology that is patentable, that any patents owned by or issued to us will provide us with competitive advantages or that these patents will not be challenged by third parties. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of our filings, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, and disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise. In addition, if we do not obtain sufficient international protection for our intellectual property, our competitiveness in international markets could be significantly impaired, which would limit our growth and future revenue. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that third parties will not design around our patents. Protection of our intellectual property rights has in the past resulted and may continue to result in costly litigation. We may from time to time be required to institute litigation in order to enforce our patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of 23 Table of Contents infringement. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. For example, in January 2011 we settled multiple patent litigations with Pall Corporation. We prosecuted and defended these cases vigorously and incurred substantial costs in pursuing them. It may become necessary for us to initiate other costly patent litigation against this or other competitors in order to protect and/or perfect our intellectual property rights. We cannot predict how any existing or future litigation will be resolved or what their impact will be on us. If we infringe on the proprietary technology of others, our business and prospects could be harmed. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing or misappropriating any patents or other proprietary rights owned by third parties. If we are found to infringe or misappropriate a third partys patent or other proprietary rights, we could be required to pay damages to such third party, alter our products or processes, obtain a license from the third party or cease activities utilizing such proprietary rights, including making or selling products utilizing such proprietary rights. If we are required to obtain a license from a third party, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so on commercially favorable terms, if at all. International Risks We conduct a significant amount of our sales activity and manufacturing efforts outside the United States, which subjects us to additional business risks and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 75% , 71% and 69% , respectively, of our net sales in 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a majority of our net sales. In addition, a number of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. We also manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States and are dependent on international suppliers for many of our parts. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities in both sales and manufacturing internationally. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that could impose additional costs on our operations or limit our ability to operate our business; greater difficulty in collecting our accounts receivable and longer payment cycles than are typical in domestic operations; changes in labor conditions and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; expense and complexity of complying with U.S. and foreign import and export regulations; liability for foreign taxes assessed at rates higher than those applicable to our domestic operations; and political and economic instability. In the past, we have incurred costs or experienced disruptions due to the factors described above and expect to do so in the future. For example, our operations in Asia, and particularly South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, have been negatively impacted in the past as a result of regional economic instability. In addition, Taiwan and South Korea account for a growing portion of the worlds semiconductor manufacturing. There have historically been strained relations between China and Taiwan and there are continuing tensions between North Korea and other countries, including South Korea and the United States. Any adverse developments in those relations could significantly disrupt the worldwide production of semiconductors, which may lead to reduced sales of our products. Furthermore, we incur additional legal compliance costs associated with our international operations and could become subject to legal penalties in foreign countries if we do not comply with local laws and regulations, which may be substantially different from those in the United States. In a number of foreign countries, some companies engage in business practices that are prohibited by U.S. law applicable to us such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Although we implement policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, including those based in countries where practices that violate such U.S. laws may be customary or common, will not take actions in violation of our policies. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We will lose sales if we are unable to obtain government authorization to export certain of our products or to import certain of our products into foreign markets, and we would be subject to legal and regulatory consequences if we do not comply with applicable export and import control laws and regulations. Exports of certain of our products are subject to export controls imposed by the U.S. Government and administered by the U.S. Departments of State and Commerce. In certain instances, these regulations may require pre-shipment authorization from the administering department. For products subject to the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) administered by the Department of Commerces Bureau of Industry and Security, the requirement for a license is dependent on the type and end use of the product, the final destination, the identity of the end user and whether a license exception might apply. Virtually all exports of products subject to the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) administered by the Department of States Directorate of Defense Trade Controls, require a license. Certain of our products are subject to EAR and ITAR. Products developed and manufactured in our foreign locations are subject to export controls of the applicable foreign nation. 24 Table of Contents Given the current global political climate, obtaining export licenses can be difficult and time-consuming. Failure to obtain export licenses for these shipments could significantly reduce our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Compliance with U.S. Government regulations may also subject us to additional fees and costs. The absence of comparable restrictions on competitors in other countries may adversely affect our competitive position. In addition, certain countries require import and other special licenses in order for certain of our products to be imported into or sold in that country. Our inability to satisfy these requirements in a timely manner has in the past, and may continue to, prevent us from meeting our customers expectations in these countries and to lose sales. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in taxation. We have facilities in foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to taxation and audit by a number of taxing authorities. Tax rates vary among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our results of operations could be affected by market opportunities or decisions we make that cause us to increase or decrease operations in one or more countries, or by changes in applicable tax rates or audits by the taxing authorities in countries in which we operate. In addition, we are subject to laws and regulations in various locations that govern the determination of which is the appropriate jurisdiction to decide when and how much profit has been earned and is subject to taxation in that jurisdiction. Changes in these laws and regulations could affect the locations where we are deemed to earn income, which could in turn affect our results of operations. We have deferred tax assets on our balance sheet. Changes in applicable tax laws and regulations could affect our ability to realize those deferred tax assets, which could also affect our results of operations. Each quarter we forecast our tax liability based on our forecast of our performance for the year. If that performance forecast changes, our forecasted tax liability may change. In connection with the Merger we have undertaken a complex internal reorganization of our foreign subsidiaries in order to rationalize and streamline our foreign operations, focus our management efforts on certain local opportunities and to take advantage of favorable business conditions in certain localities. While we have exercised diligence in undertaking this internal reorganization, there can be no assurance that this reorganization, or any future internal reorganization, will not result in adverse tax consequences in the United States or in foreign countries in which we have operations. This could adversely impact our profitability from foreign operations and result in a material reduction in our results of operations. We may be subject to increased import duties as we seek to source more of the materials from which our products are made from foreign countries. In an effort to reduce the cost of our products or to obtain the highest quality materials, we expect that our purchases of raw materials and components from foreign countries will increase. Those of our products manufactured in the United States or other countries from these materials and components may consequently be burdened by import duties imposed by the United States or those other countries, and these additional costs may be substantial and may put our products at a competitive disadvantage. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower net income and shareholders equity or may cause us to raise prices, which could result in reduced net sales. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our net sales, results of operations and shareholders equity. Foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar could require us to increase prices to foreign customers, which could result in lower net sales by us to such customers. Alternatively, if we do not adjust the prices for our products in response to foreign currency fluctuations, our profitability could decline. In addition, sales made by our foreign subsidiaries are generally denominated in the currency of the country in which these products are sold, and the currency we receive in payment for such sales could be less valuable at the time of receipt versus the time of sale as a result of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We are subject to restrictions on the transfer of currency from certain countries in which we conduct operations that could impair our ability to transfer our funds from one of our subsidiaries to another. These regulations are complex and may interfere with the conduct of our business operations in the ordinary course. In some jurisdictions even an unintentional violation of these regulations can result in criminal penalties. Volatility in the global economy could adversely affect our results. Financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent years, including, among other things, volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of sovereign debt and declining valuation of certain investments, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, volatility in unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. In the past such conditions have had a significant adverse impact on our industry and financial condition and results of operations. There may be further changes in the global economy, which could lead to further challenges in our business and negatively impact our financial results. Tightness of credit in financial markets could adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in orders and spending for our products and services. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of any disruption in European or global 25 Table of Contents financial markets and adverse economic conditions and the effects they may have on our business and financial condition. If uncertain economic conditions return or deteriorate, our business and results of operations could be further materially and adversely affected. An increased concentration of wafer manufacturing in Japan could result in lower sales of our wafer shipper products. A large percentage of the worlds 300 mm raw silicon wafer manufacturing currently takes place in Japan. Our market share in Japan is currently lower than in other regions we serve. Further, we expect that a large percentage of 450 mm raw silicon wafer manufacturing will, in the future, take place in Japan. If we are unable to persuade these wafer suppliers to use our new 450 mm shippers, we may not be able to achieve a significant market share and may not be able to benefit from our investment in 450 mm shipper manufacturing capacity. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks that occurred in New York and Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001, and other acts of violence or war may affect the markets in which we operate or our operations and hurt our ability to manufacture products and our profitability. Terrorist attacks may negatively affect our operations and any security we issue. There can be no assurance that there will not be future terrorist attacks against the United States or U.S. businesses. These attacks or other armed conflicts may directly impact our physical facilities or those of our suppliers or customers. Our primary facilities include headquarters, research and development and manufacturing facilities in the United States; sales, research and development and manufacturing facilities in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and Malaysia; and sales and service facilities in Europe and Asia. Attacks may also disrupt the global insurance and reinsurance industries with the result that we may not be able to obtain insurance at historical terms and levels for our facilities. Furthermore, such attacks may make travel and the transportation of our supplies and products more difficult and more expensive and may ultimately affect the sales of our products in the United States and overseas. As a result of terrorism, the United States may enter into additional armed conflicts, which could have a further impact on our domestic and international sales, our supply chain, our production capacity and our ability to deliver products to our customers. The consequences of these armed conflicts and the associated instability are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse effect on our business and any security we issue. Risks Related to Owning our Securities The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. The price of our common stock has been volatile in the past and may be volatile in the future. While in 2014 the closing price of our stock on The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) ranged from a low of $10.28 to a high of $14.02, in past years the price of our common stock showed greater volatility. The trading price of our common stock is subject to significant volatility in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: the failure to meet the published expectations of securities analysts; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; press releases or announcements by, or changes in market values of, comparable companies; volatility in the markets for high-technology stocks, general stock market price and volume fluctuations, which are particularly common among securities of high-technology companies; stock market price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels; the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry and current industry downturn; our performance; our ability to repay when due any debt obligations we may incur in the future; our ability to respond to rapid shifts in demand; our ability to compete effectively; loss of key customers or decline in order volumes for new and existing products; our high fixed costs; manufacturing difficulties; risks associated with our significant foreign operations; additions or departures of key personnel; involvement in or adverse results from litigation; and perceived dilution from stock issuances. Furthermore, stock prices for many companies fluctuate widely for reasons that may be unrelated to their operating results. Those fluctuations and general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, terrorist or other military actions, or international currency fluctuations, as well as public perception of equity values of publicly traded companies may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. These market fluctuations may cause the trading price of our common stock to decrease. Future decreases in our stock price may adversely impact our ability to raise sufficient additional capital in the future, if needed. If our common stock trades below book value or our business outlook erodes, we could be required to record material impairment losses for our long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and our identifiable intangibles. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we review our long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. If the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, the asset will be written down to its fair value. The evaluation of the recoverability of long-lived assets requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the identification of the asset group at the lowest level of independent 26 Table of Contents cash flows and the primary asset of the group; and long-range forecasts of revenue, reflecting managements assessment of general economic and industry conditions, operating income, depreciation and amortization and working capital requirements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, which are made in a particular economic environment, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in the underlying assumptions would have a significant impact on the conclusion that an asset groups carrying value is recoverable, or the determination of any impairment charge if it was determined that the asset values were indeed impaired. Due to the uncertain economic environment within the semiconductor industry, we continually monitor circumstances and events to determine whether asset impairment testing is warranted. It is possible that in the future we may no longer be able to conclude that there is no impairment of our long-lived assets, nor can we provide assurance that material impairment charges of long-lived assets will not occur in future periods. Our annual and quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations as a result of rapid demand shifts and our modest level of backlog, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. Our sales and profitability can vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. Because our expense levels are relatively fixed in the short-term, an unanticipated decline in revenue in a particular quarter could significantly reduce our net income, or lead to a net loss, in that quarter. In addition, we make a substantial portion of our shipments shortly after we receive the order, and therefore we operate with a relatively modest level of backlog. As a consequence of the just-in-time nature of shipments and the modest level of backlog, our results of operations may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future. Such fluctuations in our results could cause us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as indicators of our future performance. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future, identify material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. Each of these past material weaknesses represented a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not have been prevented or detected. Any failure to implement and maintain the improvements that we have made to our controls over our financial reporting, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of these improvements in our controls, could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure in our internal controls that leads to a material weakness could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative impact on the trading price of our stock. Changes effected by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related SEC regulations have in the past and are likely to continue to increase our costs. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Act required changes in some of our corporate governance, securities disclosure and compliance practices. In response to the requirements of those Acts, the Securities and Exchange Commission and the NASDAQ have promulgated new rules and listing standards covering a variety of subjects. Compliance with these rules and listing standards has increased our legal and financial and accounting costs, and we expect these increased costs to continue indefinitely. We also expect these developments may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be forced to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. Likewise, these developments may make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors, particularly independent directors, or qualified executive officers. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan may delay or prevent an acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of your shares. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws, Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. 27 Table of Contents Our restated certificate of incorporation makes us subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In general, Section 203 prohibits publicly held Delaware corporations to which it applies from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. This provision could discourage others from bidding for our shares of common stock and could, as a result, reduce the likelihood of an increase in the price of our common stock that would otherwise occur if a bidder sought to buy our common stock. Our shareholder rights plan will permit our stockholders to purchase shares of our common stock at a 50% discount upon the occurrence of specified events, including the acquisition by anyone of 15% or more of our common stock, unless such event is approved by our board of directors. Delaware law also imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by stockholders. If a change of control or change in management is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of blank check preferred stock. Our certificate of incorporation provides that our board of directors is authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix and designate the rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions of the preferred stock, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption rights and terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. Our issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to the holders of common stock or could adversely affect the rights and powers, including voting rights, of the holders of common stock. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of decreasing the market price of our common stock. Your percentage ownership in us may be diluted by future issuances of capital stock, which could reduce your influence over matters on which stockholders vote. Subject to applicable NASDAQ standards, our board of directors has the authority, without action or vote of our stockholders, to issue all or any part of our authorized but unissued shares. Issuances of common stock or the exercise of employee and director stock options would dilute your percentage ownership interest, which will have the effect of reducing your influence over matters on which our stockholders vote. In addition, we may issue substantial quantities of our common stock in order to affect acquisitions which would also dilute your ownership interest. If the issuances are made at prices that reflect a discount from the then current trading price of our common stock, your interest in the book value of our common stock might be diluted. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. Item 2. Properties. Our principal executive offices are located in Billerica, Massachusetts. We also have manufacturing, research and equipment cleaning facilities in the United States, Japan, France, Taiwan, South Korea and Malaysia. Information about our principal facilities is set forth below: 28 Table of Contents Location Principal Function Approximate Square Feet Leased/ Owned Bedford, Massachusetts (1) Research &Manufacturing 80,000 Owned Billerica, Massachusetts (1) (2) Executive Offices, Research & Manufacturing 175,000 Leased Bloomington, MN (1) Research & Manufacturing 68,000 Leased Burnet, TX (3) Research & Manufacturing 77,000 Owned Chaska, Minnesota (1) Executive Offices, Research & Manufacturing 192,000 Owned Colorado Springs, CO (1) Manufacturing 82,000 Owned Colorado Springs, CO (1) Manufacturing 40,000 Leased Danbury, CT (3) Research & Manufacturing 73,000 Leased Danbury, CT (3) Executive Offices 31,000 Leased Decatur, Texas (1) Manufacturing 359,000 Owned Hsin-chu, Taiwan (1) (3) Executive Offices, Research &Manufacturing 50,000 Leased JangAn, South Korea (3) Manufacturing 127,000 Owned Kulim, Malaysia (1) Manufacturing 195,000 Owned Montpellier, France (1) Cleaning Services 53,000 Owned Suwon, South Korea (1) (3) Executive Offices & Research 16,000 Leased Tokyo, Japan (1) (3) Executive Offices & Research 27,000 Leased Wonju City, South Korea (1) Manufacturing 35,000 Owned Yonezawa, Japan (1) Manufacturing 196,000 Owned 1. Facility used by our Critical Materials Handling segment. 2. This lease has been extended through March 31, 2019 and is subject to one five-year renewal option. 3. Facility used by our Electronics Materials segment. We lease approximately 4,200 square feet of manufacturing space in a facility located at 80 Ashby Road, Bedford, Massachusetts owned by EMD Millipore Corporation pursuant to a Membrane Manufacturing and Supply Transition Agreement that expires June 30, 2015. We also lease approximately 13,000 square feet of research and development and manufacturing office space located in San Diego, California, approximately 31,000 square feet of office, research and development and manufacturing space located in Franklin, Massachusetts, an aggregate of approximately 33,000 square feet of manufacturing space in Anseong, South Korea, approximately 15,000 square feet of office space in Round Rock, Texas, and approximately 10,000 square feet of office space in Tempe, Arizona. We lease approximately 10,000 square feet for our Asia manufacturing management offices in Singapore. In addition, we maintain a worldwide network of sales, service, repair or cleaning centers in the United States, Germany, France, Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Taiwan, Singapore, China and South Korea. Leases for our facilities expire through December 2018. We currently expect to be able to extend the terms of expiring leases or to find suitable replacement facilities on reasonable terms. We believe that our facilities are well-maintained and suitable for their respective operations. All of our facilities are generally utilized within a normal range of production volume. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. On or about February 7 and 28, 2014, two putative class action complaints challenging the Merger between the Company and ATMI, Inc. were filed in the Superior Court of the State of Connecticut, Judicial District of Danbury, captioned Andrew Pace v. ATMI, Inc., et al. and Dolores Carter v. ATMI, Inc., et al., respectively. The complaints were filed on behalf of the public shareholders of ATMI, Inc. and name as defendants ATMI, Inc., the members of the Board of Directors of ATMI, Inc., the Company and the Companys subsidiary, Atomic Merger Corporation. The complaints generally alleged that ATMI, Inc.s directors breached their fiduciary duties to ATMI, Inc.s shareholders by agreeing to sell ATMI, Inc. for inadequate and unfair consideration and pursuant to an inadequate and unfair process, and that ATMI, Inc., the Company and Atomic Merger Corporation aided and abetted those alleged breaches. The complaint in the Carter action and the second amended complaint in the Pace action also allege purported disclosure deficiencies in the preliminary and definitive proxy statements for the merger that ATMI, Inc. filed with the SEC. The complaints sought, among other things, to enjoin the Merger. The Merger was approved by ATMI, Inc.s shareholders on April 15, 2014 and was closed on April 30, 2014. The case captioned Dolores Carter v. ATMI, Inc., et al. was subsequently dismissed by the plaintiff. The case captioned Andrew Pace v. ATMI, Inc., et al. was transferred to the Complex Litigation Docket of the Superior Court of the State of Connecticut, Judicial District of Waterbury. On July 21, 2014, ATMI, Inc. and the Company each 29 Table of Contents filed a motion to strike the plaintiffs second amended complaint. On December 29, 2014, the court granted the defendants motion to strike and on January 27, 2015, the case was dismissed by agreement of the parties. As of December 31, 2014, we were not involved in any legal proceedings that we believe will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. From time to time the Company may be a party to litigation involving claims against the Company arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not aware of any material potential litigation or claims against us which would have a material adverse effect upon our financial statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information and Holders: Entegris Common Stock, $0.01 par value, trades on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ENTG. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of the Company shares for each full quarterly period during 2014 and 2013 . As of February 18, 2015 there were 1,252 shareholders of record. On February 18, 2015 , the last sale price reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market for our common stock was $13.51 per share. 2014 2013 Low High Low High First quarter $ 10.20 $ 12.50 $ 8.96 $ 10.18 Second quarter $ 10.69 $ 13.86 $ 8.89 $ 10.52 Third quarter $ 11.43 $ 14.05 $ 8.97 $ 10.64 Fourth quarter $ 10.67 $ 13.96 $ 9.87 $ 11.65 Dividend Policy: The Company has never declared or paid any cash dividends on its capital stock. The Company currently intends to retain all available earnings for use in its business operations and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, our Restated Credit Agreement contains restrictions that limit our ability to pay dividends. On July 27, 2005 the Entegris Board of Directors declared a dividend of one common stock purchase right for each share of Entegris Common Stock outstanding to shareholders of record on August 8, 2005, payable on August 8, 2005. For a description of the Common Stock Rights Plan see Other Information in Item 1 above. Each right generally entitles the holder to purchase one one-hundredth of a share of a series of preferred stock of Entegris at a price of $50. Issuer Sales of Unregistered Securities During the Past Three Years: None Comparative Stock Performance The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on the common stock of Entegris, Inc. from December 31, 2009 through December 31, 2014 with cumulative total return of (1) The NASDAQ Composite Index (NASDAQ), and (2) The Philadelphia Semiconductor Index, assuming $100 was invested at the close of trading December 31, 2009 in Entegris, Inc. common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index and that all dividends are reinvested. 31 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2012 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 Entegris, Inc. $100.00 $141.48 $165.34 $173.86 $219.51 $250.19 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 118.02 117.04 137.47 192.62 221.02 Philadelphia Semiconductor Index 100.00 141.76 127.06 136.21 193.20 253.96 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities: On December 12, 2012, the Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program covering up to an aggregate of $50.0 million of the Companys common stock in open market transactions and in accordance with one or more pre-arranged stock trading plans established in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The repurchase program and the pre-arranged stock trading plan expired February 7, 2014 and covered the repurchase of up to $36.2 million of the registrants common stock. The Company repurchased none of its common stock in 2014. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The table that follows presents selected financial data for each of the last five years from the Companys consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes and with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected financial data set forth below as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 and for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 are derived from our audited financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All other selected financial data set forth below is derived from our audited financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected financial data set forth below as of December 31, 2014 and for the year ended December 31, 2014 includes the results of operations of ATMI, Inc. since April 30, 2014. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations to be expected in the future. 32 Table of Contents (In thousands, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 2014 Year ended December 31, 2013 Year ended December 31, 2012 Year ended December 31, 2011 Year ended December 31, 2010 Operating Results Net sales $ 962,069 $ 693,459 $ 715,903 $ 749,259 $ 688,416 Gross profit 376,683 294,214 307,383 325,930 310,643 Selling, general and administrative expenses 231,833 137,123 147,405 140,847 147,051 Engineering, research and development expenses 87,711 55,320 50,940 47,980 43,934 Amortization of intangible assets 37,067 9,347 9,594 10,225 13,231 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,282 ) (1,813 ) Operating income 21,354 94,237 99,444 126,878 106,427 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in affiliate net income (loss) (13,392 ) 96,195 99,703 127,964 101,481 Income tax (benefit) expense (21,572 ) 21,669 30,881 4,217 15,006 Net income 7,887 74,526 68,825 124,246 85,122 Net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. 7,887 74,526 68,825 123,846 84,356 Earnings Per Share Data Diluted earnings per share $ 0.06 $ 0.53 $ 0.50 $ 0.91 $ 0.63 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 140,062 139,618 138,412 136,223 133,174 Operating Ratios % of net sales Gross profit 39.2 % 42.4 % 42.9 % 43.5 % 45.1 % Selling, general and administrative expenses 24.1 19.8 20.6 18.8 21.4 Engineering, research and development expenses 9.1 8.0 7.1 6.4 6.4 Amortization of intangible assets 3.9 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.9 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (0.1 ) (0.3 ) Operating income 2.2 13.6 13.9 16.9 15.5 Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in affiliate net income (loss) (1.4 ) 13.9 13.9 17.1 14.7 Effective tax rate 161.1 22.5 31.0 3.3 14.8 Net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. 0.8 10.7 9.6 16.5 12.3 Cash Flow Statement Data Depreciation and amortization $ 83,704 $ 38,815 $ 37,607 $ 37,064 $ 41,198 Capital expenditures 57,733 60,360 49,929 30,267 16,794 Net cash provided by operating activities 126,423 109,402 115,162 157,286 140,898 Net cash used in investing activities (860,295 ) (47,029 ) (72,467 ) (28,431 ) (11,985 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 747,648 (3,895 ) 10,890 10,864 (65,709 ) Balance Sheet and Other Data Current assets $ 765,655 $ 612,305 $ 579,324 $ 502,999 $ 387,091 Current liabilities 262,520 97,585 93,263 92,594 107,634 Working capital 503,135 514,720 486,061 410,405 279,457 Current ratio 2.92 6.27 6.21 5.43 3.60 Long-term debt, including current maturities 766,796 Shareholders equity 748,441 756,843 694,799 608,238 459,619 Total assets 1,762,091 875,294 811,544 724,663 601,385 Return on average shareholders equity % 1.0 % 10.3 % 10.6 % 23.2 % 20.9 % Shares outstanding at end of period 139,793 138,734 138,458 135,821 132,901 33 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys consolidated financial condition and results of operations should be read along with the consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the Cautionary Statements sections of this Item 7 below. The Companys actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. You should review the Item 1A Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Cautionary Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K and the documents incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The information in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, except for the historical information, contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current views with respect to future events and financial performance. The words believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, forecast, project, may, will, would, could, should and similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. You should read statements that contain these words carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or of financial position or state other forward-looking information. All forecasts and projections in this report are forward-looking statements, and are based on managements current expectations of the Companys near-term results, based on current information available pertaining to the Company. The important factors listed below, as well as any cautionary language elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, provide examples of risks, uncertainties and events that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the expectations described in these forward-looking statements. The risks which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in such forward looking statements include, without limitation, the risks described under Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 under the headings Risks Relating to our Business and Industry, Additional Risks Related to our Business, Risks Related to our Indebtedness, Manufacturing Risks, International Risks and Risks Related to Owning Our Securities as well as in the Companys quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not guarantees of future performance, and actual results, developments and business decisions may differ from those envisaged by such forward-looking statements, possibly materially. We disclaim any duty to update any forward-looking statements. Overview This overview is not a complete discussion of the Companys financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations; it is intended merely to facilitate an understanding of the most salient aspects of its financial condition and operating performance and to provide a context for the detailed discussion and analysis that follows and must be read in its entirety in order to fully understand the Companys financial condition and results of operations. Entegris, Inc. is a leading provider of a wide range of products and services for purifying, protecting and transporting the critical materials used in processing and manufacturing in the microelectronics and other high-technology industries. Entegris derives most of its revenue from the sale of products and services to the semiconductor and related industries. The Companys customers consist primarily of semiconductor manufacturers, semiconductor equipment and materials suppliers as well as thin film transistor-liquid crystal display (TFT-LCD) and hard disk manufacturers, which are served through direct sales efforts, as well as sales and distribution relationships, in the United States, Asia, Europe and the Middle East. The Company offers a diverse product portfolio which includes more than 19,000 standard and customized products that it believes provide the most comprehensive offering of contamination control solutions and microenvironment products and services to maintain the purity and integrity of critical materials used by the semiconductor and other high-technology industries. Certain of these products are unit-driven and consumable products that rely on the level of semiconductor manufacturing activity to drive growth, while others are capital-expenditure driven and rely on expansion of manufacturing capacity to drive growth. The Companys unit-driven and consumable products includes membrane-based liquid filters and housings, metal-based gas filters, resin-based gas purifiers, wafer shippers, disk-shipping containers and test assembly and packaging products and consumable graphite and silicon carbide components used in plasma etch, ion implant and chemical vapor deposition processes in semiconductor manufacturing. The Companys capital expense-driven products include components, systems and subsystems that use electro-mechanical, pressure differential and related technologies to permit 34 Table of Contents semiconductor and other electronics manufacturers to monitor and control the flow and condition of process liquids used in these manufacturing processes, and process carriers that protect the integrity of in-process wafers. Key operating factors Key factors, which management believes have the largest impact on the overall results of operations of Entegris, Inc., include: Level of sales Since a significant portion of the Companys product costs (except for raw materials, purchased components and direct labor) are largely fixed in the short-to-medium term, an increase or decrease in sales affects gross profits and overall profitability significantly. Also, increases or decreases in sales and operating profitability affect certain costs such as incentive compensation and commissions, which are highly variable in nature. The Companys sales are subject to the effects of industry cyclicality, technological change, substantial competition, pricing pressures and foreign currency fluctuation. Variable margin on sales The Companys variable margin on sales is determined by selling prices and the costs of manufacturing and raw materials. This is affected by a number of factors, which include the Companys sales mix, purchase prices of raw material (especially polymers, membranes, stainless steel and purchased components), competition, both domestic and international, direct labor costs, and the efficiency of the Companys production operations, among others. Fixed cost structure . The Companys operations include a number of large fixed or semi-fixed cost components, which include salaries, indirect labor and benefits, facility costs, lease expense, and depreciation and amortization. It is not possible to vary these costs easily in the short-term as volumes fluctuate. Accordingly, increases or decreases in sales volume can have a large effect on the usage and productivity of these cost components, resulting in a large impact on the Companys profitability. Overall Summary of Financial Results for the Year Ended December 31, 2014 On April 30, 2014, the Company acquired ATMI, Inc., a Delaware corporation (ATMI), for approximately $ 1.1 billion in cash, or $809.4 million net of cash acquired, as described in note 2 to the Companys consolidated financial statements. ATMI is a leading supplier of high-performance materials, materials packaging and materials delivery systems used worldwide in the manufacture of microelectronics devices. The acquisition of ATMI (the Merger) was funded with the issuance of $820 million in debt, described in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Total net sales for the year ended December 31, 2014 were $962 million , up $269 million , or 39% , from sales of $693 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . This sales improvement was principally driven by the inclusion of sales of $245 million from ATMI. Exclusive of the effect of the added ATMI sales and unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $8 million , the Company's sales increased 4% . Overall demand from the semiconductor industry reflected improved demand from device makers, as wafer starts and semiconductor unit production increased, higher industry fab utilization rates and increased capital spending levels. Based on the information available, the Company believes sales of its products trailed industry growth measures for 2014. Despite the significant net sales increase, the Company's gross profit rose by only $ 82 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 , to $377 million , up from $294 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . Accordingly, the Company reported a 39.2% gross margin rate compared to 42.4% in 2013. The gross profit and gross margin figures reflect a $49 million charge for fair value write-up of acquired ATMI inventory sold during the year. Excluding that charge, the Company's gross margin for the year was 44.2% . The Company also incurred significantly higher selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses for 2014, mainly due to the inclusion in SG&A and ER&D expenses of ATMI's infrastructure, merger-related expenditures and the cost of integration activities. The Company incurred interest expense of $ 33 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to a nominal amount a year ago, the increase related to the debt issued in connection with the funding of the ATMI Merger. The Companys effective tax benefit rate was 161% in 2014 compared to 23% in 2013 . The change in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a change in the Company's geographic composition of income toward jurisdictions with lower tax rates, the nondeductibility of certain acquisition-related expenditures incurred in connection with the ATMI acquisition and the benefit of a foreign dividend. 35 Table of Contents As a result of the aforementioned factors, net income for 2014 was $8 million , or $0.06 per diluted share, compared to net income of $75 million , or $0.53 per diluted share, in 2013 . During 2014 , the Companys operating activities provided cash flow of $126 million . Cash used for the ATMI Merger, net of cash acquired, was $809 million , while capital expenditures were $58 million . Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $394 million at December 31, 2014 compared with $384 million at December 31, 2013 . The Company had long-term borrowings, including current maturities, of $767 million at December 31, 2014 and none at December 31, 2013 . Critical Accounting Policies Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, assumptions and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. At each balance sheet date, management evaluates its estimates, including, but not limited to, those related to inventories, long-lived assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identified intangibles), income taxes and business combinations. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. If management made different judgments or utilized different estimates, this could result in material differences in the amount and timing of the Companys results of operations for any period. In addition, actual results could be different from the Companys current estimates, possibly resulting in increased future charges to earnings. The critical accounting policies affected most significantly by estimates, assumptions and judgments used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements are discussed below. Inventory Valuation The Company uses certain estimates and judgments to properly value its inventory. The Companys inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market. The Company evaluates its ending inventories for obsolescence and excess quantities each quarter. This evaluation includes analyses of inventory levels, historical write-off trends, expected product lives, and historical and projected sales levels by product. Inventories that are considered obsolete are written off or a full allowance is recorded. In addition, allowances are established for inventory quantities in excess of forecasted demand. Inventory allowances were $11.9 million and $6.6 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The Companys inventories include materials and products subject to technological obsolescence, which are sold in highly competitive industries. If future demand or market conditions are less favorable than current conditions or the Companys projected outlook for sales, inventory write-downs or additional allowances may be required and would be reflected in cost of sales in the period the revision is made. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets As of December 31, 2014 , the Company had $313.6 million of net property, plant and equipment and $308.6 million of net intangible assets. The Company routinely considers whether indicators of impairment of the value of its long-lived assets, particularly its manufacturing equipment, and its intangible assets, are present. A long-lived asset (asset group) shall be tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. The following are examples of such events or changes in circumstances: a. A significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset (asset group) b. A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset (asset group) is being used or in its physical condition c. A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset (asset group), including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator d. An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset (asset group) e. A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset (asset group) f. A current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset (asset group) will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 36 Table of Contents If such indicators are present, it is determined whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows attributable to the asset group in question is less than its carrying value. If less, an impairment loss is recognized based on the excess of the carrying amount of the assets in the group over its respective fair value. Fair value is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows, appraisals or other methods deemed appropriate. If the asset groups determined to be impaired are to be held and used, the Company recognizes an impairment charge to the extent the fair value attributable to the asset group is less than the assets carrying value. The fair value of the assets then becomes the assets new carrying value, which is depreciated or amortized over the remaining estimated useful life of the assets. The Companys long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level (asset groups) for which the identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. As described above, the evaluation of the recoverability of long-lived assets requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, the identification of the asset group at the lowest level of independent cash flows, the primary asset of the group and long-range forecasts of revenue and costs, reflecting managements assessment of general economic and industry conditions, operating income, depreciation and amortization and working capital requirements. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates. In addition, changes in the underlying assumptions would have a significant impact on the conclusion that an asset groups carrying value is recoverable, or the determination of any impairment charge if it was determined that the asset values were indeed impaired. Based on current general economic conditions and trends within the semiconductor industry and the absence of any other triggering events, the Company has not been required to perform impairment testing for any of its asset groups. The Company will continue to monitor circumstances and events to determine whether asset impairment testing is warranted. It is possible that in the future the Company may no longer be able to conclude that there is no impairment of its long-lived assets, nor can the Company provide assurance that material impairment charges of long-lived assets will not occur in future periods. Goodwill The Company tests goodwill at least annually for impairment. Goodwill is also tested for impairment as changes in circumstances occur indicating that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to the carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. At December 31, 2014 , the Company had nine reporting units, five of which are assigned goodwill. As of August 31, 2014, the Companys annual testing date, the Company had five reporting units assigned goodwill. At that date, the estimated fair value of the two reporting units assigned goodwill in prior years was in excess of their respective carrying values. The fair value of the four reporting units to which goodwill was assigned in connection with the ATMI acquisition (see note 2 to the consolidated financial statements) approximates its purchase price, reflecting the recent acquisition thereof. While the Company believes the estimates and assumptions used in determining the fair value of its reporting units are reasonable, significant changes in estimates of future cash flows, such as those caused by unforeseen events or changes in market conditions, could materially impact the fair value of a reporting unit which could result in the recognition of a goodwill impairment charge. Income Taxes In the preparation of the Companys financial statements, the income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect managements best assessment of estimated current and future taxes to be paid. The Company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining consolidated income tax expense. Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the financial statements, which will result in taxable or deductible amounts in the future. In evaluating the Companys ability to recover its deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise, management considers all available positive and negative evidence, including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies, and results of recent operations. In projecting future taxable income, the Company begins with historical results adjusted for the results of discontinued operations and incorporates assumptions about the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income adjusted for items that do not have tax consequences. The assumptions about future taxable income require significant judgment and are consistent with the plans and estimates management is using to manage the underlying business. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, the Company considers three years of cumulative operating income. The Company has deferred tax assets related to certain federal and state credit carryforwards, and certain state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $15.3 million and $6.8 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Management believes it is more likely than not that the benefit from a portion of these carryforwards will not be realized. In recognition of this risk, the Company provided a valuation allowance of $11.1 million and $5.4 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 , 37 Table of Contents respectively, relating to these carryforwards. If the Companys assumptions change and it determines it will be able to realize these carryforwards, the tax benefits relating to any reversal of the valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets will be recognized as a reduction of income tax expense. The calculation of tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions across our global operations. A tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon examination, including resolutions of any related appeals or litigation processes, on the basis of the technical merits. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could have a material impact on the Companys financial condition and operating results. Business Acquisitions The Company accounts for acquired businesses using the acquisition method of accounting which requires that the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. The judgments made in determining the estimated fair value assigned to each class of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, as well as asset lives, can materially impact net income. Accordingly, for significant items, the Company typically obtains assistance from a third-party valuation firm. There are several methods that can be used to determine the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. For intangible assets, the Company normally utilizes the income method. This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows attributable to the subject intangible asset. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method (or other methods) include the projected future cash flows (including timing) and the discount rate reflecting the risks inherent in the future cash flows. Estimating the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. For example, different types of intangible assets will have different useful lives, influenced by the nature of the asset, competitive environment, and rate of change in the industry. Certain assets may even be considered to have indefinite useful lives. All of these judgments and estimates can significantly impact the determination of the amortization period of the intangible asset, and thus net income. In connection with the ATMI acquisition consummated in 2014, the final valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is expected to be completed as soon as possible, but no later than one year from the acquisition date. Given the size and complexity of the acquisition, the valuation of certain assets and liabilities, is still being completed, and is subject to final review. Specifically, certain property, plant and equipment and tax accounts are provisional pending the completion and review of such assets and liabilities. To the extent that the Company's estimates require adjustment, the Company will modify the values. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2014 compared to year ended December 31, 2013 The following table sets forth the results of operations and the relationship between various components of operations, stated as a percent of net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 . The Companys historical financial data was derived from its consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. 38 Table of Contents (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 % of net sales % of net sales Net sales $ 962,069 100.0 % $ 693,459 100.0 % Cost of sales 585,386 60.8 399,245 57.6 Gross profit 376,683 39.2 294,214 42.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 231,833 24.1 137,123 19.8 Engineering, research and development expenses 87,711 9.1 55,320 8.0 Amortization of intangible assets 37,067 3.9 9,347 1.3 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,282 ) (0.1 ) (1,813 ) (0.3 ) Operating income 21,354 2.2 94,237 13.6 Interest expense 33,355 3.5 153 Interest income (1,336 ) (0.1 ) (317 ) Other income, net 2,727 0.3 (1,794 ) (0.3 ) Income (loss) before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliates (13,392 ) (1.4 ) 96,195 13.9 Income tax (benefit) expense (21,572 ) (2.2 ) 21,669 3.1 Equity in net income of affiliates 293 Net income $ 7,887 0.8 $ 74,526 10.7 Net sales For the year ended December 31, 2014 , net sales were $962.1 million , up $268.6 million , or 39% , from sales for the year ended December 31, 2013 . An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in net sales is presented in the following table: (In thousands) 2014 Net sales in previous year $ 693,459 Increase associated with legacy Entegris volume and pricing 30,733 Decrease associated with effect of foreign currency translation (7.516 ) Increase associated with acquisition of ATMI, Inc 245,393 $ 962,069 The unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $7.5 million related to the year-over-year weakening of most international currencies versus the U.S. dollar, most notably the Japanese yen and Taiwanese dollar, offset partly by a stronger Korean won. Excluding the net sales of ATMI for the eight months subsequent to the ATMI merger and the unfavorable foreign currency translation effects, net sales rose approximately 4% in 2014 when compared to 2013 . The Company believes this sales increase was primarily volume driven and that the effect of selling price erosion was nominal. Overall demand from the semiconductor industry reflected improved demand from device makers, as wafer starts and semiconductor unit production increased, higher industry fab utilization rates and increased capital spending levels. Based on the information available, the Company believes sales of its products trailed industry growth measures for 2014. On a geographic basis, total sales to North America were 25% , Asia Pacific 51% , Europe 11% and Japan 13% in 2014 . Total sales to North America were 29% , Asia Pacific 43% , Europe 13% and Japan 15% in 2013 . When comparing 2014 to 2013 , all regions experienced year-over-year sales increases, primarily reflecting the ATMI sales. Net sales to customers in North America, Japan, Asia Pacific and Europe increased 18% , 19% , 66% and 17% , respectively, from 2013 to 2014 , generally due to the the inclusion of sales from ATMI. Net sales for Japan were affected by unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $7.8 million . Demand drivers for the Companys business primarily consist of semiconductor fab utilization and production (unit-driven) as well as capital spending for new or upgraded semiconductor fabrication equipment and facilities (capital-driven). The Company analyzes sales of its products by these two key drivers. Sales of unit-driven products represented 74% of total sales and sales of capital-driven products represented 26% of total sales in 2014 . This compares to a unit-driven to capital-driven ratio of 66% : 34% for 2013 . The shift toward unit-driven products reflects the inclusion of sales from ATMI, which are primarily unit-driven. 39 Table of Contents Gross profit Gross profit for 2014 increased by $82.5 million , to $376.7 million , an increase of 28% from $294.2 million for 2013 . The gross margin rate for 2014 was 39.2% versus 42.4% for 2013 . An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in gross profit is presented in the following table: (In thousands) 2014 Gross profit in previous year (legacy Entegris only) $ 294,214 Incremental cost of sales associated with fair value step-up related to sale of inventory acquired in ATMI acquisition (48,586 ) Increase associated with ATMI, Inc. net sales 118,431 Increase associated with legacy Entegris volume and pricing 12,624 $ 376,683 The increase in gross profit reflects the improvement in legacy Entegris sales and the inclusion of sales from ATMI. Despite the improvement in gross profit, the Company experienced a 39.2% gross margin rate compared to 42.4% in the comparable year-ago period. The gross margin percentage for 2014 was below the comparable year-ago figures primarily due to incremental cost of sales charge of $48.6 million associated with the sale of inventory acquired in the acquisition with ATMI. An inventory write-up of $48.6 million was recorded as part of the purchase price allocation and was amortized over the expected inventory turn of the acquired finished goods inventory. Excluding that charge, the Company's gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2014 was 44.2% . The adjusted gross margin rates exceeded the comparable year-ago figures mainly due to the increase in Company sales levels and, on average, higher margins for ATMI products. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) consists primarily of payroll and related expenses for the sales and administrative staff, professional fees (including accounting, legal and technology costs and expenses), and sales and marketing costs. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for 2014 increased $94.7 million , or 69% , to $231.8 million from $137.1 million in 2013 . An analysis of the factors underlying the increase in SG&A is presented in the following table: (In thousands) 2014 Selling, general and administrative expenses in previous year (legacy Entegris only) $ 137,123 Increase associated with ATMI, Inc. infrastructure 35,714 Increase in professional fees and other related to ATMI acquisition 8,152 Transaction-related expenses, including share-based compensation expense and related taxes associated with the unvested portion of ATMI share-based awards settled in cash 26,776 Integration expenditures 19,652 Other increases, net 4,416 $ 231,833 SG&A expenses, as a percent of net sales, increased to 24.1% from 19.8% a year earlier, reflecting the significant increase in SG&A expenditure levels primarily related ATMI merger and subsequent integration expenditures. Expenses associated with ATMI, including certain merger-related expenses, amounted to $66.2 million, or about 70% of the increase. Included in these expenses were costs of $30.5 million related to the ATMI acquisition, specifically $21.3 million for share-based compensation expense and related taxes associated with the unvested portion of ATMI share-based awards settled in cash on the date of the acquisition, as well as integration costs of $9.2 million, consisting primarily of severance and retention costs. In addition, legacy Entegris incurred SG&A expenses of $24.5 million in merger-related expenses, including deal costs, severance and termination costs, and other costs associated with the integration of the two operations. In addition to the increase in SG&A costs associated with ATMI's infrastructure, the Company expects SG&A costs to be higher than normal during the first half of 2015 as integration costs and related severance and retention costs will continue during this period. The Company expects overall SG&A costs will decline to normalized levels by the third quarter of 2015. Savings associated with integration efforts, primarily resulting from the combination of corporate staff functions, are expected to be realized in 2015. Engineering, research and development expenses Engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses related to the support of current product lines and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies increased by $32.4 million , or 59% , to $87.7 million in 2014 compared to $55.3 million in 2013 . ER&D expenses as a percent of net sales were 9.1% compared to 8.0% a year ago, reflecting the increase in ER&D expenditure levels, offset by the increase in net sales. In 2014, the Company continued to invest in its core 40 Table of Contents membrane and coatings technologies to create differentiated and high-value, unit-driven products for the most advanced and demanding semiconductor applications. ER&D expenses recorded by ATMI and included in the Company's consolidated financial statements amounted to $23.3 million, accounting for approximately 70% of the increase. The increase also reflect higher legacy Entegris ER&D activity levels, including increased employee costs, and customer samples and supplies expense of $6.0 million and $2.7 million for the year December 31, 2014 . The Company expects ER&D costs will increase in 2015 due to the addition of ATMI's ER&D infrastructure. However, these costs are expected to stay relatively stable as a percentage of net sales. The Companys overall ER&D efforts will continue to focus on the support or extension of current product lines, and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies. Contingent consideration fair value adjustment In the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 , the Company recognized an acquisition-related contingent consideration adjustments of $1.3 million and $1.8 million, respectively, reflecting changes in the fair value of contingent consideration liability associated with the Jetalon acquisition described in note 2 in the Companys consolidated financial statements. These adjustments to the contingent consideration liability reflect changes in Jetalon's revenue and gross profit forecasts for the three years ending December 31, 2015 and the estimated probability of achieving those projections. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets was $37.1 million in 2014 compared to $9.3 million for 2013 . The increase reflected the additional amortization associated with the identifiable intangible assets acquired in the ATMI merger. Interest expense Interest expense was $33.4 million and $0.2 million in the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 . The significant increase reflects the interest associated with the borrowings made by the Company in connection with the acquisition of ATMI as described in notes 2 and 7 to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Interest expense included interest on outstanding borrowings, the amortization of debt issuance costs associated with such borrowings and bridge financing costs of $4.0 million recorded in the second quarter. Other expense (income), net Other expense, net, was $2.7 million in 2014 compared to other income, net, of $1.8 million in 2013 . In 2014 , other expense includes foreign currency transaction losses of $1.1 million and an $1.9 million impairment loss recorded in connection with an equity investment, partially offset by $0.2 million in net realized gains on the sale of equity investments. In 2013 , other income includes foreign currency transaction gains of $2.3 million, partially offset by charges of $0.8 million associated with the realization of translation losses recorded upon the liquidation of certain of the Company's subsidiaries. Income tax expense The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $21.6 million in 2014 compared to an income tax expense of $21.7 million in 2013 . The Companys effective tax benefit rate was 161.1% in 2014 , compared to an effective tax rate of 22.5% in 2013 . The increase in the effective tax rate in 2014 from 2013 was primarily due to a change in the Company's geographic composition of income toward jurisdictions with lower tax rates and the benefit of a foreign dividend, reduced by the nondeductibility of certain acquisition-related expenditures incurred in connection with the ATMI acquisition. In 2013 , the Companys effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to lower rates in various foreign jurisdictions compared to the U.S. statutory rate. The effective tax rate in 2013 included a $1.7 million benefit associated with the reinstatement of the U.S. federal credit for increasing research expenditures, as retroactively signed into law and recorded by the Company in the first quarter of 2013 . Net income Net income was $7.9 million , or $0.06 per diluted share, in 2014 compared to net income of $74.5 million , or $0.53 per diluted share, in 2013 . The significant decrease reflects the Companys aforementioned operating results described in greater detail above, mainly reflecting the effect of the significant costs associated with the ATMI acquisition. Non-GAAP Measures Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. See Non-GAAP Information included below in this section for additional detail, including the reconciliation of GAAP measures to the Companys non-GAAP measures. The Companys non-GAAP financial measures are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income, together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). 41 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA increased 57% to $207.9 million in 2014 , compared to $132.2 million in 2013 . Adjusted EBITDA, as a percent of net sales, increased to 21.6% from 19.1% a year earlier. Adjusted Operating Income increased 57% to $161.3 million in 2014 , compared to $102.7 million in 2013 . Adjusted Operating Income, as a percent of net sales, increased to 16.8% from 14.8% a year earlier. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share increased 19% to $0.69 in 2014 , compared to $0.58 in 2013 . The improvement in the Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income measures reflect the increase in net sales and related increase in gross profit. In addition, Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was positively affected by a lower adjusted effective tax rate. Segment Analysis In 2014 the Company changed its financial segment reporting to reflect management and organizational changes made by the Company. Under the new structure, the manager of two segments is accountable for results at the segment profit level and reports directly to the Companys Chief Executive Officer, who is responsible for evaluating companywide performance and resource allocation decisions between the segments. Beginning in the second quarter, the Company reported its financial performance based on two reportable segments: Critical Materials Handling (CMH) and Electronic Materials (EM). See note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Companys two segments. The following table and discussion concern the results of operations of the Companys two reportable segments for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 . See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Companys two segments. (In thousands) 2014 2013 Critical Materials Handling Net sales $ 653,964 $ 609,826 Segment profit 138,379 128,910 Electronic Materials Net sales $ 308,105 $ 83,633 Segment profit 90,121 20,034 Critical Materials Handling (CMH) For the year ended December 31, 2014 , CMH net sales increased 7% to $654.0 million , from $609.8 million in 2013 , and primarily reflects the inclusion of sales of $30.4 million from ATMI. CMH reported a segment profit of $138.4 million in 2014 , up 7% from $128.9 million in 2013 also due to higher sales and a slightly favorable sales mix, partly offset by a 7% increase in operating expenses, mainly consisting of higher ER&D expenditures and costs associated with the ATMI infrastructure. Electronic Materials (EM) For the year ended December 31, 2014 , EM net sales increased to $308.1 million , up 268%, from $83.6 million in the comparable period last year. The sales increase also reflects the inclusion of sales of $214.4 million from ATMI, while the remainder reflected improved sales of gas microcontamination control systems products. EM reported a segment profit of $90.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to a $20.0 million segment profit in the year-ago period. The increase in the segment's profit is primarily associated with higher sales levels reflecting the sales of ATMI products and improved margins related to a more favorable sales mix, offset partly by costs associated with the ATMI infrastructure. Unallocated general and administrative expenses Unallocated general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2014 totaled $122.8 million compared to $47.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 . The inclusion of unallocated general and administrative expenses of $45.7 million recorded by ATMI accounted for approximately 60% of the increase. Included in the ATMI expenses was $21.3 million for share-based compensation expense and related taxes associated with the unvested portion of ATMI share-based awards settled in cash on the date of the Merger and integration costs of $9.2 million, consisting primarily of severance and retention costs. In addition, the Company incurred expenses of $9.1 million in connection with the completion of the ATMI merger, as well as the costs of integration of $19.7 million incurred since the date of the ATMI Merger. 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2013 compared to year ended December 31, 2012 The following table sets forth the results of operations and the relationship between various components of operations, stated as a percent of net sales, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. The Companys historical financial data was derived from its consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. (Dollars in thousands) 2013 2012 % of net sales % of net sales Net sales $ 693,459 100.0 % $ 715,903 100.0 % Cost of sales 399,245 57.6 408,520 57.1 Gross profit 294,214 42.4 307,383 42.9 Selling, general and administrative expenses 137,123 19.8 147,405 20.6 Engineering, research and development expenses 55,320 8.0 50,940 7.1 Amortization of intangible assets 9,347 1.3 9,594 1.3 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,813 ) (0.3 ) Operating income 94,237 13.6 99,444 13.9 Other income, net (1,958 ) (0.3 ) (259 ) Income before income taxes and equity in net loss of affiliates 96,195 13.9 99,703 13.9 Income tax expense 21,669 3.1 30,881 4.3 Equity in net income of affiliates (3 ) Net income $ 74,526 10.7 $ 68,825 9.6 Net sales For the year ended December 31, 2013, net sales were $693.5 million, down $22.4 million, or 3%, from sales for the year ended December 31, 2012. The year-over-year declines in net sales primarily reflected continued softness in semiconductor industry spending, though the Company experienced growth and signs of stabilization in the fourth quarter, and changes in foreign currency rates. In line with industry data, overall demand from the Company's semiconductor industry customers for 2013 reflected lower demand from leading edge fabs, aggregate fab utilization rates remained well below peak levels and semiconductor industry capital spending remained restrained. The Companys operating segments experienced mixed sales results. See the Segment analysis included below in this section for additional detail. The sales decrease in 2013 included unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $18.6 million related to the year-over-year weakening of most international currencies versus the U.S. dollar, most notably the Japanese yen. Excluding this factor, net sales fell approximately 1% in 2013 when compared to 2012. On a geographic basis, total sales to North America were 29%, Asia Pacific 43%, Europe 13% and Japan 15% in 2013. Total sales to North America were 31%, Asia Pacific 38%, Europe 12% and Japan 19% in 2012. When comparing 2013 to 2012, North America and Japan experienced year-over-year sales decreases, while Europe and Asia Pacific experience year-over-year sales increases. Net sales to customers in North America and Japan decreased 8% and 23%, respectively, while net sales to customers in Asia Pacific and Europe increased 8% and 5%, respectively, from 2012 to 2013. Net sales for Japan were affected by unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $22.7 million. Net sales to Europe were favorably affected by foreign currency translation effects of $3.6 million. Net of those effects, sales decreased 5% for Japan and increased 1% for Europe. Demand drivers for the Companys business primarily consist of semiconductor fab utilization and production (unit-driven) as well as capital spending for new or upgraded semiconductor fabrication equipment and facilities (capital-driven). The Company analyzes sales of its products by these two key drivers. Sales of unit-driven products represented 66% of total sales and sales of capital-driven products represented 34% of total sales in 2013. This compares to a unit-driven to capital-driven ratio of 66%:34% for 2012. Sales of unit-driven products decreased 3% in 2013. Unit-driven products generally have average lives of less than 18 months or need to be replaced based on usage levels. These products include liquid filters used in the photolithography, CMP and wet etch and clean processes, specialized graphite components, and wafer shippers used to ship raw wafers, particularly at wafer sizes of 200mm and below. 43 Table of Contents Year-over-year sales of capital-driven products decreased 3% in 2013. Capital-driven products include wafer process carriers, gas microcontamination control systems used in the deployment of advanced photolithography processes, fluid handling systems, including dispense pumps used in the photolithography process, and integrated liquid flow controllers used in various processes around the fab. The Company believes the sales decreases noted above are primarily volume driven. Based on the information available, the Company believes it improved or maintained market share for its products and that the effect of selling price erosion was nominal. Additionally, given that no single customer accounts for more than 10% of the Companys annual revenue, the decrease in sales has not been driven by any one particular customer or group of customers, but rather by the decline in semiconductor and other high-technology sectors as a whole. Gross profit Gross profit for 2013 decreased by $13.2 million, to $294.2 million, a decrease of 4% from $307.4 million for 2012. The gross margin rate for 2013 was 42.4% versus 42.9% for 2012. The year-over-year sales decrease, including a $3.7 million reduction in royalty revenue, primarily accounted for the Companys lower gross profit and gross margin in 2013. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for 2013 decreased $10.3 million, or 7%, to $137.1 million from $147.4 million in 2012. SG&A expenses, as a percent of net sales, decreased to 19.8% from 20.6% a year earlier, reflecting a decrease in SG&A expenditure levels. Employee costs, which make up approximately two-thirds of SG&A expenses, decreased by $2.4 million for 2013. The decrease also reflected a decline in consulting and professional fees of $1.9 million as well as the $3.9 million reduction in SG&A expense related to the 2012 CEO succession and transition plan. Also included in the decrease in SG&A expenses for 2013 compared to the year-ago period is a $0.7 million reduction in SG&A expense during the second quarter of 2013 related to the sale of a building classified as an asset held for sale, consisting of the gain on sale thereof and an adjustment to the real estate tax accrual for the building and the favorable settlement of value-added tax matters in Europe ($1.2 million). In addition, the decrease in SG&A costs reflected favorable foreign currency translation effects of $2.9 million. Engineering, research and development expenses Engineering, research and development (ER&D) expenses related to the support of current product lines and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies increased by $4.4 million, or 9%, to $55.3 million in 2013 compared to $50.9 million in 2012. ER&D expenses as a percent of net sales were 8.0% compared to 7.1% a year ago, reflecting both the increase in ER&D expenditure levels and decrease in net sales. The increase in ER&D expense mainly reflects higher employee costs of $1.8 million and a general increase in overall ER&D expense levels related to the support of current product lines and the development of new products and manufacturing technologies to support the Company's customers' next-generation processes. Contingent consideration fair value adjustment In the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company recognized an acquisition-related contingent consideration adjustment of $1.8 million reflecting changes in the fair value of contingent consideration associated with the Jetalon acquisition described in note 2 in the Companys consolidated financial statements. This adjustment reflects changes in the revenue and gross profit forecasts for the three years ending December 31, 2015 and the estimated probability of achieving those projections. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization of intangible assets was $9.3 million in 2013 compared to $9.6 million for 2012. Other income, net Other income was $2.0 million in 2013 compared to other income of $0.3 million in 2012. In 2013, other income includes foreign currency transaction gains of $2.3 million, partially offset by charges of $0.8 million associated with the realization of translation losses recorded upon the liquidation of certain of the Company's subsidiaries. In 2012, other income includes a $1.5 million gain recorded in the second quarter related to the remeasurement of the previously held 50% equity investment in a Taiwan joint venture entity in which the Company acquired a 100% interest in April 2012. The other income was partially offset by $1.4 million of foreign currency transaction losses related to the remeasurement of yen-denominated assets and liabilities held by the Company. Income tax expense The Company recorded income tax expense of $21.7 million in 2013 compared to an income tax expense of $30.9 million in 2012. The Companys effective tax rate was 22.5% in 2013, compared to 31.0% in 2012. The lower rate in 2013 reflects changes in the Company's geographic composition of income toward jurisdictions with lower tax rates. The effective tax rate in 2013 also included a $1.7 million associated with the reinstatement of the U.S. federal credit 44 Table of Contents for increasing research expenditures, as retroactively signed into law in 2013 and recorded by the Company in the first quarter of 2013. In 2012, the Companys effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 35% primarily due to lower rates in various foreign jurisdictions compared to the U.S. statutory rate. Net income Net income was $74.5 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, in 2013 compared to net income of $68.8 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, in 2012. The increase reflects the Companys aforementioned operating results described in greater detail above. Non-GAAP Measures Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also utilizes certain non-GAAP financial measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. See Non-GAAP Information included below in this section for additional detail, including the reconciliation of GAAP measures to the Companys non-GAAP measures. The Companys non-GAAP financial measures are Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income, together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). Adjusted EBITDA decreased 6% to $132.2 million in 2013, compared to $141.0 million in 2012. Adjusted EBITDA, as a percent of net sales, decreased to 19.1% from 19.7% a year earlier. Adjusted Operating Income decreased 9% to $102.7 million in 2013, compared to $113.0 million in 2012. Adjusted Operating Income, as a percent of net sales, decreased to 14.8% from 15.8% a year earlier. Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share increased 5% to $0.58 in 2013, compared to $0.55 in 2012. The decline in the Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income measures reflect the reduction in net sales and related decrease in gross profit. In addition, Non-GAAP Earnings Per Share was positively affected by a lower effective tax rate. Segment Analysis The following table and discussion concern the results of operations of the Companys two business segments for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on the Companys two segments. (In thousands) 2013 2012 Critical Materials Handling Net sales $ 609,826 $ 630,929 Segment profit 128,910 144,758 Electronic Materials Net sales $ 83,633 $ 84,974 Segment profit 20,034 21,051 Critical Materials Handling (CMH) For the year ended December 31, 2013, CMH net sales decreased 3%, to $609.8 million, from $630.9 million in the comparable period last year. Net of unfavorable foreign currency effects of $16.4 million, primarily related to weakness in the Japanese yen, CMH net sales decreased 1%. CMH sales decrease primarily reflected lower sales of liquid filtration products, fluid components and systems and decrease in royalty revenue. Gas filtration products were flat. CMH reported a segment profit of $128.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $144.8 million in the comparable period last year, a decrease of $15.8 million, or 11%. The decrease in sales volume and a slightly unfavorable sales mix combined to reduce gross profit, which along with a 2% increase in operating expenses accounted for the decline in segment profit. Electronic Materials (EM) For the year ended December 31, 2013, EM net sales decreased 2%, to $83.6 million, versus $85.0 million in the comparable period last year. Net of unfavorable foreign currency effects of approximately $2.2 million, EM net sales increased 1%. EM reported a segment profit of $20.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $21.1 million in the comparable period last year, a decrease of 5%. The decrease in the segment's gross profit associated with lower sales levels and a 5% increase of operating expenses, accounted for the decrease in segment profit. 45 Table of Contents Unallocated general and administrative expenses Unallocated general and administrative expenses totaled $47.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $56.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. The decrease primarily reflected lower employee costs ($4.4 million) and professional fees ($1.4 million). Included in the employee cost decline is a $3.9 million charge recorded in 2012 associated with compensation to which the Companys current chief executive officer was entitled in connection with the succession and transition plan. Figures for 2013 included reductions in unallocated general and administrative expenses related to the sale of a building classified as assets held for sale, consisting of the gain on sale thereof, and an adjustment to the real estate tax accrual for the building ($0.7 million) and the favorable settlement of value-added tax matters in Europe ($1.2 million). Quarterly Results of Operations The following table presents selected data from the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the eight quarters ended December 31, 2014 . This unaudited information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this annual report. All adjustments that management considers necessary for the fair presentation of the unaudited information have been included in the quarters presented. QUARTERLY STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA (UNAUDITED) 2013 2014 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 (In thousands) Net sales $ 165,070 $ 177,544 $ 164,585 $ 186,260 $ 165,804 $ 251,578 $ 273,054 $ 271,633 Gross profit 67,128 77,570 70,132 79,384 71,352 88,668 98,743 117,920 Selling, general and administrative expenses 32,421 35,397 31,746 37,559 34,787 82,347 55,820 58,879 Engineering, research and development expenses 12,173 13,427 13,947 15,773 15,690 21,581 24,427 26,013 Amortization of intangible assets 2,287 2,359 2,343 2,358 2,336 9,390 13,128 12,213 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,813 ) (1,282 ) Operating income 20,247 26,387 23,909 23,694 18,539 (23,368 ) 5,368 20,815 Net income 16,397 19,781 17,807 20,541 14,312 (14,669 ) (1,068 ) 9,312 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 (Percent of net sales) Net sales 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Gross profit 40.7 43.7 42.6 42.6 43.0 35.2 36.2 43.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 19.6 19.9 19.3 20.2 21.0 32.7 20.4 21.7 Engineering, research and development expenses 7.4 7.6 8.5 8.5 9.5 8.6 8.9 9.6 Amortization of intangibles 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.4 3.7 4.8 4.5 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1.1 ) (0.5 ) Operating income 12.3 14.9 14.5 12.7 11.2 (9.3 ) 2.0 7.7 Net income 9.9 11.1 10.8 11.0 8.6 (5.8 ) (0.4 ) 3.4 The Companys quarterly results of operations have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations due to a myriad of factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control. The variability in sales, and its corresponding effect on gross profit, is the single most important factor underlying the changes in the Companys operating income and net income over the past eight quarters. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has historically financed its operations and capital requirements through cash flow from its operating activities, long-term loans, lease financing and borrowings under domestic and international short-term lines of credit. In fiscal 2000 and 2009, the Company raised capital via public offerings of its common stock. Operating activities Net cash flow provided by operating activities totaled $126.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Cash generated by the Companys operations included net income of $7.9 million , as adjusted for the impact of various non-cash charges, 46 Table of Contents primarily depreciation and amortization of $83.7 million , charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold of $48.6 million and share-based compensation expense of $8.9 million . The net impact on cash flow from operations from changes in operating assets reduced cash otherwise generated by the Companys operations. Working capital was $503.1 million at December 31, 2014 , which included $389.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, a decrease from $514.7 million as of December 31, 2013 , which included $384.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. Accounts receivable increased by $52.1 million during 2014 , or $4.8 million after accounting for the effect of the ATMI acquisition and foreign currency translation. The net increase reflects the year-over-year improvement in fourth quarter sales of the Companys products. The Companys days sales outstanding measure (DSO) stood at 52 days at December 31, 2014 compared to 50 days at the beginning of the year. Inventories at December 31, 2014 increased by $69.1 million from a year earlier, or $11.6 million after accounting for the effect of the ATMI acquisition, foreign currency translation and the provision for excess and obsolete inventory. The increase primarily reflects increases in the Company's finished goods inventories. Accounts payable and accrued expenses were $61.8 million higher than a year ago, or $14.3 million higher after accounting for the effect of the ATMI acquisition and foreign currency translation. In part, the increase reflects a $5.6 million increase in accrued interest payable related to the long-term debt. The Company made income tax payments, net of refunds, of $12.3 million in 2014 . Investing activities Cash flow used in investing activities totaled $860.3 million in 2014 . As noted above and described in note 2 to the Company's consolidated financial statements, on April 30, 2014 , the Company acquired ATMI for approximately $1.1 billion in cash pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger with ATMI. The acquisition is reflected in the Company's consolidated statements of cash flows net of cash of $321.1 million acquired from ATMI, or $809.4 million . Acquisition of property and equipment totaled $57.7 million , which primarily reflected significant investments in equipment and tooling to manufacture 450mm wafer handling products and to establish an advanced membrane manufacturing and development center for critical filtration applications. As of December 31, 2014 , the Company expects its capital expenditures in 2015 to be approximately $60 million, as the Company's capital expenditure plans will generally reflect more normalized capital spending levels. Financing activities Cash flow provided by financing activities totaled $747.6 million during 2014 . On April 1, 2014 , the Company issued $360 million aggregate principal amount of 6% senior unsecured notes due April 1, 2022 . In addition the Company entered into the senior secured term loan facility on April 30, 2014 in an aggregate principal amount of $460 million , receiving $457.7 million net of original issue discount of $2.3 million . The senior secured term loan is due April 30, 2021 . During the year ended December 31, 2014 , the Company made a payment of $51.2 million on the senior secured term loan facility. The Company also entered into a senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility maturing April 30, 2019 that provides financing of $75 million , subject to a borrowing base. The senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility is due April 30, 2019 . As of December 31, 2014 , the Company had no outstanding borrowings and $0.3 million undrawn on outstanding letters of credit under the senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. The Company's prior revolving credit facility was terminated upon consummation of the ATMI acquisition. Further information concerning these items can be found in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company incurred debt issuance costs of $20.7 million in connection with the above debt instruments. Through December 31, 2014 , the Company was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants included in the terms of the senior unsecured notes, its senior secured term loan facility and its senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. The Company also has a line of credit with two banks that provide for borrowings of Japanese yen for the Companys Japanese subsidiary equivalent to an aggregate of approximately $10.0 million . There were no outstanding borrowings under these lines of credit at December 31, 2014 . 47 Table of Contents The Company received proceeds of $3.6 million in connection with common shares issued under the Companys stock plans less $2.5 million paid for taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash flow provided by financing activities also included $0.8 million related to excess tax benefits associated with such employee stock plan activity. At December 31, 2014 , the Companys shareholders equity stood at $748.4 million , down 1% from $756.8 million at the beginning of the year. The decrease reflected unfavorable foreign currency translation effects of $26.9 million , which primarily reflect the effect of the stronger U.S. dollar versus most currencies in 2014, which were offset by net income of $7.9 million , additional paid-in capital of $8.9 million associated with the Companys share-based compensation expense, $1.1 million received in connection with common shares issued under the Companys stock option and employee stock purchase plans, and a tax benefit associated with employee stock plan activity of $0.8 million . As of December 31, 2014 , the Companys sources of available funds were its cash and cash equivalents of $389.7 million , funds available under its senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility and international credit facilities and cash flow generated from operations. As of December 31, 2014 , the amount of cash and cash equivalents associated with indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings was $301 million . These amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. income taxation on repatriation to the United States. The Company does not anticipate the need to repatriate funds to the United States to satisfy domestic liquidity needs arising in the ordinary course of business and believes its existing balances of domestic cash and cash equivalents and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet the Companys domestic cash needs arising in the ordinary course of business for the next twelve months. If available liquidity is not sufficient to meet the Companys operating and debt service obligations as they come due, management would need to pursue alternative arrangements through additional equity or debt financing in order to meet the Companys cash requirements. There can be no assurance that any such financing would be available on commercially acceptable terms. New Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 outlines a new, single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. This new revenue recognition model provides a five-step analysis in determining when and how revenue is recognized. The new model will require revenue recognition to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration a company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 is effective beginning January 1, 2017. The Company is currently assessing the impact that adopting this new accounting guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements and disclosures. Refer to Note 1 to the Companys consolidated financial statements for a discussion of accounting pronouncements implemented in 2014 . Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the maturities of the Companys significant financial obligations as of December 31, 2014 : (In thousands) Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Long-term debt $ 766,796 $ 26,597 $ $ $ $ $ 740,199 Pension obligations 8,102 195 129 239 264 216 7,059 Capital purchase obligations 1 12,836 12,836 Operating leases 27,092 10,708 6,810 4,596 3,738 948 292 Total $ 814,826 $ 50,336 $ 6,939 $ 4,835 $ 4,002 $ 1,164 $ 747,550 Unrecognized tax benefits 2 1. Capital purchase obligations represent commitments for the construction or purchase of property, plant and equipment. They were not recorded as liabilities on the Companys consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2014 , as the Company had not yet received the related goods or taken title to the property. 2. The Company had $6.0 million of total gross unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2014 . The timing of any payments associated with these unrecognized tax benefits will depend on a number of factors. Accordingly, the 48 Table of Contents Company cannot make reasonably reliable estimates of the amount and period of potential cash settlements, if any, with taxing authorities and are not included in the table above. Non-GAAP Information The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). The Company also provides certain non-GAAP financial measures as a complement to financial measures provided in accordance with GAAP in order to better assess and reflect trends affecting the Companys business and results of operations. Regulation G, Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures , and other regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, define and prescribe the conditions for use of certain non-GAAP financial information. The Company provides non-GAAP financial measures of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income together with related measures thereof, and non-GAAP Earnings Per Share (EPS). Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net income before (1) equity in net loss (income) of affiliates, (2) income tax (benefit) expense, (3) interest expense (4) interest income (5) other expense (income), net, (6) charge for the fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, (7) transaction-related costs, (8) deal costs, (9) integration costs, (10) contingent consideration fair value adjustment, (11) charge associated with CEO succession and transition plan, (12) amortization of intangible assets and (13) depreciation. Adjusted Operating Income, another non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as Adjusted EBITDA exclusive of the depreciation addback noted above. The Company also utilizes non-GAAP measures whereby Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income are each divided by the Companys net sales to derive Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Adjusted Operating Margin, respectively. Non-GAAP EPS, a non-GAAP term, is defined by the Company as net (loss) income before (1) charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, (2) transaction-related costs, (3) deal costs, (4) integration costs, (5) contingent consideration fair value adjustment, (6) reclassification of cumulative translation adjustment associated with liquidated subsidiary (7) charge associated with CEO succession and transition plan, (8) loss (gain) on impairment/sale of short-term and equity investments, (9) amortization of intangible assets and (10) the tax effect of those adjustments to net (loss) income. The charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold, transaction-related costs, deal costs and integration costs adjustments underlying Adjusted EBITDA and Non-GAAP EPS relate specifically to the ATMI acquisition. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial measures to better understand and manage its business and believes these measures provide investors and analysts additional and meaningful information for the assessment of the Companys ongoing results. Management also uses these non-GAAP measures to assist in the evaluation of the performance of its business segments and to make operating decisions. Management believes the Companys non-GAAP measures help indicate the Companys baseline performance before certain gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of the Companys business or future outlook and offer a useful view of business performance in that the measures provide a more consistent means of comparing performance. The Company believes the non-GAAP measures aid investors overall understanding of the Companys results by providing a higher degree of transparency for such items and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how management plans, measures and evaluates the Companys business performance. Management believes that the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in its financial reporting and facilitates investors understanding of the Companys historical operating trends by providing an additional basis for comparisons to prior periods. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Operating Income to assist it in evaluations of the Companys operating performance by excluding items that management does not consider as relevant in the results of its ongoing operations. Internally, these non-GAAP measures are used by management for planning and forecasting purposes, including the preparation of internal budgets; for allocating resources to enhance financial performance; for evaluating the effectiveness of operational strategies; and for evaluating the Companys capacity to fund capital expenditures, secure financing and expand its business. In addition, and as a consequence of the importance of these non-GAAP financial measures in managing its business, the Companys Board of Directors uses non-GAAP financial measures in the evaluation process to determine management compensation. The Company believes that certain analysts and investors use Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Operating Income and non-GAAP EPS as supplemental measures to evaluate the overall operating performance of firms in the Companys industry. Additionally, lenders or potential lenders use Adjusted EBITDA measures to evaluate the Companys creditworthiness. 49 Table of Contents The presentation of non-GAAP financial measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP. Management strongly encourages investors to review the Companys consolidated financial statements in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure. Management notes that the use of non-GAAP measures has limitations: First, non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized. Accordingly, the methodology used to produce the Companys non-GAAP financial measures is not computed under GAAP and may differ notably from the methodology used by other companies. For example, the Companys non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EBITDA may not be directly comparable to EBITDA or an adjusted EBITDA measure reported by other companies. Second, the Companys non-GAAP financial measures exclude items such as amortization and depreciation that are recurring. Amortization of intangibles and depreciation have been, and will continue to be for the foreseeable future, a significant recurring expense with an impact upon the Companys results of operations, notwithstanding the lack of immediate impact upon cash flows. Third, there is no assurance the Company will not have future restructuring activities, gains or losses on sale of equity investments, contingent consideration fair value adjustments or similar items and, therefore, may need to record additional charges (or credits) associated with such items, including the tax effects thereon. The exclusion of these items from the Companys non-GAAP measures should not be construed as an implication that these costs are unusual, infrequent or non-recurring. Management considers these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP amounts excluded from these non-GAAP financial measures and evaluating these non-GAAP financial measures together with their most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. The calculations of Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted operating income, and non-GAAP EPS, and reconciliations between these financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP equivalents are presented below in the accompanying tables. The reconciliation of GAAP measures to Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 Net sales $ 962,069 $ 693,459 $ 715,903 Net income $ 7,887 $ 74,526 $ 68,825 Adjustments to net income Equity in net loss (income) of affiliates 293 (3 ) Income tax (benefit) expense (21,572 ) 21,669 30,881 Interest expense 33,355 153 271 Interest income (1,336 ) (317 ) (281 ) Other expense (income), net 2,727 (1,794 ) (249 ) GAAP Operating income 21,354 94,237 99,444 Charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold 48,586 Transaction-related costs 26,776 Deal costs 9,125 973 Integration costs 19,652 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,282 ) (1,813 ) Charge associated with CEO succession and transition plan 3,928 Amortization of intangible assets 37,067 9,347 9,594 Adjusted operating income 161,278 102,744 112,966 Depreciation 46,637 29,468 28,013 Adjusted EBITDA $ 207,915 $ 132,212 $ 140,979 Adjusted operating margin 16.8 % 14.8 % 15.8 % Adjusted EBITDA as a % of net sales 21.6 % 19.1 % 19.7 % 50 Table of Contents The reconciliation of GAAP measures to Non-GAAP Earnings per Share for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 are presented below: (Dollars in thousands) 2014 2013 2012 GAAP net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. $ 7,887 $ 74,526 $ 68,825 Adjustments to net income: Charge for fair value write-up of acquired inventory sold 48,586 Transaction-related costs 26,776 Deal costs 13,288 973 Integration costs 19,510 Contingent consideration fair value adjustment (1,282 ) (1,813 ) Reclassification of cumulative translation adjustments adjustments associated with liquidated subsidiaries 787 Charge associated with CEO succession and transition plan 3,928 Net loss (gain) on impairment/sale of short-term investment or equity investments 1,710 (1,522 ) Amortization of intangible assets 37,067 9,347 9,594 Tax effect of adjustments to net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. (56,819 ) (3,044 ) (4,643 ) Non-GAAP net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. $ 96,723 $ 80,776 $ 76,182 Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Entegris, Inc. $ 0.06 $ 0.53 $ 0.50 Effect of adjustments to net income attributable to Entegris, Inc. $ 0.63 $ 0.04 $ 0.05 Diluted non-GAAP earnings per common share attributable to Entegris, Inc. $ 0.69 $ 0.58 $ 0.55 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risks Entegris principal financial market risks are sensitivities to interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys interest-bearing cash equivalents and short-term investments are subject to interest rate fluctuations. The Companys cash equivalents are instruments with maturities of three months or less. A 100 basis point change in interest rates would potentially increase or decrease annual net income by approximately $0.1 million annually. The cash flows and results of operations of the Companys foreign-based operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. The Company occasionally uses derivative financial instruments to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risks associated with its foreign-based operations. At December 31, 2014 , the Company had no net exposure to any foreign currency forward contracts. 51 Table of Contents