Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY We intend to build upon our position as a leading worldwide developer, manufacturer and supplier of advanced specialty materials, filtration and purification solutions, delivery systems, and materials packaging solutions to expand our core business and to grow in other high value-added manufacturing process markets. Our strategy includes the following key elements: Commitment to Technology Leadership . We continuously improve our products and develop new products as our customers needs evolve. As semiconductor devices become smaller and more powerful, and new materials and processes are deployed to produce them, we seek to expand our technological capabilities by developing advanced products that address the requirements for greater purification, protection and transport of high value-added materials and by developing advanced chemical materials for use in critical fabrication processes. Leveraging our Expertise . We leverage our broad expertise across our portfolio of advanced materials, materials handling and purification capabilities to create innovative new solutions to address unmet customer needs. For example, our industry-leading post-CMP cleaning chemistry is developed and manufactured by our SCEM segment, with collaboration from our MC segment, packaged with our ultra clean container and connector system made by our AMH segment, and delivered to the process tools through fluid handling systems also made by our AMH segment. Furthermore, in the process tool, these chemistries may go through one or several purification systems made by our MC segment to eliminate particles and contaminants. Another example of the results of this strategy is our advanced deposition materials business, where we leverage our ability to synthesize unique molecules, our knowledge of how to purify these materials, and our capability to safely transport these materials and deliver them onto the wafer at the highest throughput. We seek to utilize our diverse and unique expertise in areas of increasing importance to semiconductor manufacturers, such as developing advanced materials and ensuring the purity of high-value materials, and our ability to work collaboratively across our three segments, which enables us to quickly and effectively develop optimized and complimentary solutions for our customers. Operational Excellence . Our strategy is to continue to develop our advanced manufacturing capabilities into a competitive advantage with our customers by focusing on the following priorities: use of manufacturing equipment and facilities incorporating leading-edge technology including advanced cleanroom and cleaning procedures; implementation of standardized manufacturing systems stressing optimization of equipment effectiveness, predictive maintenance, and direct labor productivity; implementation of automated quality systems that provide both process monitoring and process control throughout the manufacturing process as well as predictive quality data to mitigate against potential quality excursions; implementation of supply chain management systems that assure a reliable and responsive supply of high-quality raw materials; conduct of manufacturing operations to assure the safety of our employees and of the individuals using our products; and maintaining an agile manufacturing organization that is capable of rapid design and development of prototypes of new and derivative products, as well as promptly responding to customer feedback concerning prototypes so that we quickly commercialize and ramp production acceptable to our customers. Continued Focus on Customers . We view the strong relationships we have with our customers, which include leading semiconductor manufacturers, OEMs, and semiconductor materials suppliers, as critical to our long term success. We intend to reinforce and further strengthen these relationships, through, among other things, collaborations and joint development. Customer intimacy enables us to respond rapidly and thoroughly to their manufacturing challenges and enables us to bring forth new products that serve an existing need. Adjacent Markets . We leverage our expertise in the semiconductor industry by developing products for other industries that employ similar technologies and production processes and that utilize materials integrity management, high-purity fluids and integrated dispense systems. For example, outside of the semiconductor industry, our products are used in manufacturing processes for flat panel displays, high-purity chemicals, solar cells, optical magnetic storage devices and products for life sciences. We plan to continue to identify and develop products that address needs in adjacent markets. We believe that by utilizing our technology to provide manufacturing solutions across multiple industries, we are able to increase the total available market for our products and reduce, to an extent, our exposure to the cyclicality of the semiconductor industry. 5 Table of Contents Strategic Acquisitions, Partnerships and Related Transactions . We will continue to pursue strategic acquisitions and business partnerships that enable us to address gaps in our product offerings, secure new customers, diversify into complementary product markets, broaden our technological capabilities and product offerings, access local or regional markets and achieve benefits of increased scale. For example, in June 2018, we acquired from SAES Getters S.p.A. the SAES Pure Gas business, a leading provider of high-capacity gas purification systems used in semiconductor manufacturing and adjacent markets, which now reports into our Microcontamination Control division, enabling us to offer a complete portfolio of gas purifications solutions for both bulk and specialty gases to our customers. In January 2018, we acquired Particle Sizing Systems, LLC, a company focused on particle sizing instrumentation for liquid applications in both semiconductor and life science industries, which enables customers to perform particle size analysis online and in real time, directly in fluid stream process, preventing costly yield excursions. In April 2017, we acquired the water and chemical filtration product line for microelectronics applications from W. L. Gore & Associates, Inc., or Gore, where we acquired a synergistic product line that leverages our existing platform and expands our served markets. Our 2014 acquisition of ATMI, Inc., or ATMI, brought a whole new portfolio of technologies and materials products to serve our semiconductor customers. Further, as the dynamics of the markets that we serve shift, we will reevaluate our existing businesses and in the event that we conclude that a business is not able to provide value-added solutions to its markets in a manner that contributes to achieving our financial objectives, we expect to restructure or replace that business, such as the sale of our small cleaning business in France. Finally, we are continuously evaluating opportunities for strategic alliances, such as our strategic alliance with Enthone, joint development programs and collaborative marketing efforts with key customers and other industry leaders. For example, in connection with our strategic commitment to support the growing semiconductor and related microelectronics industries in China, in 2017, we entered into agreements with local partners to expand our capability to manufacture our specialty chemical and deposition products locally and shorten our supply chain for our customers in China. OUR SEGMENTS As discussed, our business is organized and operated in three operating segments which align with the key elements of the advanced semiconductor manufacturing ecosystem: Specialty Chemicals and Engineered Materials, or SCEM; Microcontamination Control, or MC; and Advanced Materials Handling, or AMH. We leverage our expertise from these three segments to create new and increasingly integrated solutions for our customers. The following is a detailed description of our three segments: SPECIALTY CHEMICALS AND ENGINEERED MATERIALS SEGMENT The SCEM segment provides high-performance and high-purity process chemistries, gases, and materials that enable enhanced device performance. These materials are utilized in critical semiconductor manufacturing processes such as deposition, cleaning, and integration of complex materials. Advanced materials, delivered at high purity, are critical to enabling the performance of leading-edge logic and memory applications. We believe the growing demand in the 3D-NAND market, challenges with metallization schemes and the need for specialized cleaning solutions will drive consumption for materials in our SCEM segment. In conjunction with products from our MC and AMH segments, the materials in our SCEM segment provide unique solutions to safely and efficiently deliver critical materials to support semiconductor and other advanced manufacturing processes. Specialty Gas Products . Our specialty gas solutions provide advanced safety and process capabilities to semiconductor, display and solar panel manufacturers. Our SDS cylinders store and deliver hazardous gases, such as arsine, phosphine, germanium tetrafluoride and boron trifluoride, at sub-atmospheric pressure through the use of our proprietary carbon-based adsorbent materials. These products minimize potential leaks during transportation and use and allow more gas to be stored in the cylinder, features which provide significant safety, environmental and productivity benefits over traditional high-pressure cylinders. New generations of SDS products further increase the gas storage capacity, reducing tool down time, therefore, resulting in significant cost savings for our customers. We also offer VAC, a complementary technology to SDS, where select implant gases and gas mixtures are stored under high pressure but delivered sub-atmospherically. Specialty Materials Products . Our specialty materials include specialized graphite, silicon carbide, thermally conductive foam and a variety of unique, high purity coatings for dry or plasma etch, chemical vapor deposition and ion implant applications. Our POCO premium graphite is used to make precision consumable electrodes for electrical discharge machining, hot glass contact materials for glass product manufacturing and forming, and other consumable products for various industrial applications, including aerospace, optical, medical devices, air bearings and printing. Our high-performance specialty coatings, such as our Pegasus and our latest development Cearus coatings, provide erosion resistance, minimize particle generation and prevent contamination on critical components in semiconductor environments and other high-technology manufacturing operations. Our specialty materials provide customized solutions for applications challenged with unique temperature, corrosive, chemical or process environments, such as electrostatic chucks used to hold wafers during processing, plasma etch chamber components, aircraft bearings, and ultrasonic transducers. 6 Table of Contents Advanced Deposition Materials Products . Our advanced deposition materials include advanced liquid, gaseous and solid precursors which are incorporated in chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and atomic layer deposition (ALD) processes by the semiconductor industry, including organometallic precursors for the deposition of tungsten, titanium, cobalt and aluminum containing films and organosilane precursors for the deposition of silicon oxide and silicon nitride films. These precursors are designed in close collaboration with OEM process tool manufacturers as well as device makers to produce application specific solutions that are compatible with complex integrations of material solutions used to build the semiconductor device. We offer containers that allow for reliable storage and delivery of low volatility solid and liquid precursors required in ALD processes. When combined with our proprietary corrosion resistant coatings and filtration solutions from our MC segment, our advanced deposition materials enable the industrys highest purity levels, resulting in improved device performance. Surface Preparation and Integration Products . We offer a range of materials used to prepare the surface of a semiconductor wafer during the manufacturing process and to integrate with materials being used on the wafer. We also provide advanced plating solutions, such as our Viaform product (a trademark of and exclusively licensed from Enthone Inc., or Enthone, a subsidiary of Platform Specialty Products Corporation), which includes inorganic and proprietary organic molecules that provide the wiring for copper interconnects. We also offer CMP cleaning solutions for applications such as semiconductor post-etch residue removal, wafer etching, organics removal, negative resist removal, edge bead removal, and corrosion prevention. Our wet chemistries solutions, combined with filtration solutions from our MC segment and fluid handling solutions from our AMH segment, provide enhanced purity, which results in improvements in our customers processes. Our consumable PVA roller brush products are used to clean the wafer following the CMP process and our pad conditioners, based on our silicon carbide capabilities, lengthen CMP pad life. MICROCONTAMINATION CONTROL SEGMENT The MC segment offers solutions to purify critical liquid chemistries and gases used in semiconductor manufacturing processes and other high-technology industries. The design and performance of our liquid and gas filtration and purification products are important to the semiconductor manufacturing process because they remove contamination and directly reduce defects and improve manufacturing yield. Our proprietary filters remove organic and inorganic nanometer-sized contaminants from the different fluids and gases used in the manufacturing process, including photolithography, deposition, planarization and surface etching and cleaning. As our customers leverage leading edge lithography tools and multi-patterning technology to enable each subsequent generation of products, our filtration and purification products are utilized to achieve necessary levels of purity and contamination control. We believe demand for purification and filtration products is being driven by the continuous node shrink in logic semiconductors and the ramp in the 3D-NAND market, as the risk of yield loss grows with the incremental manufacturing steps needed for the production of these devices. We utilize expertise from the AMH segment in polymer science and from the SCEM segment in chemical manufacturing to develop differentiated filtration and purification solutions for our customers. Liquid Microcontamination Control Products . We offer a variety of unique products that are optimized to control contaminants in our customers liquid processes. For example, our Torrento series of filters is used for the filtration of aggressive acid and base chemistries for both semiconductor fabs as well as specialty chemical manufacturers including our SCEM segment. Manufacturers of high purity chemicals as well as semiconductor fabs use our Trinzik products for the filtration of chemicals as well as ultra-pure water. Our Impact series of filters are used in point-of-use photochemical dispense applications, including those provided by our AMH segment, where the delivery of superior flow rate performance and reduced microbubble formation is critical. Gas Microcontamination Control Products . We offer a complete portfolio of products designed to remove particulate and molecular contaminates from gas streams from the point of creation on the gas pads to the point of use at the wafer in semiconductor, flat panel display and LED fabs. In addition, we provide products used to eliminate airborne molecular contamination from critical process tool areas or cleanrooms in the fab. Our Waferguard gas filters reduce outgassing and remove particle contamination. Our GateKeeper gas purifiers and large facility wide gas purification systems provide continuous purified gas supply to customer fabs by chemically reacting and absorbing contaminants, effectively removing gaseous contaminants down to part-per-trillion levels. Our Chambergard gas diffusers provide semiconductor equipment manufacturers with the capability to rapidly vent their tools to atmosphere to dramatically reduce process cycle times without adding particles to the wafers. These products are used in, or alongside, critical processing tools to improve yield and reduce tool downtime. In addition, we provide filters used to eliminate airborne molecular contamination from critical process tool areas or cleanrooms in the fab, improving process yield. ADVANCED MATERIALS HANDLING SEGMENT The AMH segment develops solutions to monitor, protect, transport, and deliver critical liquid chemistries, wafers and substrates for a broad set of applications in the semiconductor industry and other high-technology industries. These systems and products improve our customers yields by protecting wafers from abrasion, degradation and contamination during 7 Table of Contents manufacturing and transportation and by assuring the consistent, clean and safe delivery of advanced chemicals from the chemical manufacturer to the point-of-use in the semiconductor fab. As advanced semiconductor fabs are built, demand is driven for our wafer handling and fluid handling products. As those fabs move into production, we see demand for wafer carrying and fluid containment solutions offered by this segment. The AMH segment collaborates closely with the semiconductor chemical manufacturers segment in developing products that are compatible with advanced chemistries to enhance yield, and integrates liquid filtration technology from our MC segment to deliver consistent and pure chemistry. Wafer Solutions . We lead the market with our high-volume line of Ultrapak and Crystalpak products for wafers ranging from 100 to 200 mm, which ensure the clean and secure transport of wafers from the wafer manufacturers to the semiconductor fab. We also offer a front-opening shipping box, or FOSB, for the transportation and automated interface of 300 mm wafers. We lead the market for 300mm front opening unified pods, or FOUPs, wafer transport and process carriers, and standard mechanical interface pods, or SMIF pods, for 200mm wafer applications. These microenvironment products safely and accurately deliver wafers within the semiconductor fab environment to the various process fabrication steps. We are a leader in reticle protection products for photolithography. This includes products that protect the high-value EUV (extreme ultraviolet) lithography masks during both the mask manufacturing process and their use in the semiconductor fab. Chemical Containers . We have a broad portfolio of flexible and rigid polymer packaging and container products, from low-volume containers to transport high-value photoresist chemistries, such as our NOWPak products, to large intermediate bulk containers (IBCs) to safely and efficiently transport chemicals in bulk, such as our FluoroPure products. Our connection systems provide for safe and efficient chemical dispense from the container in the fab. Chemical companies utilize our packaging products to ensure the purity of chemistries shipped to semiconductor fabs, resulting in enhance yields. Fluidics . We are a leader in high-purity fluid transfer products such as valves, measurement, fittings, tubing, pipe, custom fabricated products and associated connection systems, such as our PrimeLock connections, for high-purity chemical applications and our proprietary digital flow control technology improves the uniformity of chemicals applied on wafers. Our IntelliGen integrated high-precision liquid dispense systems enable the uniform application of advanced chemistries during the wafer fabrication process, integrating our valve control expertise with filter device technologies from our MC segment, so that filtering and dispensing of photochemicals can occur at different rates, conserving high-value chemistry and reducing defects on wafers. Our comprehensive product lines provide our semiconductor manufacturers, process tool makers and chemical customers with a single-source provider for their high-purity chemical management needs throughout the manufacturing process. OUR CUSTOMERS AND MARKETS Our most significant customers include semiconductor device manufacturers, semiconductor equipment makers, gas and chemical manufacturing companies, leading wafer grower companies and manufacturers of high-precision electronics. We also sell our products to flat panel display equipment makers, materials suppliers and panel manufacturers, and manufacturers of hard disk drive components and devices. Our other high-technology markets include manufacturers and suppliers in the solar and life science industries, electrical discharge machining customers, glass and glass container manufacturers, aerospace manufacturers and manufacturers of biomedical implantation devices. In 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , net sales to our top ten customers accounted for 44% , 47% and 45% , respectively, of combined net sales. In 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited, accounted for $154 million , $168 million and $162 million of net sales, respectively, or approximately 10% , 13% and 14% of our net sales, respectively, including sales from each of our three reporting segments. In addition, in 2018 and 2017 , Samsung Electronics Co. accounted for $164 million and $141 million of net sales, respectively, or approximately 11% and 10% of our net sales, respectively, including sales from all of the Companys segments, respectively. International net sales represented 78% , 79% and 78% , respectively, of net sales in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 . Approximately 3,100 customers purchased products from us during 2018 . For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018 , our revenue breakdown by customer segment was as follows: semiconductor manufacturers 46% ; OEMs 13% ; electronic materials customers 14% ; other semiconductor customers 15% ; and non-semiconductor customers 12% . We may enter into supply agreements with our customers. These agreements generally have a term of one to three years, but do not contain any long-term purchase commitments. Instead, we work closely with our customers to develop non-binding forecasts of the future volume of orders. However, customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities from forecasted volumes or delay production for a number of reasons beyond our control. SALES, MARKETING AND SUPPORT 8 Table of Contents We sell our products worldwide, primarily through our direct sales force and strategic independent distributors located in all major semiconductor markets. Independent distributors are also used in other semiconductor market territories and for specific market segments. As of December 31, 2018 , our sales and marketing force consisted of approximately 560 employees worldwide. Our unique capabilities and long-standing industry relationships have provided us with the opportunity for significant collaboration with our customers at the product design stage, which has facilitated our ability to introduce new materials and new solutions that meet our customers needs. We are constantly identifying for our customers a variety of materials, purification and process control challenges that may be addressed by our product solutions. Our sales representatives provide our customers with worldwide technical support and information about our products and materials. We believe that our technical support services are important to our sales and marketing efforts. These services include assisting in defining a customers needs, evaluating alternative products and materials, designing a specific system to perform the desired operation, training users and assisting customers in compliance with relevant government regulations. Additionally, our field applications engineers, located in all of the major markets we serve, work directly with our customers on product qualification and process improvements in their facilities. We maintain a network of service centers, applications laboratories and technology centers located in all key markets internationally and in the United States to support our products and our customers with their advanced development needs, provide local technical service and ensure fast turnaround time. COMPETITION The market for our products is highly competitive. While price is an important factor, we compete primarily on the basis of the following factors: technical expertise; breadth of product line; product quality and performance; breadth of geographic presence; advanced manufacturing capabilities; customer service and support; and total cost of ownership; after-sales service. historical customer relationships; We believe that we compete favorably with respect to all of the factors listed above. We believe that our key competitive strengths include our broad product line, our strong research and development infrastructure and investment, our manufacturing excellence, our advanced quality control systems, the low total cost of ownership of our products, our ability to provide our customers with quick order fulfillment and our applications expertise in semiconductor manufacturing processes. However, our competitive position varies depending on the market segment and specific product areas within these segments. While we have longstanding relationships with a number of semiconductor and other electronic device manufacturers, we also face significant competition from companies that also have longstanding relationships with other semiconductor and electronic device manufacturers and, as a result, have been able to have their products specified by those customers for use in manufacturers fabrication facilities. The competitive landscape is varied, from multinational companies to small regional or regionally-focused companies. While product quality and technology remain critical, overall, industry trends are indicating a shift to localized, cost-competitive and consolidated supply chains. Because of the unique breadth of our capabilities, we believe that there are no global competitors that compete with us across the full range of our product offerings. Many of our competitors are local companies that participate in only a few products or in specific geographies. While there are other larger, broad-based materials suppliers, many are concentrated in specific product areas, such as filtration, specialty chemicals or materials handling. Notable competitors with respect to certain specific product areas include Pall Corporation (part of Danaher Corporation), Shin-Etsu Polymer Co., Ltd., Gemu Valves, Inc., Tokyo Keiso Co., Ltd., Mersen, Versum Materials, Inc., E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company and The Dow Chemical Company (each a subsidiary of DowDupont Inc.), Air Liquide, Praxair, Inc. (a subsidiary of Linde plc.), Donaldson Company, Inc. and Parker Hannifin Corp. ENGINEERING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We believe that technology is important to the success of our businesses, and we plan to continue to devote significant resources to engineering, research and development (R&D), balancing efforts between shorter-term market needs and longer-term investments. Our aggregate engineering, research and development expenses in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 were $118.5 million , $107.0 million and $107.0 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 500 employees in engineering, research and development. We have supplemented and may continue to supplement our internal research and development efforts by licensing technology from unaffiliated third parties and/or acquiring rights with respect to products 9 Table of Contents incorporating externally owned technologies. Our R&D expenses consist of personnel and other direct and indirect costs for internally funded project development, including the use of outside service providers. We believe we have a rich pipeline of development projects. For example, our engineering, research and development efforts have been focusing on growth opportunities in areas such as bulk photochemical filtration, new boron mixtures for ion implant, new precursors for deposition, specialty coatings for key applications and new cleans chemistries. Our engineering, research and development efforts are directed toward developing and improving our technology platforms for semiconductor and advanced processing applications and identifying and developing products for new applications, often working directly with our customers to address their particular needs. We have engineering, research and development capabilities in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Texas, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Singapore and Malaysia to meet the global needs of our customers. We use sophisticated methodologies to research, develop and characterize our materials and products. Our capabilities to test and characterize our materials and products are focused on continuously reducing risks and threats to the integrity of the critical materials that our customers use in their manufacturing processes. We participate in Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (SEMI), an association of semiconductor equipment suppliers, as well as collaborate with leading universities and industry consortia, such as the University of California and the Interuniversity Microelectronics Centre (imec). We undertake this work to extend the reach of our internal R&D and to gain access to leadership ideas and concepts beyond the time horizon of our internal development activities. PATENTS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS As of December 31, 2018 , we own approximately 2,284 active patents worldwide, of which about 644 are United States patents. Additionally, Entegris owns about 1,098 that are pending patent applications globally. In addition, we license certain patents owned by third parties. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and license agreements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. We refresh our intellectual property on an ongoing basis through continued innovation. While we license and will continue to license technology used in the manufacture and distribution of products from third parties, we do not consider any particular patent or license to be material to our business. We vigorously protect and defend our intellectual property. We require each of our employees, including our executive officers, to enter into standard agreements pursuant to which the employee agrees to keep confidential all of our proprietary information and to assign to us all inventions made while employed by us. We also require all outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers, and other advisors and consultants who are provided confidential information to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of the consulting or collaboration relationship in question. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the entity or individual during the course of the entitys or individuals relationship with the Company is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific limited circumstances. MANUFACTURING Our customers rely on our products and materials to assure the integrity of the critical materials used in their manufacturing processes by providing purity, cleanliness, consistent performance, dimensional precision and stability. Our ability to meet our customers expectations, combined with our substantial investments in worldwide manufacturing capacity, position us to respond to the increasing demands from our customers for yield-enhancing materials and solutions. To meet our customers needs worldwide, we have established an extensive global manufacturing network with facilities in the United States, Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia and South Korea. Because we work in an industry where contamination control is paramount, we maintain Class 100 to Class 10,000 cleanrooms for manufacturing and assembly. We believe that our worldwide advanced manufacturing capabilities are important competitive advantages. These include: engineered polymer conversion and processing; specialty coating capabilities; advanced membrane modification and cleaning; solids and powders compounding and handling; chemical distillation, synthesis and purification; graphite synthesis; gas delivery systems; blow molding; high-purity gas handling and transfilling; rotational molding; high-purity materials packaging; machining; and membrane casting; assembly. cartridge manufacturing and assembly; 10 Table of Contents We have made significant investments in systems and equipment to create innovative products and tool designs, including metrology and 3D printing capabilities for rapid analysis and production prototype of products. In addition, we use contract manufacturers for certain of our gas purification systems and certain electronic materials products both in the U.S. and Asia. RAW MATERIALS Our products are made from a wide variety of raw materials that are generally available from multiple sources of supply. However, while we seek to have several sources of supply for all of these materials, certain materials included in our products, such as certain filtration membranes in our MC segment, petroleum coke and specialty and commodity chemicals in our SCEM segment and polymer resins in our AMH segment, are obtained from a single source or a limited group of suppliers or from suppliers in a single country. We have entered into multi-year supply agreements with a number of suppliers for the purchase of raw materials in the interest of supply assurance and to control costs. GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION Our operations are subject to federal, state and local regulatory requirements relating to environmental, waste management and health and safety matters, including measures relating to the release, use, storage, treatment, transportation, discharge, disposal and remediation of contaminants, hazardous substances and wastes, as well as practices and procedures applicable to the construction and operation of our plants. Although some risk of costs and liabilities related to these matters is inherent in our business, as with many similar businesses, we believe that our business is operated in substantial compliance with applicable regulations. However, new, modified or more stringent requirements or enforcement policies could be adopted, which could adversely affect us. While we expect that capital expenditures will be necessary to assure that any new manufacturing facility is in compliance with environmental and health and safety laws, we do not expect these expenditures to be material. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2018 , we had approximately 4,900 employees. Given the variability of business cycles in the semiconductor industry and the quick response time required by our customers, it is critical that we be able to quickly adjust the size of our production staff to maximize efficiency. Therefore, we use skilled temporary labor as required. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement other than statutorily mandated programs in certain European countries. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT OUR OPERATING SEGMENTS For a discussion of revenue and segment profitability with respect to each of our reporting segments, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis below, which is incorporated herein by reference. See also note 16 to our consolidated financial statements. Approximately 78% , 79% and 78% of our net sales were made to customers outside North America in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Industry and geographic segment information is also discussed in note 16 to the Entegris, Inc. consolidated financial statements included in response to Item 8 below, which is incorporated herein by reference. OUR HISTORY The Company was incorporated in Delaware on March 17, 2005 in connection with a merger between Entegris, Inc., a Minnesota corporation, and Mykrolis Corporation, a Delaware corporation. On April 30, 2014, the Company acquired ATMI, based in Danbury, CT. Entegris has been helping its customers solve their critical materials challenges and enhance their manufacturing yields for over 50 years, tracing its corporate origins back to Fluoroware, Inc., which began operating in 1966. AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our Internet address is www.entegris.com. On this web site, under the Investors-Financial Information-SEC Filings section, we post the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): our annual, quarterly, and current reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K; our proxy statements; any amendments to those reports or statements, and Form SD. All such filings are available on our web site free of charge. The SEC also maintains a web site (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The content on our website, and any other website, as referred to in this Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K unless expressly noted. Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our common stock. Any of the following risks, many of which are beyond our control, could 11 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. While we believe that the following list identifies our most significant risk factors, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known, are not currently believed to be material, or are not identified below because they are common to all businesses. Past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. For more information, see Cautionary Statement in Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry WORLDWIDE ECONOMIC AND INDUSTRY CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS TO DECREASE AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. Worldwide economic and industry conditions may adversely affect our business. Our revenue is primarily dependent upon demand from semiconductor manufacturers, which is largely driven by the current and anticipated business and consumer demand for electronic products that utilize semiconductors. Despite the broadening of semiconductor demand drivers to including applications such as smartphones, cloud computing, the Internet of Things, and artificial intelligence, amongst others, the semiconductor industry has historically been, and may in the future be, highly cyclical with periodic significant downturns, resulting in significantly decreased expenditures by semiconductor manufacturers. We are unable to predict the ultimate duration or severity of any future downturns for the semiconductor industry. We have in the past experienced significant revenue deterioration and operating losses due to a severe downturn in the semiconductor industry. During downturns, our revenue is reduced and there is likely to be an increase in pricing pressure and shifts in product and customer mix, all of which may affect gross margin and net income. Additionally, the semiconductor industry is affected by seasonal shifts in demand. Even moderate cyclicality or seasonality can cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from one period to the next. Uncertain and volatile economic conditions and other factors can exacerbate negative trends in business and consumer spending, causing our customers to push out, cancel, or refrain from purchasing our products and solutions, which may have an adverse impact on our revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in order patterns have an immediate impact on our revenues because we typically do not have significant backlog. Uncertain economic and industry conditions make it more challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify and prioritize business risks. If we do not appropriately respond to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a significant negative impact on its business performance and financial condition. We may be required to implement additional cost reduction efforts, including restructuring activities, which may adversely affect our ability to capitalize on opportunities. Furthermore, since we must continue to maintain a satisfactory level of engineering, research and development expenditures, continue to invest in our infrastructure and maintain the ability to respond to any significant increases in demand, if they occur, lower sales volume in periods of reduced demand can have a large impact on our profitability. OUR DEPENDENCE ON SINGLE AND LIMITED SOURCE SUPPLIERS OR AN INTERRUPTION IN OUR ORDINARY SOURCES OF SUPPLY COULD AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE OUR PRODUCTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. We rely on single or limited source suppliers for raw materials, such as plastic polymers, filtration membranes, petroleum coke and other materials, which are critical to the manufacturing of our products. If we lost one of these sources, it may be difficult for us to find an alternative supplier and we would need to qualify this new source through our customers rigorous qualification processes. Although we seek to reduce dependence on these sole and limited source suppliers, the partial or complete loss of these sources could interrupt our manufacturing operations and result in an adverse effect on our results of operations. At times, we have experienced a limited supply of certain raw materials and have had to substitute raw materials, which have resulted in delays, increased costs and risks associated with qualifying products made from such new raw materials with our customers. Events such as an industry-wide increase in demand for, or the discontinuation of, raw materials used in our products could affect our ability to acquire sufficient quantities and our manufacturing operations may be interrupted. For example, global demand for fluoropolymers increased unexpectedly in 2017 due to greater requirements from certain markets. While we were able to maintain our supply of this raw material and prevent delays in customer shipments by holding forecast reviews with our key suppliers and securing higher levels of fluoropolymers inventory, future raw materials shortages may adversely affect our operations. Additionally, our suppliers may not have the capacity to meet increases in our demand for raw materials, in turn, making it difficult for us to meet demand from our customers. Furthermore, prices for our raw materials can vary widely. While we have long-term arrangements with certain key suppliers that fix our price for the purchase of certain raw materials, if the cost of our raw materials increases and we are unable to correspondingly increase the sales price of our products or find other cost savings, our profit margins will decline. WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE RISKS OF OPERATING A GLOBAL BUSINESS AS A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES AND MANUFACTURING ACTIVITY OCCUR OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES. 12 Table of Contents Sales to customers outside the United States accounted for approximately 78% , 79% and 78% of our net sales in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. We anticipate that international sales will continue to account for a majority of our net sales. In addition, a number of our key domestic customers derive a significant portion of their revenues from sales in international markets. We also manufacture a significant portion of our products outside the United States and are dependent on international suppliers for many of our parts and raw materials. We intend to continue to pursue opportunities in both sales and manufacturing internationally. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks and potential costs that could adversely affect our revenue and profitability, including: unanticipated government actions, laws, rules, regulations and policies, such as trade wars or changes in international trade requirements and sanctions and/or tariffs that affect our business and that of our customers and suppliers, that could impose additional costs on our operations, or that could limit our ability to operate our business; challenges in hiring and integrating workers in different countries; management of a diverse workforce with different experience levels, languages, cultures, customs, business practices and worker expectations, along with differing employment practices and labor issues; maintenance of appropriate business processes, procedures and internal controls, and compliance with legal, environmental, health and safety, anti-corruption and other regulatory requirements; development of relationships with local customers, suppliers and governments; fluctuating pricing and availability of raw materials and supply chain interruptions; expense and complexity of complying with U.S. and foreign import and export regulations, including the ability to obtain required import and export licenses; fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates, including the relative strength or weakness of the U.S. dollar against foreign currency including Japanese yen, euro, Taiwanese dollar, Korean won, Chinese yuan or Singapore dollar, which could cause our sales and profitability to decline; liability for foreign taxes assessed at rates higher than those applicable to our domestic operations; customer or government efforts to encourage operations and sourcing in a particular country, such as Korea and China or that favor domestic companies over nondomestic companies, including efforts to provide for the development and growth of local competitors; and political and economic instability and uncertainty. In the past, we have incurred costs or experienced disruptions due to the factors described above and we expect to do so in the future. For example, effective October 30, 2018, the U.S. Department of Commerce restricted exports to a Chinese semiconductor manufacturing company and may in the future impose further restrictions on this or other semiconductor manufacturers or industry participants. While this particular event is not expected to have an adverse effect on our revenue, other restrictions could impact our ability to serve customers in China and in other countries. In addition, the import of gas canisters and chemicals viewed as dangerous have come under increased regulatory scrutiny by governmental officials in China. As a result, we have established partnerships with local suppliers. However, this increased regulation may impair the ability of our SCEM segment to import those products into China and may cause us to lose sales. Also, in the past, our operations in Asia, and particularly South Korea, Taiwan and Japan, have been negatively impacted as a result of regional economic instability. There have historically been strained relations between China and Taiwan and there are continuing tensions between North Korea and other countries, including South Korea and the United States. Any adverse developments in those relations could significantly disrupt the worldwide production of semiconductors, which may lead to reduced sales of our products. A SIGNIFICANT AMOUNT OF OUR SALES IS CONCENTRATED ON A LIMITED NUMBER OF KEY CUSTOMERS AND, THEREFORE, OUR NET SALES AND PROFITABILITY MAY MATERIALLY DECLINE IF WE LOST ONE OR MORE OF THESE CUSTOMERS. Sales to a limited number of large customers constitute a significant portion of our overall revenue, shipments, cash flows, collections, and profitability. Our top ten customers accounted for 44% , 47% and 45% of our net sales in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our customers could stop using our products in their manufacturing processes with limited advance notice to us and suffer little or no penalty for doing so. The cancellation, reduction or deferral of purchases of our products by even a single customer could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular quarter. If we were to lose any of our significant customers, if our products are not specified for these customers products or production processes, or if we suffer a material reduction in their purchase orders, our revenue could decline and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Due to the long design and development cycle and lengthy customer product qualification periods required for most of our new products, we may be unable to quickly replace these customers, if at all. 13 Table of Contents Furthermore, the semiconductor industry has been undergoing, and is expected to continue to undergo, consolidation. If any of our customers merge or are acquired, we may experience lower overall sales from the merged or surviving companies. In addition, our principal customers also hold considerable purchasing power and may be able to negotiate requirements that result in decreased pricing, increased costs, and/or lower margins for us, and limitations on our ability to share jointly developed technology with others. We could also lose our key customers or significant sales to our key customers because of factors beyond our control, such as a significant disruption in our customers businesses generally or in a specific product line, a change in the manufacturing sourcing policies or practices of these customers or the timing of customer inventory adjustments. For example, our customers aggressive management of inventory has adversely affected revenue in our SCEM segment in the past and may adversely affect future results of operations. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RESPOND TO RAPID TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE BY CONTINUING TO INNOVATE AND INTRODUCE NEW AND ENHANCED PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS, OUR BUSINESS COULD BE SERIOUSLY HARMED. The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change, changing customer requirements and frequent new product introductions. As a result, the life cycle of our products is difficult to determine. We believe that our future success will depend upon our ability to continue to develop mission-critical solutions to maximize our customers manufacturing yields and enable higher performance of end-market materials or devices. This requires that we successfully anticipate and respond to technological changes in manufacturing processes in a cost-effective and timely manner. A failure to develop new products or enhancements to our existing products or the inability to timely manufacture and ship these products or enhancements in sufficient volume could harm our business prospects and significantly reduce our sales. In addition, if new products have reliability or quality problems, we may experience reduced orders, higher manufacturing costs, delays in acceptance and payment, additional service and warranty expense, and damage to our reputation. COMPETITION FROM NEW OR EXISTING COMPANIES COULD HARM OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOW. We operate in a highly competitive industry. Our competitors include many domestic and foreign companies, some of which have substantially greater manufacturing, financial, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. In addition, some of our competitors may have better-established customer relationships than we do, which may enable them to have their products specified for use more frequently and more quickly by these customers. We also face competition from smaller, regional companies, which focus on serving those customers in their same region. Another source of competition is from the manufacturing engineering teams of our customers, who continually evaluate the benefits of internal manufacturing versus outsourcing. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, fewer customer orders, reduced margins, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and a loss of market share, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, we expect that existing and new competitors will improve the design of their existing products and will introduce new products with enhanced performance characteristics. The introduction of new products or more efficient production of existing products by our competitors could diminish our market share and increase pricing pressure on our products. IF OUR NEW PRODUCT INITIATIVES AND RELATED INVESTMENTS DO NOT RESULT IN FUTURE BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES, OUR REVENUE AND PROFITABILITY MAY DECLINE. In the semiconductor market, while the development period for a product can be very long, the first company to introduce an innovative product meeting an identified customer need will often have a significant advantage over offerings of competitive products. For this reason, we may make significant cash expenditures to research, develop, engineer and market new products and make significant capital investments in technology and manufacturing capacity in advance of future business developing and without any purchase commitment from our customers. For example, to support new product and technology development, we incurred $118.5 million , $107.0 million and $107.0 million for engineering, research and development expense in 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Following development, it may take a number of years for sales of a new product to reach a substantial level, if ever. A product concept may never progress beyond the development stage or may only achieve limited acceptance in the marketplace. If this occurs, we do not receive a direct return on our expenditures, we may not realize any indirect benefits, we may lose market share and our revenue and profitability may decline. For example, from 2011 to 2014, our capital expenditures relating to developing the capability to manufacture shippers and FOUPs for 450 mm wafers were approximately $16.5 million. However, major semiconductor manufacturers have announced that they would not initiate 450 mm manufacturing in the foreseeable future. As a result, we incurred significant impairment charges in fiscal year 2017. We cannot assure you that the new products and technology we choose to develop and market in the ordinary course of our business will be successful. 14 Table of Contents TARIFFS, TRADE RESTRICTIONS AND PROTECTIONIST MEASURES RESULTING FROM INTERNATIONAL TRADE DISPUTES COULD HAVE AN ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR OPERATIONS. We have significant sales to customers outside of the United States and we purchase a significant amount of raw materials from suppliers outside of the United States. The United States and other countries have levied tariffs and taxes on certain goods. While there is uncertainty as to the duration of these tariffs and scope of future tariffs, tariffs may increase the costs of certain raw materials that we import into the United States and may negatively impact our margins as we may not be able to increase the prices of our products. Retaliatory tariffs on goods manufactured in the United Stated could make the products we sell from the United States more expensive to customers outside the United States, reducing the competitiveness of our products, harming sales and inhibiting our ability to do business in these foreign countries. As a result of these ongoing trade disputes, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be negatively impacted. WE MAY ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES, FORM JOINT VENTURES OR DIVEST BUSINESSES, WHICH COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. As part of our business strategy, and as we have done in the past, we expect to address gaps in our product offerings, adjust our portfolio of businesses to meet our ongoing strategic objectives, diversify into complementary markets and increase our scale through acquisitions, joint ventures or other types of collaborations, including the Proposed Merger. As a result, we may enter markets in which we have no or limited prior experience and may encounter difficulties in divesting businesses that no longer meet our objectives. Competition for acquiring attractive businesses in our industry is substantial. We may experience difficulty in identifying suitable acquisition candidates or in completing selected transactions at appropriate valuations, in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis or at all, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such transaction. In addition, new legislation or regulations may increase the difficulty or impair our ability to invest or consummate transactions in certain countries or require us to obtain regulatory approvals to do so. Specifically, the Proposed Merger is subject to a number of closing conditions, many of which are outside of our control, including the receipt of approvals from our and Versums shareholders, the receipt of approvals under U.S. and certain foreign antitrust and competition laws, and other conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, and there can be no assurance that the Proposed Merger will be completed. Alternatively, we may be required to undertake multiple transactions at the same time in order to take advantage of acquisition opportunities that do arise. This could strain our ability to effectively execute and integrate these transactions. In addition, the integration of certain operations following a transaction, including the Proposed Merger, requires the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract managements attention from our day-to-day business. Employee uncertainty and lack of focus during integration process may also disrupt our business. Further, we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquisitions that we do make into our existing business operations, including the Proposed Merger. For example, if we fail to successfully integrate and operate the gas purification business we acquired from SAES Getters S.p.A. in June 2018, we may not meet our revenue and bottom line objectives for the MC division or for the Company, and if we fail to successfully integrate the operations of Versum, we may not be able to achieve the anticipated operating and cost synergies or long-term strategic benefits of the Proposed Merger. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits of the Proposed Merger, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock after the completion of the Proposed Merger. Additionally, we could assume unknown or contingent liabilities or experience negative effects on our reported results of operations from dilutive results from operations and/or from future potential impairment of acquired assets, including goodwill, related to future acquisitions. For example, despite our due diligence review, an acquired company may have inadequate or ineffective an internal financial controls, disclosure