Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Those future events and trends may relate to, among other things, the anticipated impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the effect that it may have on our revenues, operations, access to capital, profitability and customer demand, and civil unrest in the geographies where we operate. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks, uncertainties and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may materially and adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Company Background EPAM delivers end-to-end value to its customers by combining its core engineering and technology capabilities with business and experience consulting. We support our customers in a market that is constantly challenged by the pressures of digitization through our innovative and scalable software solutions, high quality business consulting and experience design, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities. We focus on building long-term partnerships with our customers, enabling them to reimagine their businesses through a digital lens. Our historical core competency, software development and product engineering services, combined with our work with global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies, created our foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have expanded our geographic reach and service capabilities to include digital strategy and design, consulting and test automation and we expect our strategic acquisitions will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our customers from a wide variety of locations. Business Strategy Our service offerings continuously evolve to provide more customized and integrated solutions to our customers where we combine best-in-class software engineering with customer experience design, business consulting and technology innovation services. We are continually expanding our service capabilities, moving beyond traditional services into business consulting, design and physical product development and areas such as artificial intelligence, robotics and virtual reality. EPAMs key service offerings and solutions include the following practice areas: Engineering Our engineering foundation underpins how we architect, build and scale next-generation software solutions and agile delivery teams. Our engineering expertise allows us to build enterprise technologies that improve business processes, offer smarter analytics and result in greater operational excellence through requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our customers chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality in order to address the needs of the customers users and customers. We address our customers increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures through our infrastructure management services. These solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as monitoring, incident notification and resolution. We deliver maintenance and support services through our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. We have deep expertise and the ability to offer a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Operations We turn our customers operations into intelligent enterprise hubs with our proprietary platforms, integrated engineering practices and smart automation. Developing a digital experience or product from end-to-end requires input and expertise from a variety of professionals with a broad range of skills. Our multidisciplinary teams and global delivery framework come together to deliver well-rounded technology solutions that bring a competitive advantage to our customers. In addition to utilizing our dedicated delivery centers, which allow us to deploy key delivery talent, we work closely with leading companies in various industries to enable our customers to better leverage technology and address the simultaneous pressures of driving value for their consumer and offering a more engaging experience. 2 Table of Contents Optimization We turn process optimization into real transformation by using process automation and cognitive techniques to transform legacy processes and deliver streamlined operations that increase revenues and reduce costs for our customers. We rely on our teams, methodologies and tools to optimize every stage of software delivery for improved quality and better features with each release. We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals, who perform software application testing, test management, automation and consulting services focused on helping customers improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. We employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools and frameworks to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services that identify threats and close loopholes to protect our customers business systems from information loss. Consulting Over the years, as a complement to our core engineering skills, we have added capabilities in business consulting to give us an agile, hybrid approach to the market. Our consulting services drive deeper relationships as we help our customers with larger and more complex challenges. Our integrated consulting teams across Business, Experience, Technology and Data apply a systems thinking mindset to get to the core of our clients challenges. The functional business expertise of our professionals is supplemented by a thorough understanding of technology platforms and their interactions as well as application of data science and machine learning to deliver our best insights into our customers business. Our technical advisory services help customers stay ahead of current technology changes and innovate, where innovation beyond technology is also delivered through collaborative workshops, challenges and new organizational models. Design We apply design thinking to digital and service strategy, user experience and the product lifecycle with a focus on innovative design ideas and product development. Our digital and service design practice provides strategy, design, creative and program management services for customers looking to improve the user experience. We are continuously looking to strengthen and grow our design and consulting practices as evidenced by our 2018 strategic acquisitions of Continuum Innovation LLC, which enhances our consulting, physical design and product development capabilities, and Think Limited, which enhances our global product and design offerings. Industry Expertise Strong industry-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our customers, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. Our customers operate in five main industry verticals as well as a number of other verticals in which we are increasing our presence. Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global investment banks, commercial and retail lending institutions, credit card and payment solution companies, trading platforms, wealth management institutions, fund operators, insurance companies and various other providers of financial services. We assist these customers with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, customer-based needs and risk management. Our financial services domain experts have been recognized with industry awards for engineering and deploying unique applications and business solutions that facilitate growth, competitiveness, and customer loyalty while driving cost efficiency for global financial institutions. Travel and Consumer. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. Some of the worlds leading airlines, hotel providers and travel agencies rely on our knowledge in creating high-quality tools for operating and managing their business. Within this vertical, we also serve global, regional and local retailers, online retail brands, consumer goods manufacturers, distributors, and online marketplaces. We deliver a wide range of services to retail and e-commerce customers from complex system modernizations to leading edge innovations in multi-channel sales and distribution. We have transformed organizations to use technology to expand and revolutionize their business models. Our services directly impact the consumer experience of our customers brands, and allow our customers to reach more consumers. 3 Table of Contents Software and Hi-Tech. We provide complex software product development services to meet software and technology companies constant need for innovation and agility. We help some of the most prominent software brands in the world build, what we believe to be, the best software. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech research and development, software engineering and integration, we have developed proprietary internal processes, methodologies and information technology infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving customers in the Hi-Tech and Software product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Business Information and Media. We help our business information and media customers build products and solutions for all modern platforms including web media streaming and mobile information delivery. Our solutions help customers develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve varied customers in this vertical including search engine providers, entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors, knowledge management organizations and advertising networks. Life Sciences and Healthcare. In the Life Sciences category, we partner with global pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. Our personnel in Life Sciences leverage their vast technology expertise to offer deep scientific and mathematical knowledge to broad-based initiatives. Our Life Sciences solutions enable customers to speed research and accelerate time-to-market while improving collaboration, knowledge management and operational excellence. We help our customers in the Healthcare industry respond to changing regulatory environments and improve the quality of care while managing the cost of care. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, development and managed services to customers ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. Emerging Verticals. We also serve the diverse technology needs of customers in the energy, telecommunications, automotive and manufacturing industries, as well as government customers. These customers are included in our Emerging Verticals, which are further discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers We maintain a geographically diverse client base in multiple industries. Our focus on delivering quality service is reflected in established relationships with many of our customers, with 58.5% and 26.1% of our revenues in 2020 coming from customers that had used our services for at least five and ten years, respectively. Our sustained growth and increased capabilities are furthered by both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. We remain committed to diversifying our client base and adding more customers to our client mix; however, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted the economic landscape during 2020 and influenced business decisions of our existing and potential customers. We were able to capitalize on demand for our services at our larger customers whereas we realized less revenue growth from our smaller customers. However, over the long-term, we expect revenue concentration from our top customers to decrease. The following table shows revenues from the top five and ten customers in the respective year as a percentage of revenues for that year: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Top five customers 22.0 % 19.9 % 22.3 % Top ten customers 30.9 % 29.1 % 31.6 % See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to revenues. See Note 16 Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding long-lived assets and customer revenues by geographic location as well as financial information related to our reportable segments. 4 Table of Contents Global Delivery Model We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our customers diverse needs and to provide a compelling value proposition. We continuously grow our delivery platform both organically and through strategically acquired locations and personnel with diversified skills that support our strategy. We had 36,737 delivery personnel as of December 31, 2020, which mainly includes our core information technology professionals as well as designers, consultants and scientists. We serve our customers through on-site, off-site and offshore locations across the world and use strategically located delivery centers to offer a strong, diversified and cost-effective delivery platform. Our largest delivery centers are located in Belarus, Ukraine and Russia and our delivery model has not been materially affected by the political and economic uncertainty in these locations. As of December 31, 2020, we had 9,638 delivery professionals located in Belarus. The majority of these delivery professionals are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is well-positioned to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base and established educational infrastructure. Furthermore, the government in Belarus encourages investment in this sector through various long-term tax incentives. Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government support of the technology industry. As of December 31, 2020, we had 9,115 delivery professionals in Ukraine and 6,348 delivery professionals in Russia. Our other significant locations with delivery professionals are the United States with 2,292, India with 2,052, Poland with 1,721, Hungary with 1,534, Mexico with 607, and China with 534 as of December 31, 2020. Human Capital Our more than 41,000 employees are a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and serve our customers. Therefore, our ability to identify, attract, hire and retain people who are highly skilled in information technology as delivery professionals, as well as individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, human resources and other key management positions, is critical to our success. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our customers and investors. To attract, retain and motivate our employees, we offer a challenging work environment, a culture that values the individual, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement with continuous rotation and promotion opportunities while providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we had a total of 41,168, 36,739, and 30,156 employees, respectively. Of these employees, as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, 36,737, 32,561, and 26,760 of those employees were delivery professionals. Health, Safety, and Wellness: We invest in programs designed to improve the physical, mental, and social well-being of our employees so we can offer a safe, welcoming, and productive workplace. Our health and safety programs are designed to comply with the regulations and address the conditions in the multiple jurisdictions where we have people and facilities, and further designed to be compatible with the working necessities of our delivery and administrative operations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented significant changes that were consistent with public health guidance and were in the best interest of our employees, our customers, and the communities where we work and live. Our primary changes were to ask the vast majority of our employees to work from home, to implement additional safety measures at our offices and delivery centers, and to develop new technologies for employees who were required to report to work in our or our customers facilities. Recognizing that the abrupt changes associated with the COVID-19 pandemic and remote working had the potential to significantly disrupt the work-life balance and wellness of our employees, we increased awareness of existing programs that focus on enhancing our employees mental well-being. We also developed new programs, such as a parenting resource group where peers could share tips, resources, and ideas to support each other while schools and child and elder care facilities were closed, and broadcast live town hall-style forums where our senior leadership could listen to and quickly address employees questions and concerns. 5 Table of Contents Recruitment, Training and Utilization: As an innovation-driven business in a competitive industry, our success depends on hiring the most talented employees in the industry and effectively training and deploying them using utilization practices and technologies to satisfy the demands of our customers. We actively monitor our utilization rates to balance the needs of our customers, the availability, location, and skill sets of our employees, and the need for our employees to engage in diverse and challenging work. We have dedicated full-time employees who oversee all aspects of our human capital management process including talent acquisition teams whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced professionals around the world. We manage utilization through strategic hiring and efficiently staffing projects for our customers. At December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the full year utilization rates of our delivery professionals were approximately 79.8%, 78.0%, and 78.1 %, respectively. We are continuously exploring new geographies and markets as sources of talent. EPAM invests significant resources in training and developing our employees through our learning and development programs. Our largest learning and development investment has been directed towards developing our engineering talent, including targeted training programs, innovation labs, and significant internal production projects. Our employees consumed over 1.6 million learning hours in 2020. We deliver learning opportunities and content through our unique learning ecosystem that promotes learning in the daily workflow to improve retention and productivity, and through dedicated events, including our week-long global learning event, which featured approximately 200 online sessions. We have also built relationships with laboratories and technical universities so our employees can be exposed to the current thinking in academia. We regularly host or participate in hackathons so our employees can build technical skills and foster communities around specific technologies and areas of interest. We deliver learning and development content through proprietary platforms that make learning and development content easily available to all of our employees. Our digital learning platform provides our employees with an interface to meet our employees learning and training needs and includes a recommendation engine that suggests courses and materials based on employee role, level, location and skills. Our electronic library platform makes books and publications available to all of our employees and we celebrate learning achievements through our recognition portal, where we promote our employees learning accomplishments and employees can recognize each other for their teamwork, initiative, and unique, valuable skills. Diversity and Inclusion: EPAM provides our customers with the skills of our talented personnel, which includes people with varied and diverse backgrounds and characteristics, to drive innovation and thought diversity in delivering our services. We believe that innovation comes from the unique perspectives, knowledge, and experiences of our global employees, so we strive to create an inclusive culture by offering comprehensive language learning programs and providing structured education in communication skills and cultural sensitivity and awareness. Increasing diversity in executive and key operational leadership roles is an organizational priority that starts at the top of our organization. For example, women currently represent approximately 29% of the independent directors on our Board. We have developed programs, both within EPAM and externally, so we can continuously retain and supply a pipeline of qualified, diverse candidates to foster our goals. Our programs include dedicating resources and personnel in our talent acquisition team to identify, recognize, and use diverse and inclusive sources for hiring, including associating with organizations that are focused on promoting underrepresented groups in engineering, IT, and business. We also developed the Emerging Engineers Lab, an internship program for entry-level talent sourced from a variety of diverse technology programs across the U.S. Participants who successfully complete the paid training program are ready to engage on billable customer engagements with the rest of our delivery professionals. We also supplemented our mandatory annual training with materials geared towards eliminating unconscious bias in our professional interactions. Our employees have driven the creation of discussion forums focused on diversity and inclusion topics important to them and organized participation in global and local events, including International Womens Day and Pride celebrations. Recognizing that improving the number of underrepresented people in the software and technology industries starts with access to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, EPAM has associated with technical universities in our largest employee population geographies to bolster post-secondary STEM education. We also created the EPAM E-KIDS program where our employees volunteer their time to teach elementary school age children of any gender, race, or ethnic identity STEM concepts and introductory software coding skills. As of the end of 2020, we offered the EPAM E-KIDS program in 13 countries. Employee Engagement and Retention: We are committed to respecting our employees' fundamental human rights at work and accordingly are a participant in the United Nations Global Compact. We believe that retaining skilled talent requires substantially more than meeting basic employment and labor rights, and that employees who are fairly compensated, feel supported in their career development, and are engaged with their employer are more likely to remain with that employer. That is why we strive to provide pay and benefits that demonstrate the value of our employees to us, including a competitive salary, flexible work-life balance, paid time off, health coverage, ongoing training programs, relocation options, and recognition opportunities for open source software contributions. 6 Table of Contents We believe that the career development programs we offer both attract new talent and help retain existing employees. Our career development programs create detailed and progressive training plans for our employees and help them choose from internal and external training options, mentoring programs, and hands-on opportunities to experience emerging technology areas. These programs are housed in proprietary platforms that provide our employees with a framework for the skill development they will need to build their career path, identify skill gaps, and set professional development goals. We designed our career development programs to enable our employees to develop the best engineering practices and influence engineering culture, develop thought leadership in technical and strategic skills, and introduce them to leaders in the field at our industry conferences. Our career development programs also give our employees opportunities to earn accreditation and relevant expertise in various technology fields, including software and project management certifications and recognition and credentialing from the industrys primary software and cloud services providers. EPAM focuses on retaining and engaging top talent by focusing on hiring people with the skill sets our customers need and who also fit our values so we can build long-term employee satisfaction. We endeavor to recruit for careers, not for short-term projects, and actively foster feedback from our employees so we can improve the EPAM employee experience, identify opportunities to strengthen our culture and improve retention, and help our people develop their careers. We believe our ability to effectively hire, engage, and retain high-skilled personnel is a principal competitive factor in our business, which is evidenced by our 2020 voluntary attrition rate of 10.8%, which decreased compared to our 2019 and 2018 voluntary attrition rate of 13.3 % and 14.8 %, respectively. Moreover, our employees have demonstrated their satisfaction with our approach by giving their highest ratings in our 2020 annual employee survey to the following areas: trust in management (93.4/100), good working environment (93.0/100), cooperation between teams (89.8/100), and employee contribution to EPAMs success (89.6/100). Receiving and responding to employee feedback plays a critical role in engaging and retaining our employees because it offers us an opportunity to improve our operations and for our employees to continually enhance their skills. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services through our senior management, sales and business development teams, account managers, and professional staff. Our client service professionals and account managers, who maintain direct customer relationships, play an integral role in engaging with current customers to identify and pursue potential business opportunities. This strategy has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing customer base and we believe that our reputation as a reliable provider of software engineering solutions drives additional business from inbound requests and referrals. In addition to effective client management, our sales model also utilizes an integrated sales and marketing approach that leverages a dedicated sales team to identify and acquire new accounts. We maintain a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events as well as sponsorship of programming competitions. We have been recognized by many top global independent research agencies, such as Forrester, Gartner, Zinnov and HFS and by publications such as Forbes and Fortune. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global technology solutions providers as well as those based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as Eastern Europe, India and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, a reputation for and a track record of high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to customers business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition from various technology services providers such as Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, Exlservice, Genpact, GlobalLogic, Globant, HCL Technologies, HP Enterprise, IBM Services, Infosys, Mindtree, Perficient, Tata Consultancy Services, Virtusa Corporation, and Wipro, among others. Additionally, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. We believe that our focus on complex and innovative software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and our development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. 7 Table of Contents Quality Management and Information Security We are continuously investing in applications, tools and infrastructure to manage all aspects of our global delivery process in order to manage quality and security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our customers. We maintain processes and infrastructure to protect our customers and their customers confidential and sensitive information and allocate resources to ensure information security, cybersecurity and data privacy. We have made significant investments in the appropriate people, processes and technology to establish and manage compliance with confidentiality policies, laws and regulations governing our activities, such as the European Union data protection legal framework referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and others. We focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls and meet the standards of ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2015. We are an ISAE 3402 Type 2 certified IT services provider. This certification is issued by an auditor in compliance with the globally recognized assurance standard. The certification, along with others we hold, provide our customers with independent third-party verification of our information security, quality management and general controls practices. We have developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our proprietary project management tools, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical for visibility into project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents. These tools promote collaboration and effective oversight, reduce work time and costs, and increase quality for our IT management and our customers. Corporate and Social Responsibility We are committed to integrating positive social, environmental and ethical practices into our business operations and strategy. This commitment is key to our continual development as a business and drives value for our employees, customers, business partners, the community and other stakeholders. We practice the principles established in our Code of Ethical Conduct by making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate and championing corporate social responsibility efforts. Through our focused efforts in the areas of Education, Environment, and Community, we are committed to sharing the expertise and attributes of our highly skilled global workforce to effectively support the needs of, and positively add to the world at large and the communities where we work and live. By understanding our impact on local, regional and global communities, we strive to create positive change and opportunities in areas where it is needed most. Such efforts include our global technology education initiatives, through which we provide innovative, industry-relevant technology training and mentorship programs to students globally as well as through other technology conferences, seminars, and hackathon events where we encourage social innovation and jumpstart collaboration among our local tech communities. We maintain strong relationships with the leading technical institutions in Eastern Europe and we support these universities through EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses and curriculum, providing teaching equipment and engaging students to identify their talents in information technology. We believe responsible stewardship of the environment is critical, and we take this responsibility seriously. We continually strive to improve our environmental performance through implementation of sustainable development and environmental practices including recycling and upcycling electronics and computers and designing and releasing a carbon footprint calculator to our employees and the general public. In addition, as an innovation-driven business, EPAMs success depends on hiring the most talented employees in the industry. We are committed to respecting our employees' fundamental human rights at work. We similarly expect our suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors and all other third-party companies that comprise EPAMs supply chain to respect human rights and to avoid complicity in human rights abuses and have adopted a code of conduct for our suppliers and vendors accordingly. Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is important to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our customers. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all deliverable intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment or provision of services. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us remains confidential. 8 Table of Contents We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our customers. These customary agreements cover our use of our customers software systems and platforms as our customers usually own the intellectual property in the products we develop for them. Furthermore, we often grant a nonexclusive license to our customers to use our pre-existing intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary to use the software or systems we develop for them. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation and Legislation. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-corruption laws and data privacy regulations. Compliance with these laws requires significant resources and non-compliance may result in civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at https://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, https://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SECs website at https://www.sec.gov which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically through the SECs EDGAR System. 9 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Listed below, not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence, are the most significant risk factors applicable to us. Additionally, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to COVID-19 Our results of operations have been adversely affected and could in the future be materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility in the price of our common stock, uncertainty in customer demand for our services, and widespread economic disruption. The extent to which the coronavirus pandemic will further impact our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous factors that are frequently changing or unknown, and that we may not be able to accurately predict, including: the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business and individuals responses or planned responses to the pandemic, including availability and administration rates of vaccines; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and any interventions or government relief or stimulus intended to mitigate decreased economic activity; the effect on our customers and customer demand for our products, services, and solutions; our ability to sell and provide our products, services, and solutions, including as a result of travel restrictions, personnel working from home or with diminished technology and communication abilities, and social distancing; the ability of our customers to pay timely, if at all, for our services and solutions with or without discounts requested by our customers; bankruptcy or other insolvency procedures among our customers; and closures of our and our customers offices and facilities. The closure of our customers facilities, restrictions that prevent our customers from accessing those facilities or their own customers, and broad disruptions in our customers markets and customer base, has disrupted, and could continue to disrupt the demand for our products, services, and solutions and result in, among other things, termination of customer contracts, delays or interruptions in the performance of contracts, losses of revenues, and an increase in bad debt expense. Customers may also slow or halt decision making, delay planned work, or suspend, terminate, fail to renew, or reduce existing contracts or services. Travel and immigration restrictions may delay or prevent our personnel from accessing worksites, and work-from-home or remote working arrangements could reduce profitability or increase information security, cyber security and connectivity vulnerabilities. In addition, when COVID-19-related restrictions on businesses and consumers are eased, our ability to deliver services to our customers could be affected by any outbreak of illness among employees returning to our facilities or to our customers facilities. Moreover, there may be additional costs that we will have to incur in connection with further changes to, or a return to, normal operating conditions. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, including, but not limited to, those relating to our operations in emerging markets, our ability to execute on our growth strategy through strategic acquisitions, our dependency on third parties for network infrastructure, attracting, hiring, and retaining personnel, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates, and the effects that changes to fiscal, political, regulatory and other federal policies may have on EPAM, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Personnel and Growth We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management, systems, resources, and results of operations. We have grown rapidly and significantly expanded our business over the past several years, both organically and through strategic acquisitions. Our growth has resulted in part from managing larger and more complex projects for our customers, but consequently requires that we invest substantial amounts of cash in human capital and the infrastructure to support them, including training, administration, and facilities. Our rapid growth places significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, and creates challenges, including: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled professionals and management personnel; planning resource utilization rates on a consistent basis and efficiently using on-site, off-site and offshore staffing; maintaining close and effective relationships with a larger number of customers in a greater number of industries and locations; controlling costs and minimizing cost overruns and project delays in delivery center and infrastructure expansion; effectively maintaining productivity levels and implementing process improvements across geographies and business units; and improving our internal administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We intend to continue our expansion and pursue available opportunities for the foreseeable future. As we introduce new services, enter into new markets, and take on increasingly large and complex projects, our business may face new risks and challenges. If customers do not choose us for large and complex projects or we do not effectively manage those projects, our reputation, business, and financial goals may be damaged. We need to generate business and revenues to support new investments and infrastructure projects. If the challenges associated with expansion negatively impact our anticipated growth and margins, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must successfully attract, hire, train and retain qualified personnel to service our customers projects and we must productively utilize those personnel to remain profitable. Identifying, recruiting, hiring and retaining professionals with diverse skill sets across our broad geography of operations is critical to maintaining existing engagements and obtaining new business. If we are unable to recruit skilled professionals and if we do not deploy those professionals and use computers and other fixed-cost resources productively, our profitability will be significantly impacted. We must manage the utilization levels of the professionals that we hire and train by planning for future needs effectively and staffing projects appropriately while accurately predicting the general economy and our customers need for our services. If we are unable to attract, hire, train, and retain highly skilled personnel and productively deploy them on customer projects, we will jeopardize our ability to meet our customers expectations and develop ongoing and future business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competition for highly skilled professionals is intense in the markets where we operate, and we may experience significant employee turnover rates due to such competition. If we are unable to retain professionals with specialized skills, our revenues, operating efficiency and profitability will decrease. Cost reductions, such as reducing headcount, or voluntary departures that result from our failure to retain the professionals we hire, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire personnel to meet our business requirements. Price increases resulting from increasing compensation to retain personnel could lead to a decline in demand for our services. There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of some of our personnel or the exempt status of our employees is successfully challenged. In several countries, certain of our personnel are retained as independent contractors. The criteria to determine whether an individual is considered an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact sensitive and vary by jurisdiction, as can the interpretation of the applicable laws. If a government authority changes the applicable laws or a court makes any adverse determination with respect to independent contractors in general or one or more of our independent contractors specifically, we could incur significant costs, including for prior periods, for tax withholding, social security taxes or payments, workers compensation and unemployment contributions, and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and increase the difficulty in attracting and retaining personnel. 11 Table of Contents Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and other key personnel to those competitors. If we are unable to attract new senior executives or key personnel due to the intense competition for talent in our industry, it could disrupt our business operations and growth. If we fail to integrate or manage acquired companies efficiently, or if acquisitions do not perform to our expectations, our overall profitability and growth plans could be materially adversely affected. Strategic acquisitions are part of our expansion strategy, but these transactions involve significant risks. Acquired companies may not advance our business strategy or achieve a satisfactory return on our investment, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired employees and business culture, customer relationships, or operations, and acquisitions divert significant management attention and financial resources from our ongoing business. Furthermore, contracts between our acquisition targets and their customers may lack terms and conditions that adequately protect us against the risks associated with the services we provide, which may increase our potential exposure to damages. If not effectively managed, the disruption of our ongoing business, increases in our expenses, including significant one-time expenses and write-offs, and difficulty and complexity of effectively integrating acquired operations may adversely affect our overall growth and profitability. Risks Related to Our Operations Instability in geographies where we have significant operations and personnel or where we derive substantial amounts of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, customers, service delivery, and financial results. Several countries in which we operate are experiencing or may continue to experience civil and political unrest. More than half of our revenues come from customers located in North America, particularly the United States, and we have significant operations in the emerging market economies of Eastern Europe. We had almost 220 employees in Armenia as of December 31, 2020 and more than half of our global delivery, administrative, and support personnel are located in Ukraine, Russia, and Belarus. In the United States, political and civil discord, the election of a new presidential administration, and popular and regulatory scrutiny of the technology companies that form a part of our customer base have resulted in a period of social instability and potentially lasting change in the technology industry. Belarus has experienced numerous and continued public protest activities and civil unrest since the presidential election in early August 2020, with active government and police-force intervention. The extent and duration of the instability in Belarus remains uncertain. Russia has also experienced similar public protest activities and civil unrest related to political matters with uncertain extent and duration. Continuing armed conflict in parts of eastern Ukraine and weak economic conditions that deteriorated because of the COVID-19 pandemic have fueled ongoing economic uncertainty in Ukraine, and Armenia and Azerbaijan recently agreed to a ceasefire after a long-term conflict erupted into open military engagement between the two countries in October 2020. Our personnel are not located in the volatile regions of Eastern Ukraine or Armenia. However, economic, civil, and political uncertainty exists and may continue in many of the regions where we operate and derive our revenue. International responses, including European Union and U.S. sanctions against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, prolonged political and civil instability in the U.S, and each countrys potential response to such sanctions and tensions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 12 Table of Contents EPAM is actively monitoring and enhancing the security of our people and the stability of our infrastructure and the general infrastructure in the countries where we operate; and responding to outages in communications and internet availability according to our multilayer business continuity plans. To date we have not experienced any significant interruptions in our infrastructure, utility supply or internet connectivity needed to support our customers. We have developed and, in some cases, implemented additional contingency plans to relocate work and/or personnel to other locations and add new locations, as appropriate. Our business continuity plans are designed to address known contingency scenarios to ensure that we have adequate processes and practices in place to protect the safety of our people and to handle potential impacts to our delivery capabilities. Our crisis management procedures, business continuity plans, and disaster recovery capabilities may not be effective at preventing or mitigating the effects of prolonged or multiple crises, such as civil unrest, military conflict, and a pandemic in a concentrated geographic area. The current events in the regions where we operate and where we derive a significant amount of our business may pose security risks to our people, our facilities, our operations, and infrastructure, such as utilities and network services, and the disruption of any or all of them could materially adversely affect our operations and/or financial results. Whether in these countries or in others in which we operate, civil unrest, political instability or uncertainty, military activities, or broad-based sanctions, should they continue for the long term or escalate, could require us to rebalance our geographic concentrations and could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Increases in wages, equity compensation, and other compensation expenses could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage, increase our costs, and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wages for technology professionals in the emerging markets where we have significant operations and delivery centers are lower than comparable wages in more developed countries. However, wages in the technology industry in these countries may increase at a faster rate than in the past, which may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our people. If we increase operations and hiring in more developed economies, our compensation expenses will increase because of the higher wages demanded by technology professionals in those markets. Wage inflation, whether driven by competition for talent or ordinary course pay increases, may also increase our cost of providing services and reduce our profitability if we are not able to pass those costs on to our customers or charge premium prices when justified by market demand. We expect to continue our practice of granting equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and paying other stock-based compensation. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may make issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plans less attractive to us, but if we reduce the amount or value of equity award grants, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Conversely, if we grant more or higher value equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the equity compensation expenses could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New regulations, volatility in our stock, and dilution to our stockholders could diminish our use and the value of our equity-based awards. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or cause us to reconsider our compensation practices. Our operations in emerging markets subject us to greater economic, financial, and banking risks than we would face in more developed markets. Our significant operations in emerging market economies in Eastern Europe, India and certain other Asian countries are vulnerable to market and economic volatility to a greater extent than more developed markets, which presents risks to our business and operations. A majority of our revenues are generated in North America and Western Europe. However, most of our personnel and delivery centers are located in lower cost locations, including emerging markets. This exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, compensation, purchases, capital expenditures, receivables and other balance-sheet items. As we continue to leverage and expand our global delivery model into other emerging markets, a larger portion of our revenues and incurred expenses may be in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currency exchange volatility caused by economic instability or other factors could materially impact our results. See