Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Those future events and trends may relate to, among other things, developments relating to the war in Ukraine and escalation of the war in the surrounding region, political and civil unrest or military action in the geographies where we conduct business and operate, difficult conditions in global capital markets, foreign exchange markets and the broader economy, and the effect that these events may have on client demand, our revenues, operations, access to capital and profitability. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks, uncertainties and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may materially and adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to correct, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Overview EPAM has used its software engineering expertise to become a leading global provider of digital engineering, cloud and artificial intelligence-enabled transformation services, and a leading business and experience consulting partner for global enterprises and ambitious start-ups. We address our clients transformation challenges by fusing EPAM Continuums integrated strategy, experience and technology consulting with our 30+ years of engineering execution to speed our clients time to market and drive greater value from their innovations and digital investments. We leverage AI and GenAI to deliver transformative solutions that accelerate our clients' digital innovation and enhance their competitive edge. Through platforms like EPAM AI/RUN and initiatives like DIALX Lab, we integrate advanced AI technologies into tailored business strategies, driving significant industry impact and fostering continuous innovation. We deliver business and technology transformation from start to finish, leveraging agile methodologies, proven client collaboration frameworks, engineering excellence tools, multidisciplinary teams and our award-winning proprietary global delivery platform. We support our clients while enabling them to reimagine their businesses through a digital lens. In a business landscape that is constantly challenged by the pressures of digitization, we focus on building long-term partnerships with our clients through innovative and scalable software solutions, integrated strategy, experience and technology consulting, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities. Our historical core competencies, which include software development and product engineering services, combined with our work alongside global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies, laid the foundation for the evolution of our other offerings. These include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services, and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have expanded our geographic reach and service capabilities and will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our clients from a multitude of locations. Services We turn our clients operations into intelligent enterprise hubs with our proprietary platforms, integrated engineering practices and smart automation. Developing a digital experience or product from end-to-end requires input and expertise from a variety of professionals with a broad range of skills. Our multidisciplinary teams and global delivery framework come together to deliver well-rounded technology solutions that we believe bring a competitive advantage to our clients. In addition to utilizing our dedicated delivery centers, which allow us to deploy key delivery talent, we work closely with leading companies in various industries to enable our clients to better leverage technology and address the simultaneous pressures of driving value for their consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Our service offerings continuously evolve to provide more customized and integrated solutions to our clients. We combine software engineering with customer experience design, business consulting, strategy, and technology innovation services in areas such as cloud platforms, cybersecurity and artificial intelligence. Engineering Our engineering foundation underpins how we architect, build and scale next-generation software solutions and agile delivery teams. Our engineering expertise allows us to build enterprise technologies that improve business processes, offer smarter analytics and result in greater operational excellence through requirements analysis and platform selection, complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration. We have deep expertise and the ability to offer a comprehensive set of software product and platform development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as cross-platform migration and modernizing legacy platforms. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our clients chosen strategy and create custom solutions in order to architect the right solutions with built-in quality and security gates and accomplish the best outcome from the digital modernization efforts. 2 Table of Contents Cloud Cloud technology has become the default platform for nearly every digital use. We assist our clients in creating a roadmap to set and refine their IT and business goals while identifying new and emerging cloud opportunities. Cloud technology endows adaptive enterprises with agility and flexibility, paving the way for new business models, cutting-edge products, and the acceleration of dynamic experiences for a faster time-to-market. Our experts have a solid understanding of infrastructure and are skilled at advancing the pace of change. Additionally, we assist our clients with developing and executing optimal cloud technology migration strategies and provide customized cloud solutions. Data, Analytics and Artificial Intelligence With deep expertise in data and analytics, business intelligence and cloud platform development, we navigate the complexities of building and scaling new data capabilities necessary for the evolving environment. From migrating data platforms to the cloud to implementing data governance practices across the enterprise, we help our clients unlock data-reliant outcomes for their business, ushering them into the future. Our integrated teams of business and technology experts assess our clients data ecosystems, build roadmaps and deliver data solutions to the market. We drive AI and GenAI strategy, delivery and enablement from a business perspective to ensure meaningful, sustained outcomes. Our hybrid, networked teams of consultants, designers, architects, engineers and trainers have developed numerous proprietary data accelerators, repeatable AI frameworks and methodologies that can be implemented quickly and at scale. With our end-to-end AI capabilities, we uncover opportunities for AI, advise and then build solutions that unlock new business models, enhance productivity, automate operations, and deliver deeper customer and supply chain insights. Customer Experience Design We enable our clients to better leverage technology more effectively, addressing the simultaneous pressures of driving value for their consumers and offering more engaging experiences. We apply innovative design ideas for clients looking to improve user experiences and drive greater customer engagement. We assist them in digitally transforming into adaptive, product-centric organizations that reinvent experiences in real time. Additionally, we specialize in physical experience where we conceive, develop physical products and design spaces for a digital world. Within our clients organizations, we reshape processes for the workforce through engaging, enabling and empowering experiences. Moreover, we help set up marketing teams and brands to remain relevant in the future. Cybersecurity We guide our clients through achieving operational resilience against evolving cybersecurity threats. This requires pervasive security that matches the rapid pace of agile development, ensures regulatory compliance, training, and aligns with business objectives. We help our clients achieve their security objectives through our security by design approach, architect security controls into systems and processes, and our agile security platform, AI-driven tools that allow for rapid threat responses and attack simulations. We approach enterprise security holistically, extending our services across proactive defense and actionable intelligence to engineer an effective security model. Our specialties within the cybersecurity domain include managed detection and response, digital risk management, cybersecurity advisory, cloud and data security, zero trust design and implementation and cyber intelligence and managed incident response services. Industry Expertise Strong industry-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with our clients business processes, enables us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. Our clients operate in five main industry verticals as well as a number of emerging verticals where we are increasing our presence. Financial Services We have significant experience working with global investment banks, wealth and investment management institutions, commercial and retail lending institutions, credit card and payment solution companies, trading platforms, exchanges and brokerages, capital markets, insurers and various other providers of financial services and financial technology. We assist these clients with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, client-based needs and risk management. Our financial services domain experts have been recognized with industry awards for engineering and deploying unique applications and business solutions that facilitate growth, competitiveness, regulatory compliance and client interaction while driving cost efficiency and digital transformation. 3 Table of Contents Consumer Goods, Retail & Travel In this vertical, our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that consumer goods manufacturers, global, regional and local retailers, online retail brands and marketplaces, distributors and supply chain organizations as well as leading airlines, travel agencies and global hotel brands use to enhance their clients experience and efficiently manage their operations. We deliver a wide range of services to these clients from complex system modernization, brand strategy and space design, digital marketing, payments and loyalty programs to inventory and order management, leading edge innovations in multi-channel sales and distribution. We have transformed organizations by enabling them to use technology to expand and revolutionize their business models. Our services directly impact strategy and facilitate the creation of breakthrough products and compelling brand and employee experiences, helping our clients outpace competitors. Software and Hi-Tech We offer complex software product development services to address the constant need for innovation and agility among software and technology companies. Some of the most prominent software brands in the world partner with us to build technology consulting, core engineering and full-scale integration capabilities. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech research and development, software engineering and integration, we have established proprietary internal processes, methodologies as well as information technology infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving clients in the Hi-Tech and Software product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development, including our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Business Information and Media We help our business information and media clients build products and solutions for modern platforms including web media streaming, mobile information delivery, print to digital transformations and information discovery and search. Our solutions aid our clients in developing new revenue sources, accelerating content management, delivery and monetization, and reaching broader audiences. We serve a diverse set of clients in this vertical including entertainment media, news and sports broadcasting companies, financial data and legal information providers, content distributors, educational materials publishers and advertising networks. Life Sciences and Healthcare We partner with global pharmaceutical, medical and scientific technology, biotechnology companies and retail pharmacies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. Our Life Sciences experts utilize their extensive technology skill set to provide deep scientific and mathematical knowledge to broad-based initiatives. Our Life Sciences solutions enable clients to speed research and accelerate time-to-market while enhancing collaboration, knowledge management and operational excellence. We help our clients in the Healthcare industry to adapt to changing regulatory environments and improve the quality of care, all while managing the cost of care through integrated health solutions for patients and providers and human-centered design. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, development and managed services to clients ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. Emerging Verticals We also serve the diverse technology needs of clients in the energy, telecommunications, educational, real estate, industrial materials, automotive and various manufacturing industries, as well as government entities. For these clients we develop tools such as plant management platforms, energy saving applications, inventory management mechanisms, and connected vehicle platforms. Additionally, we undertake various industry-specific aspects of intelligent automation and operational efficiency. Clients We maintain a geographically diverse client base in multiple industries. Our focus on delivering quality service is reflected in established relationships with many of our clients, with 65.4% and 34.6% of our revenues in 2024 coming from clients that had used our services for at least five and ten years, respectively. We aim to grow our client portfolios organically and through strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. The following table shows revenues from the top five and ten clients in the respective year as a percentage of revenues for that year: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Top five clients 15.8 % 16.6 % 16.4 % Top ten clients 23.4 % 23.6 % 23.8 % As we remain committed to diversifying our client base and adding more clients to our client mix, we expect revenue concentration from our top clients to decrease over the long-term. 4 Table of Contents See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to revenues. See Note 19 Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to our reportable segments. Global Delivery Model Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our global delivery centers to our clients across the world. Over the years we have developed a robust global delivery model that serves as a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better meet our clients diverse needs and to provide a compelling value proposition. We continuously evolve our delivery platform to support our business needs and strategy by engaging personnel with diversified skills in existing and new locations. As of December 31, 2024, we had approximately 55,100 delivery personnel consisting mainly of our core information technology professionals as well as consultants, designers, architects, engineers and trainers. We serve our clients through on-site, off-site and offshore locations across the world and use strategically located delivery centers to offer a strong, diversified and cost-effective delivery platform. In the normal course of business, we may relocate or assist in relocating our employees as business needs arise, new office geographies are added or client engagements require teams to be available in particular locations. During 2024, India became our largest delivery location, measured by the number of delivery professionals, and as of December 31, 2024, we had 10,072 delivery professionals in this location. We focused on growing India as a key delivery location and added 3,006 delivery professionals since December 31, 2023. Ukraine continues to be a significant delivery location for us and we had 8,764 delivery professionals there as of December 31, 2024, compared with 9,113 delivery professionals as of December 31, 2023. Since the Russian forces' attack on Ukraine and its people began on February 24, 2022, our operations in Ukraine have not been significantly impacted, and our teams remain highly focused on maintaining uninterrupted production. Our highest priority remains the safety and security of our employees and their families in Ukraine as well as in the broader region, and we have continued to support relocating our employees to lower risk locations, both inside Ukraine and to other countries where we operate. The vast majority of our Ukraine employees are in safe locations and we continuously monitor the situation. In response to the war in Ukraine, we shifted the way we operate in our delivery locations by discontinuing our operations in Russia and continuing to execute our business continuity plans and sustaining our hiring efforts across multiple locations in India, Central and Western Asia, Latin America, and Central and Eastern Europe. In addition to hiring efforts, the acquisitions of businesses that we complete further diversify our employee base and delivery locations. Our other large delivery locations are Poland, Mexico and Belarus with approximately 5,000, 3,525, and 3,350 delivery professionals, respectively, as of December 31, 2024. Our global delivery centers throughout the world, including in Ukraine, have sufficient resources, including infrastructure and capital, to support ongoing operations. Human Capital Our employees are a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and serve our clients. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our clients and investors. Therefore, it is critical to our success that we are able to identify, attract, hire and retain delivery professionals who are highly skilled in information technology to execute our services, as well as individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, human resources and other key management positions. To attract, retain and motivate our employees, we offer a dynamic work environment, a culture that values the individual, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement with continuous rotation and promotion opportunities while providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. As of December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, we had approximately 61,200, 53,150, and 59,300 employees, respectively, of which approximately 55,100, 47,350, and 52,850 were delivery professionals, respectively. 5 Table of Contents Health, Safety, and Wellness: We invest in programs designed to improve the physical, mental, and social well-being of our employees so we can offer a safe, welcoming, and productive workplace that supports and enhances the work-life balance and wellness of our employees. Our health and safety programs are designed to comply with the regulations in the multiple cities and countries where we operate but also provide working conditions that are compatible with the necessities of our delivery and administrative operations, whether our employees choose to work remotely or in EPAMs or our clients offices. Recruitment, Training and Utilization: As an innovation-driven business in a competitive industry, our success depends on hiring the most talented employees, training and developing that talent, and deploying them to satisfy client demand. We are particularly focused on identifying and cultivating the next generation of exceptional leaders, emphasizing technical expertise, while enhancing succession pipelines and improving diversity in our key positions. We have dedicated full-time employees who oversee all aspects of our human capital management process including talent acquisition teams to locate and attract qualified and experienced professionals around the world. Our employees are a critical asset, necessary for our continued success and, therefore, we are continuously exploring new geographies, markets, and sources to locate talented personnel and present them with competitive compensation programs and educational opportunities. We actively monitor how weutilize our delivery professionals and specialists to balance the needs of our clients with the availability, location, and skill sets of our employees and their need for diverse and challenging work. We manage utilization through strategic hiring and efficient staffing of projects for our clients. For the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, the utilization rates of our delivery professionals were approximately 76.7%, 74.3%, and 75.8%, respectively. EPAM invests significant resources in training and developing our employees through our learning and development programs. Our largest learning and development investment has been directed towards developing our engineering talent, including targeted training programs, innovation labs, and significant internal production projects. Our employees consumed 2.4 million learning hours in 2024. We deliver training and development opportunities and content through our unique learning ecosystem that promotes learning in the daily workflow to improve retention and productivity, and through dedicated learning events. We deliver learning and development content through proprietary platforms that are available to all of our employees. Our digital learning platform provides our employees with a recommendation engine that suggests courses and materials based on employee role, level, location and skills. Our electronic library platform makes books and publications available to all of our employees and we celebrate learning achievements through our recognition portal, where we promote our employees learning accomplishments and employees can recognize each other for their teamwork, initiative, and unique, valuable skills. Culture: EPAM provides our clients with the skills of our talented personnel, which includes people with varied backgrounds and characteristics, to drive innovation and varied approaches to delivering our services. We believe that innovation comes from the unique perspectives, knowledge, and experiences of our global employees, so we strive to create a culture to support that uniqueness by creating employee groups that recognize and share the varied perspectives of our personnel so employees of all backgrounds, interests, and identities can grow and thrive professionally. Increasing the breadth of viewpoints and experiences in executive and key operational leadership roles is an organizational priority that starts at the top of our organization. Women currently represent approximately 44% of the independent directors on our Board and we have developed programs to identify, retain, mentor, and supply a pipeline of qualified candidates from all backgrounds at every level of our Company. Our programs include dedicating resources and personnel in our talent acquisition team to identify, recognize, and hire from underrepresented groups in engineering, IT, and business. Recognizing that giving all people access to jobs in the software and technology industries starts with access to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, EPAM created the EPAM E-Kids program where our employees volunteer their time to teach elementary school age children STEM concepts and introductory software coding skills. As of the end of 2024, we offered the EPAM E-Kids program in 25 countries. Employee Engagement and Retention: As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to respecting our employees' fundamental human rights at work. We believe that retaining skilled talent requires substantially more than meeting basic employment and labor rights, and that employees who are fairly compensated, feel supported in their career development, and are engaged with their employer are more likely to remain with that employer. That is why we strive to provide pay and benefits that demonstrate the value of our employees to us, including a competitive salary, flexible work-life balance, paid time off, health coverage, ongoing training programs, relocation options, and recognition opportunities for open-source software contributions. 6 Table of Contents Our career development programs create detailed and progressive training plans for our employees and help them choose from internal and external training options, mentoring programs, and hands-on opportunities to experience emerging technology areas. We designed our career development programs to enable our employees to develop their engineering skills, influence our culture, develop thought leadership, and introduce them to leaders in our industry. Our career development programs also give our employees opportunities to earn accreditation and relevant expertise in various technology fields, including software and project management certifications and recognition and credentialing from the industrys primary software and cloud services providers. We focus on retaining and engaging top talent by hiring people with the skill sets our clients need and who also share our values so we can build long-term employee satisfaction, which is supported by our voluntary attrition rate of 8.9%, 8.6%, and 13.8% in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We endeavor to recruit for careers, not for short-term projects, and actively foster feedback from our employees so we can improve the EPAM employee experience. Receiving and learning from employee feedback plays a critical role in engaging and retaining our employees because it offers us insights on how we can improve our operations and enhance the skills of our employees. Our employees have demonstrated their satisfaction with our approach by giving their highest percentage of positive responses in our 2024 employee survey when asked if they can easily get support from their colleagues (93%), if they get management support (92%), if they feel that EPAM provides a supportive environment for all employees, regardless of gender, race, background, religion, or other personal traits (89%), and if they feel comfortable being themselves while working for EPAM (89%). Our focus on our employees experience is recognized inside and outside of EPAM. In 2023, the employee experience we create was recognized with awards from a number of different organizations in North America, Europe, and Asia, and we were also named on Newsweeks list of Top 100 Most Loved Workplaces for the fourth consecutive year and recognized by Glassdoor as a Best Workplace for three consecutive years. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services through our senior management, sales and business development teams, account managers, and professional staff. Our client service professionals and account managers, who maintain direct client relationships, play an integral role in engaging with current clients to identify and pursue potential business opportunities. This strategy has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing client base and we believe that our reputation as a reliable provider of software engineering solutions drives additional business from inbound requests and referrals. In addition to effective client management, our sales model also utilizes an integrated sales and marketing approach that leverages a dedicated sales team to identify and acquire new accounts. We maintain a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as participation in and the hosting of industry conferences and events as well as sponsorship of programming competitions. We have been recognized by many top global independent research agencies, such as Forrester, Gartner, IDC and Everest and by publications such as Newsweek, Forbes and Fortune. We are proud to be among the top 15 companies in Information Technology Services in the Fortune 1000 and to be recognized as a leader in the IDC MarketScapes for Worldwide Experience Build Services, Worldwide Experience Design Services and Worldwide Software Engineering Services. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from multiple market participants such as other global technology solutions providers, specialized consulting firms, boutique digital companies and outsourcing companies based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as Eastern Europe, India, Latin America and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, a reputation for and a track record of high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to clients business needs, ability to scale, financial stability and price. We face competition from various technology services providers such as Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, Endava, Genpact, GlobalLogic, Globant, Grid Dynamics, HCL Technologies, Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services, and Wipro, among others. Additionally, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. We believe that our focus on complex and innovative software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and our development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. 7 Table of Contents Quality Management and Information Security We are continuously investing in systems, applications, tools and infrastructure to manage all aspects of our global delivery process in order to manage quality and information security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our clients. We have developed sophisticated project management techniques and procedures facilitated through our proprietary project management tools, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical for visibility into project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents. These tools promote collaboration and effective oversight, reduce work time and costs, and increase quality for our IT management and our clients. We maintain, monitor, and improve processes and infrastructure to protect our, our clients and their customers confidential and sensitive information and allocate internal and external resources to assess and ensure information security, cybersecurity and data privacy. We have made significant investments in the appropriate people, processes and technology to establish and manage information security, confidentiality requirements, and laws and regulations governing our activities, such as the European Union data protection legal framework referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act and California Privacy Rights Act, and others. We maintain a focus on adhering to stringent security, privacy and quality standards as well as internal controls which are compliant with ISO 27001, ISO 27701 and ISO 9001 standards. For certain services, EPAM obtains SOC1, SOC2, and/or SOC3 reports and shares them with our clients. These audits are performed by an independent auditor utilizing globally recognized attestation standards (ISAE 3402 and ISAE 3000). Our SOC reports, along with other certifications we hold, provide our clients with independent third-party assurance and validation of our information security, privacy management, quality management and general controls practices. Corporate and Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social, and Governance Initiatives We are committed to integrating positive social, environmental and ethical practices into our business operations, corporate governance, and strategy. This commitment is key to our continual development as a business and drives value for our employees, clients, business partners, the community and other stakeholders. We practice the principles established in our Code of Ethical Conduct by making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate and championing corporate social responsibility efforts. Through our focused efforts in the areas of Education, Environment, and Community, we are committed to sharing the expertise and attributes of our highly skilled global workforce to effectively support the needs of and positively add to the world at large and the communities where we work and live. By understanding our impact on local, regional and global communities, we strive to create positive change and opportunities in areas where it is needed most. We believe responsible stewardship of the environment is critical, and we take this responsibility seriously. We continually strive to improve our environmental performance through implementation of sustainable development and environmental practices including recycling and upcycling electronics and computers, designing and releasing a carbon footprint calculator to our employees and the general public, and building new offices according to the conservation standards of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system. EPAM was a Frost & Sullivan Enlightened Sustainable Growth Leader for the past three consecutive years. Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is important to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our knowledge, create solutions for our clients, and continuously advance our information security. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, cybersecurity, and confidentiality obligations to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all deliverable intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment or provision of services and to keep any disclosed information confidential. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our clients and suppliers to protect information and maintain information security. Our agreements with our clients cover our use of their software systems and platforms as our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software, products, and solutions we develop for them. Furthermore, we often grant our clients a nonexclusive license to use relevant technologies in our pre-existing intellectual property portfolio, but only to the extent necessary to use the software or systems we develop for them. Our suppliers are generally bound by our supplier code of conduct, which imposes an obligation to protect our and our clients intangible assets, including confidential information, personal information, and intellectual property, and to protect the security of those assets. 8 Table of Contents Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation and Legislation and Risks Related to Information Security and Data Protection. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, and data privacy regulations. Compliance with these laws requires significant resources and non-compliance may result in civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at https://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. These filings are available through the SECs website at https://www.sec.gov which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically through the SECs EDGAR System. We also make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, https://investors.epam.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Listed below, not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence, are the most significant risk factors applicable to us. Additionally, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to Geopolitical Events Instability in geographies where we have significant operations and personnel or where we derive substantial amounts of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, clients, service delivery, and financial results. Volatile, negative, and uncertain global macroeconomic and geopolitical conditions have and could continue to reduce confidence in our business and our delivery model and in the businesses and markets served by our clients. The important markets for both our clients and our delivery operations are increasingly interdependent and uncertainty about the outcome of changing economic and geopolitical conditions in those markets has caused, and could continue to cause our clients to reduce or defer their spending on new initiatives and technologies, resulting in clients reducing, delaying or eliminating spending on our services which negatively affects our business. Civil, military, energy supply and political uncertainty exists and may increase in many of the regions where we operate and derive our revenues and macroeconomic forces largely have global effects with varying intensity across the different regions where we and our clients operate. Our ability to counter or attenuate the negative impacts of global macroeconomic forces on our business is limited. With respect to geopolitical instability, we have developed business continuity plans that are designed to ensure that we have adequate processes and practices in place to protect the safety of our people and to handle foreseeable impacts on our delivery capabilities, but our crisis management procedures, business continuity plans, and disaster recovery capabilities may not be effective at preventing or mitigating the effects of prolonged, unanticipated, or multiple crises, such as civil unrest, energy instability and a pandemic in multiple geographies where we or our clients operate. Increased operations, service delivery, and hiring in existing or new geographies to counter geopolitical instability in or near our delivery operations, including in more developed economies, has and is likely to continue to increase our expenses, especially compensation expenses for technology professionals in those geographies, which could reduce the profitability of our business. 9 Table of Contents Disruptions in the regions where we operate have and could continue to pose security risks to our people, our facilities, our operations, and the infrastructure we use. Further disruption could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results, cause additional volatility in the price of our stock, and reduce our profitability. In any of the countries in which we operate, prolonged civil unrest, political instability or uncertainty, military activities, broad-based sanctions or counter-sanctions, should they continue for the long-term or escalate, could require us to further rebalance our geographic concentrations and could have a material adverse effect on our personnel, operations, financial results and business outlook. The invasion of Ukraine and the resulting war has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our personnel, business, and finances. We have significant operations and personnel in Ukraine and Belarus. Ongoing conflict and disruption in the region following Russias invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operations, personnel, business, clients, service delivery, and financial results. In particular, as of December 31, 2024, approximately 13,950 of our global delivery, administrative and support personnel were based in Ukraine and Belarus, both of which are involved in or affected by Russias invasion of Ukraine. While a significant number of our employees from Belarus and from our former operations in Russia have relocated since the Russian invasion, we expect to continue operating in Ukraine, Belarus and in bordering Eastern Europe and Central Asia countries. All of these countries currently are, and in the future may be, adversely impacted by regional instability. Any escalation of the conflict that includes Belarus or its military could jeopardize our personnel, facilities, and operations in Belarus. In addition to a significant number of personnel and operations in Ukraine, we also own an office building in Kyiv and lease office space in a number of cities in Ukraine, all or some of which may be damaged or destroyed as a result of the continued attacks against Ukraine. The impact of any escalation on Ukraine, as well as responses by countries that provide military aid to Ukraine or institute sanctions against officials, individuals, institutions, companies, and industries in Belarus and in the annexed portions of Ukraine, and counter-responses taken by Russia and its allied countries has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operations. In order to protect against potential cyberattacks or other information security threats, some of our clients have implemented steps to block internet communications with Ukraine and Belarus, which has had a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our services from those locations to those clients. Our clients have sought and may continue to seek altered contract terms and delivery locations for the performance of services, delay planned work, seek services from competitors, or suspend, terminate, or reduce existing contracts or services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The material adverse effects from the conflict and enhanced sanction and counter-sanctions activity have caused us to shift portions of our delivery capabilities to other countries and may continue to disrupt our delivery of services and restrict our ability to engage in certain projects or with certain clients. EPAM is actively monitoring and enhancing security related to our people and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications, physical assets, energy supplies, and internet availability. We execute our business continuity plans in response to developments as they occur and to protect and relocate our personnel and address impacts on our delivery infrastructure. To date we have not experienced any material interruptions in our infrastructure or the utility supply or internet connectivity we use to support our clients. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the war in Ukraine or its impacts in Belarus or the region because the conflict and government reactions are rapidly changing and beyond our control. If the military conflict, sanctions, and counter-sanctions in Ukraine, Belarus, and the surrounding region continue for the long-term or escalate, we could be required to further rebalance our geographic concentrations and it could have a material adverse effect on our personnel, operations, financial results and business outlook. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Personnel and Growth We may be unable to effectively manage our growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management, systems, resources, and results of operations. We have experienced uneven growth, expansion, geographic shifts, and periods of decline in our business over the past several years. Our growth and expansion have been both organic and through strategic acquisitions and investments and has resulted in part from managing larger and more complex projects for our clients. Consequently, we have and may continue to invest substantial amounts of cash in human capital and the infrastructure to support these projects, including training, administration, and opening facilities in existing and new geographies. Our growth has significantly slowed at times, particularly during 2023 and the first half of 2024, due to reduced client demand resulting primarily from uncertain macroeconomic conditions. Rapid growth followed by decreased demand placed significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, and created and may continue to create challenges, including: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled professionals and management personnel while balancing headcount with client requirements; balancing an increase in the number of experienced personnel that have correspondingly higher billing rates due to promotions against hiring, training, and deploying less experienced personnel at the lower rates sought by clients; planning and maintaining resource utilization rates consistently and efficiently using on-site, off-site, near shore, and offshore staffing; developing and maintaining close and effective relationships with potential and existing clients in a greater number of industries and locations; controlling costs and minimizing cost overruns and project delays in our delivery operations and infrastructure; effectively maintaining productivity levels and implementing process improvements across geographies and businesses during periods of uneven client demand; and evolving our information security and our internal administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. If clients do not choose us for large and complex projects or we do not effectively manage those projects, our reputation may be damaged and we will not realize our business and financial goals that support new investments and infrastructure projects. We have and will continue to invest in new lines of business, such as software development education, AI and generative AI, expanded consulting services, and in new geographies. As we introduce new services, enter into new markets and new client relationships, and take on increasingly large and complex projects, our business will face new risks and challenges. Expansion into direct-to-consumer offerings in the highly regulated education industry and joint venture relationships with our clients could result in increased liability, start-up, and compliance costs. If the challenges associated with expansion and new investments negatively impact our anticipated growth and margins, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must successfully attract, hire, train and retain qualified personnel to service our clients projects and we must productively utilize those personnel to remain profitable. Identifying, recruiting, hiring and retaining professionals with skill sets that meet our existing and anticipated demand across our business is critical to maintaining existing engagements and obtaining new business but has become more challenging in changing economic and labor climates. If we are unable to recruit professionals with the skills required by our business and if we do not productively deploy our professionals, infrastructure, and fixed-cost resources productively, our profitability will be significantly impacted. Additionally, if we are unable to effectively train existing personnel to develop new skills and adequately maintain existing skills, our ability to win new work and successfully complete existing projects may be impaired. We must manage the utilization levels of our professionals by effectively planning for future needs and staffing projects appropriately while accurately predicting the general economy, the geographies and locations where our personnel are needed, and our clients need for our services. If we are unable to attract, hire, train, and retain highly skilled personnel and productively deploy them on client projects, we will jeopardize our ability to meet our clients expectations and develop current and future business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Competition for highly skilled professionals and wage expectations is intense in the markets where we operate or plan to operate, and we may experience significant employee turnover rates or recruiting challenges due to such competition. If we are unable to retain professionals with specialized skills, our revenues, operating efficiency and profitability will decrease, as will our ability to meet emerging technological challenges. Cost reductions, such as reducing headcount or voluntary departures that result from our failure to retain the professionals we hire, negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire personnel to meet our business requirements. We may be unable to obtain price increases in-line with increasing compensation to retain personnel which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. If we are unable to keep pace with the adoption and use of generative AI technology in our business and effectively implement generative AI in our workforce planning and deployment, we could become less competitive in our industry. We have been incorporating AI, and particularly generative AI, into our products, services, and business, both due to client demand and because we expect that integrating generative AI into our services is a competitive requirement in a rapidly evolving market. We have made significant investments to build and support AI capabilities, products, and services to meet clients needs and remain competitive in our industry and expect to make additional investments in the future. If we are unable or slow to develop, adopt, and deploy generative AI technologies in our business, we will not remain competitive against our industry peers. Generative AI technologies have changed how we identify, recruit, hire, retain, and efficiently utilize our professionals and are changing how we can charge for their services. Our clients have asked, and may come to expect, that we use generative AI along with human delivery personnel to develop software for them at comparatively lower costs than software developed solely by our human delivery personnel. As we plan, develop, and implement changes to our delivery model to balance those services that can only be performed by humans against those that can be performed leveraging generative AI, we may have insufficient or excess delivery personnel than we require to meet client demand. Clients may be unwilling to pay rates for human delivery personnel if they perceive that the same services can be performed less expensively by generative AI and may seek other service providers or expect price concessions to retain their business, which could adversely affect our financial results. There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of some of our personnel or the exempt status of our employees is successfully challenged. In several countries, some of our personnel or the personnel of companies that we acquired are retained as independent contractors. Determining whether an individual is considered an independent contractor or an employee is typically fact sensitive, varies by jurisdiction, and is subject to change and interpretation. If a government authority changes the applicable laws or a court makes an adverse determination with respect to independent contractors in general or our independent contractors specifically, we could incur significant costs, including for prior periods, related to tax withholding, social security taxes or payments, workers compensation and unemployment contributions, and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and increase the difficulty of attracting and retaining personnel. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services and our succession planning efforts are ineffective. Our success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, they may take clients, suppliers, know-how and our personnel with them. If we are unable to attract new senior executives or key personnel due to the intense competition for talent in our industry, it could disrupt our business operations and growth. Although we regularly perform succession planning efforts and create contingencies addressing the risks of losing senior executives and other key personnel, those efforts may be ineffective when or if they are deployed. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to integrate or manage acquired companies efficiently and effectively, or if acquisitions do not perform to our expectations individually or in the aggregate, our overall profitability and growth plans could be materially adversely affected. Strategic acquisitions involve significant risks but remain a key part of our growth strategy. Acquired companies may not advance our business strategy or achieve a satisfactory return on our investment, we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired employees, businesses, company cultures, client relationships, or operations, and we may not discover significant liabilities in our due diligence or valuation processes. In addition, we may need to implement controls, processes, and policies in our acquired companies so they are consistent and appropriate with the requirements of a multi-national public company especially in areas such as financial reporting, cybersecurity, IT, and privacy and may rely on transition services from the sellers until we are able to implement those controls, processes, and policies. Furthermore, our acquired companies contracts with their clients sometimes lack terms and conditions that adequately protect us against the risks associated with the services we provide, and our acquired companies legacy business operations can expose us to potential liability. Acquisitions also divert significant management attention and financial resources from our ongoing business. If not effectively managed, the disruption to our ongoing business increases our expenses, including significant one-time expenses and costs related to unknown liabilities, including tax, litigation, cybersecurity, and commercial risks, and creates difficulty and complexity when integrating acquired operations that can adversely affect our overall growth and profitability. Risks Related to Our Operations Increases in wages, equity compensation, and other compensation expenses could limit our competitive advantage, increase our costs, and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wages for technology professionals in the emerging markets where we have significant operations and delivery centers are lower than comparable wages in more developed countries. However, wages in general, and in the technology industry in emerging markets in particular, have increased and will make us less competitive if we are not able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our people. Wage inflation, whether driven by competition for talent, ordinary course pay increases, or broader market forces, all increase our cost of providing services and reduce our profitability when we are not able to pass those costs on to our clients or adjust prices when justified by market demand. In addition, there are significant expenses associated with issuing stock-based compensation, and changes to our equity compensation practices and programs can affect our ability to attract and retain talent. Our operations in emerging markets subject us to greater economic, financial, and banking risks than we would face in more developed markets. We have significant operations in emerging market economies in Central and Eastern Europe, Latin and South America, India, and certain other Asian countries, all of which are more vulnerable to market and economic volatility than larger and more developed markets and present risks to our business and operations. A majority of our revenues are generated in North America and Western Europe. However, most of our personnel and delivery centers are located outside of those geographies, including emerging markets. This exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, compensation, purchases, capital expenditures, receivables and other balance-sheet items. As we continue to leverage and expand our global delivery model into other emerging markets, a larger portion of our revenues and incurred expenses may be in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currency exchange volatility caused by economic instability or other factors could materially impact our results. See