Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item, Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors in this quarterly report. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Executive Summary We are a leading global provider of digital platform engineering and software development services offering specialized technological solutions to many of the worlds leading organizations. Our customers depend on us to solve their complex technical challenges and rely on our expertise in core engineering, advanced technology, digital design and intelligent enterprise development. We continuously explore opportunities in new industries to expand our core industry client base in software and technology, financial services, business information and media, travel and consumer, retail and distribution, and life sciences and healthcare. Our teams of developers, architects, consultants, strategists, engineers, designers, and product experts have the capabilities and skill sets to deliver business results. Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage the efficiency of our global operations. As a result, we have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global customers across all geographies, further strengthening our relationships with them. Through increased specialization in focused verticals and a continued emphasis on strategic partnerships, we are leveraging our roots in software engineering to grow as a recognized brand in software development and end-to-end digital transformation services for our customers. Business Update Regarding COVID-19 The COVID-19 global pandemic continued to cause substantial global public health and economic challenges during the third quarter of 2020 and our employees, communities and business operations, as well as the global economy and financial markets all continue to be affected. We cannot accurately predict the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will continue to directly and indirectly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future developments and actions to contain the public health and economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the markets we serve are rapidly evolving and highly uncertain. To the extent that the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) refers to a financial or performance metric that has been affected by a trend or activity, that reference is in addition to any impact of the COVID-19 pandemic disclosed in and supplemented by this section. The information contained in this section is accurate as of the date hereof, but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our present awareness or control. Our COVID-19 Pandemic Response Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have made the safety and well-being of our employees our top priority. As governments lifted and now re-impose restrictions on group gatherings, commercial operations, and travel, we have applied those changing requirements to our business to maintain the health and safety of our employees and serve our customers consistent with appropriate public health considerations. Our business continuity plans are designed to ensure the safety and well-being of approximately 38,000 EPAM professionals while supporting the operations of hundreds of customers around the world. 30 Table of Contents Our Employees The vast majority of our employees are able to productively and securely work from a remote location and our remaining personnel are providing services to us or our customers from our offices or our customers facilities. We therefore do not expect that COVID-19 related restrictions on group gatherings and non-essential businesses will have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business or productively deliver services to our customers, nor on our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure