Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item, Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors in this quarterly report. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Executive Summary We are a leading global provider of digital platform engineering and software development services offering specialized technological solutions to many of the worlds leading organizations. Our customers depend on us to solve their complex technical challenges and rely on our expertise in core engineering, advanced technology, digital design and intelligent enterprise development. We continuously explore opportunities in new industries to expand our core industry client base in software and technology, financial services, business information and media, travel and consumer, retail and distribution, and life sciences and healthcare. Our teams of developers, architects, consultants, strategists, engineers, designers, and product experts have the capabilities and skill sets to deliver business results. Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage the efficiency of our global operations. As a result, we have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global customers across all geographies, further strengthening our relationships with them. Through increased specialization in focused verticals and a continued emphasis on strategic partnerships, we are leveraging our roots in software engineering to grow as a recognized brand in software development and end-to-end digital transformation services for our customers. Business Update Regarding COVID-19 During the first quarter of 2020, the spread of a new strain of coronavirus and the disease created by that virus, COVID-19, has created a global pandemic presenting substantial public health and economic challenges around the world. The global pandemic is affecting our employees, communities and business operations, as well as the global economy and financial markets. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning COVID-19, the actions taken to contain it or treat its impact and the economic impact on local, regional, national and international markets. The disclosure in the remainder of this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is qualified by the disclosure in this section on the impacts of COVID-19 and, to the extent that the disclosure in the remainder of this MD&A refers to a financial or performance metric that has been affected by a trend or activity, that reference is in addition to any impact discussed in this section of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic is rapidly evolving and, as such, the information contained herein is accurate as of the date hereof, but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our present awareness or control. 23 Table of Contents Our COVID-19 Pandemic Response Our top priority during the COVID-19 pandemic continues to be the safety and well-being of our employees. As governments institute and relax restrictions on social distancing, commercial operations, and travel, we are working to ensure we comply with frequently changing requirements while maintaining the health and safety of our employees and our ability to continue to serve our customers during and after these challenging times. When COVID-19 first appeared in China and then as it spread globally, we rapidly implemented our business continuity plans to ensure the safety and well-being of more than 37,300 EPAM professionals, while continuing to support the operations of hundreds of customers around the world. As of May 6, 2020, approximately 96% of EPAM employees have switched to a secure and productive work from home delivery model with minimal service interruptions and in close collaboration with our customers. Our Employees Our senior leadership team is deeply engaged in keeping our employees safe. With the vast majority of our employees able to work productively from a remote location, we do not expect that social distancing requirements or restrictions on non-essential businesses will have a material adverse effect on our ability to operate our business or productively deliver services to our customers, nor on our financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure