Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable law. EMERGING GROWTH COMPANY STATUS In April 2012, several weeks after our initial public offering in February 2012, President Obama signed into law the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act). The JOBS Act contains provisions that relax certain requirements for emerging growth companies that otherwise apply to larger public companies. For as long as a company retains emerging growth company status, it will not be required to (1) provide an auditors attestation report on the Companys internal control over financial reporting, otherwise required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (2) comply with any new or revised financial accounting standard applicable to public companies until such standard is also applicable to private companies, (3) comply with certain new requirements adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, (4) provide certain disclosure regarding executive compensation required of larger public companies or (5) hold shareholder advisory votes on matters relating to executive compensation. Based on our market capitalization on June 30, 2014, we were deemed a large accelerated filer as of December 31, 2014. Therefore, we no longer qualify as an emerging growth company. GEOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES We use the terms CIS and CEE to describe a portion of our geographic operations and assets. CIS, which stands for the Commonwealth of Independent States, is comprised of constituents of the former U.S.S.R., including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. CEE, which stands for Central and Eastern Europe, includes Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovakia, and Slovenia. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Company Background We are a leading global provider of complex software engineering solutions and information technology services to clients in locations worldwide. Our clients rely on us to deliver a broad range of software engineering, consulting and IT services, with a significant share of proactive, domain-led, high-value services aimed at improving the clients ability to innovate and reduce time to market. We draw on our extensive vertical, technology and process expertise and leverage industry standard technology, tools, platforms as well a portfolio of internally and externally developed assets in our delivery. We focus on building long-term partnerships with clients in various industries that demand technologically advanced skills and solutions and require quality and agility in delivery. Our industry expertise includes industries such as software and technology, banking and capital markets, business information and media, travel and hospitality, retail, energy, life sciences, healthcare, telecommunications, and government. We deliver services to clients located primarily in North America, Europe, and the CEE region and, beginning in 2014, Asia. Since our inception in 1993, we have focused on software product development services for major independent software vendors (ISVs) and technology companies and refined this core competency through repeat multi-year engagements. These companies produce advanced software and technology products that demand sophisticated software engineering talent, tools, methodologies and infrastructure to deliver solutions that support functionality and configurability to sustain multiple generations of platform innovation. Software product development for ISVs and technology companies requires high-quality software engineering talent, advanced knowledge of current methodologies and productivity tools, and strong project management practices. As a result, we have developed a culture focused on innovation, technology leadership and process excellence, which helps us maintain a strong reputation with our clients for technical expertise and high-quality project delivery. Our work with ISVs and technology companies, including both global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging, innovative technology companies focusing on new trends, exposes us to their customers business and strategic challenges, allowing us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise. Unlike custom application development, which is tailored to specific business requirements, software products of ISVs must be designed with a higher level of product configurability and operational performance to address the needs of a diverse set of end-users working in multiple industries and operating in a variety of deployment environments. In-depth understanding of how vertically-oriented ISVs and technology companies solve their clients challenges allows us to focus and grow our business in multiple industry verticals, predominantly Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Travel and Consumer. Our historical core competency is full lifecycle software development and product engineering services including design and prototyping, product development and testing, component design and integration, product deployment, performance tuning, porting and cross-platform migration. Our extensive experience in each of these areas created an unparalleled foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include custom application development, application testing, enterprise application platforms, application maintenance and support, and infrastructure management. In 2014, we completed several acquisitions to expand our global footprint and service offering. Our 2014 acquisitions of Netsoft Holdings LLC, Joint Technology Development Limited, GGA Software Services, LLC and Great Fridays Ltd. expanded our capabilities in the healthcare, financial services and digital design areas. We expect these strategic acquisitions will enable us to offer a wider range of services to our clients from a wider variety of locations. We added approximately 761 IT, design professionals and scientists to our employee base through these acquisitions in 2014. Our Approach Our delivery centers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Bulgaria, Armenia, Poland and China are strategically located in centers of software engineering talent and educational excellence. We believe the quality of our employees underpins our success and serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our clients. Our highly-skilled information technology, or IT professionals, combined with our extensive experience in delivering custom solutions that meet our clients pressing business needs, has allowed us to develop a deep culture of software engineering excellence. We believe this culture enables us to attract, train and retain talented IT professionals. 2 Table of Contents We employ highly-educated IT professionals, nearly all of whom hold a masters equivalent university degree in math, science or engineering and are generally proficient in English. To ensure we attract the best candidates from this deep talent pool, we have developed close relationships with leading universities across CEE, whereby we actively support curriculum development and engage students to identify their talents and interests. We continue to expand these efforts throughout the major talent hubs within CEE. Since inception, we have invested significant resources into developing a proprietary suite of internal applications and tools to manage all aspects of our delivery process. These applications and tools are effective in reducing risks, such as security breaches and cost overruns, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages to both our clients and us. In addition, these applications and tools enable us to provide solutions using the optimal software product development methodologies, including iterative methodologies such as Agile development. Our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients, thereby further strengthening our relationships with them. We believe we are the only ISAE 3402 Type 2 certified IT services provider with multiple delivery centers in CEE, based on our analysis of publicly available information of IT services providers. This certification is a widely recognized auditing standard developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, and it serves as additional assurance to our clients regarding the control environment and the security of their sensitive data. Furthermore, this is an important certification for firms in data and information-intensive industries, as well as any organization that is subject to the internal controls certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our ISAE 3402 Type 2 certification, in addition to our multiple ISO/IEC 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 attestations, underscores our focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls. Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe and the CIS. We maintain a geographically diverse client base with 50.4% of our 2014 revenues from clients located in North America, 39.0% from clients in Europe, 7.6% from clients in the CIS and 1.8% from our clients in APAC. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 93.1% and 81.5% of our revenues in 2014 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. In addition, we have significantly grown the size of existing accounts. For example, from 2008 to 2014, the number of clients accounting for over $5.0 million in annual revenues increased from seven to 24 , and those accounting for $1.0 million or more in revenues increased from 42 to 116 . Our Services Our service offerings cover the full software and product development lifecycle from digital strategy and customer experience design to enterprise application platforms implementation and program management services and from complex software development services to maintenance, support, custom application development, application testing, and infrastructure management. Our key service offerings include: Software Product Development Services We provide a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Custom Application Development Services We offer complete custom application development services to meet the requirements of businesses with sophisticated application development needs not adequately supported by packaged applications or by existing custom solutions. Our custom application development services leverage our experience in software product development as well as our industry expertise, prebuilt application solution frameworks and specific software product assets. Our range of services includes business and technical requirements analysis, user experience design, solution architecture creation and validation, development, component design and integration, quality assurance and testing, deployment, performance tuning, support and maintenance, legacy applications re-engineering/refactoring, porting and cross-platform migration and documentation. Application Testing Services We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals. Our Quality Management System complies with global quality standards such as ISO 9001:2008 and we employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools to deliver a comprehensive range of 3 Table of Contents testing services. Our application testing services include: (i) software application testing, including test automation tools and frameworks; (ii) testing for enterprise IT, including test management, automation, functional and non-functional testing, as well as defect management; and (iii) consulting services focused on helping clients improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. Enterprise Application Platforms As a proven provider of software product development services to major ISVs, we have participated in the development of industry standard technology and business application platforms and their components in such specific areas as customer relationship management and sales automation, enterprise resource planning, enterprise content management, business intelligence, e-commerce, mobile, Software-as-a-Service and cloud deployment. Our experience in such areas allows us to offer services around Enterprise Application Platforms, which include requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration, as well as support and maintenance. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our clients chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality necessary to address the needs of the clients users and customers. Application Maintenance and Support We deliver application maintenance and support services through a dedicated team of IT professionals. Our application maintenance and support offerings meet rigorous CMMI and ISAE 3402 Type 2 requirements. Our clients benefit from our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. Our services include incident management, fault investigation diagnosis, work-around provision, application bug fixes, release management, application enhancements and third-party maintenance. Infrastructure Management Services Given the increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures, our service offerings also cover infrastructure management services. We have significant expertise in implementing large infrastructure monitoring solutions, providing real-time notification and control from the low-level infrastructure up to and including applications. Our ISAE 3402 Type 2, ISO/IEC 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2008 certifications provide our clients with third-party verification of our information security policies. Our solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as incident notification and resolution. Our Vertical Markets Strong vertical-specific domain knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our clients, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. We have categorized our customers into four main industry verticals as follows: Independent Software Vendors (ISVs) and Technology; Banking and Financial Services; Business Information and Media; and Travel and Consumer. We also serve the diverse technology needs of clients in the energy, telecommunications, automotive, manufacturing, insurance, retail, healthcare and life sciences industries and the government. These industries comprise our Other vertical. 4 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our revenues by vertical by amount and as a percentage of our revenues for the periods presented: For the Years Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Banking and Financial Services $ 215,425 29.5 % $ 156,340 28.2 % $ 111,941 25.8 % ISVs and Technology 157,944 21.6 134,970 24.3 106,852 24.6 Travel and Consumer 157,756 21.6 117,248 21.1 95,965 22.1 Business Information and Media 91,726 12.6 75,677 13.6 62,398 14.4 Other 98,766 13.5 63,256 11.4 50,226 11.6 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 8,410 1.2 7,626 1.4 6,417 1.5 Revenues $ 730,027 100.0 % $ 555,117 100.0 % $ 433,799 100.0 % ISVs and Technology. Since our inception, we have focused on providing complex software product development services to meet ISVs and technology companies constant need for innovation and rapid time-to-market. Through our experience with many industry leaders, we have developed rigorous standards for software product development, as well as proprietary internal processes, methodologies and IT infrastructure. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing and performance tuning, deployment and maintenance and support. In addition, we are establishing close partner relationships with many of our ISV and technology company clients and are offering distributed professional services around their product offerings directly to our corporate clients. Banking and Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global retail and investment banks, investment firms, depositories, corporate treasuries, pension funds and market data providers. We offer a broad portfolio of services in asset and wealth management, corporate and retail banking, cards and payments, investment banking and brokerage, research and analysis, as well as governance, risk and compliance. We have also established a Capital Markets Competency Center, which facilitates knowledge exchange, education and collaboration across our organization and develops new software products, frameworks and components to further enhance our industry-specific solutions and services. Business Information and Media. We have established long-term relationships with leading business information and media companies, which enable us to bring sustainable value creation and enhanced return-on-content for organizations within this vertical. Our solutions help clients develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve clients in a range of business information and media sub-sectors, including entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors and advertising networks. Our Business Information Competency Center enables us to provide our clients with solutions that help them overcome challenges related to operating legacy systems, manage varied content formats, rationalize their online assets and lower their cost of delivery. In addition, we provide knowledge discovery platform services through our InfoNgen business, which combines custom taxonomy development with web crawling, internal file and e-mail classification, newsletter and feed publication and content trend analysis. Travel and Consumer. We have extensive experience in designing, implementing and supporting solutions for the travel and hospitality industry. This has led to the development of a substantial repository of knowledge components and solutions, such as our Loyalty, Marketing and Booking Engine frameworks, which results in accelerated development and implementation of solutions, while ensuring enterprise-class reliability. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. We also work closely with leading companies in the other industries to enable our clients to better leverage technology and address simultaneous pressures of driving value for the consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Our expertise allows us to integrate our services with our clients existing enterprise resource planning, billing fulfillment and customer relationship management solutions. Our digital strategy and experience design practice, EPAM Empathy Lab, provides strategy, design, creative, and program management services for clients looking to improve their customer experience. In 2014, we added a UK-based digital design presence through our acquisition of Great Fridays Limited. We also offer deep expertise across several domains including business-to-business and business-to-consumer e-commerce, customer/partner self-service, employee portals, online merchandising and sales, web content management, mobile solutions and billing. 5 Table of Contents Our Delivery Model We have delivery centers located in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Bulgaria, Armenia, Poland and China. We have client management locations in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Netherlands, Russia, Kazakhstan, Singapore, Hong Kong and Australia. We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our clients diverse needs and provide a compelling value proposition. Our primary delivery centers are located in Belarus, where we have 4,194 IT professionals as of December 31, 2014 . The majority of these IT professionals are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is a major educational and industrial center in CEE. Minsk is well-positioned to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base, good educational infrastructure and legacy as the center of computer science for the former Soviet Union. Furthermore, the IT industry in Belarus has been strongly supported by the government, which has taken steps to encourage investment in the IT sector through long-term tax incentives. Our delivery centers in Ukraine have 2,956 IT professionals as of December 31, 2014 . Our delivery centers in Russia have 1,714 IT professionals as of December 31, 2014 . Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government support of the IT industry. We believe our locations in Ukraine and Russia, along with our delivery centers in Belarus, offer a strong and diversified delivery platform across CEE. Our business has not been materially affected by the political and economic uncertainty in Russian or Ukraine to date. Our delivery centers in Hungary have 1,013 IT professionals as of December 31, 2014 , and serve as the center for our nearshore delivery capabilities to European clients. Hungarys geographic proximity, cultural affinity and similar time zones with our clients in Europe enables increased interaction that creates closer client relationships, increased responsiveness and more efficient delivery of our solutions. Quality and Process Management We have built complex proprietary applications and tools to manage quality, security and transparency of the delivery process in a distributed environment. Our proprietary ISO 9001:2008 and CMMI-certified Quality Management System has been documented, implemented and maintained to ensure the timely delivery of software development services to our clients. We have also developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our Project Management Center, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical to meeting or exceeding the service levels required by our clients. Our Quality Management System ensures that we provide timely delivery of software development services to enhance client satisfaction by enabling: objective valuation of the performed process, work products and services against the clients process descriptions, standards and procedures; identification, documentation and timely resolution of noncompliance issues; feedback to the clients project staff and managers on the results of quality assurance activities; monitoring and improvement of the software development process to ensure adopted standards and procedures are implemented and flaws are detected and resolved in a timely manner; and execution of planned and systematic problem prevention activities. Our proprietary Project Management Center supports our software development delivery model. Our Project Management Center is effective in reducing risks and providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages based on the following features: multi-site, multi-project capabilities; activity-based software development lifecycle, which fully tracks the software development activities through the project documentation; project, role-based access control, which can be available to us, clients and third parties; fully configurable workflow engine with built-in notification and messaging; extensive reporting capabilities and tracking of key performance indicators; and integration with Microsoft Project and Outlook. 6 Table of Contents The transparency and visibility into software development project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents and files provided by our Project Management Center promotes collaboration and strengthens our relationships with our clients. Improved traceability enables significant time savings and cost reductions for business users and IT management during change management for the software development lifecycle. The combination of our Project Management Center with our other proprietary internal applications enhances our offering by reducing errors, increasing quality and improving maintenance time. Combining applications can lead to more efficient communications and oversight for both clients and our staff. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy seeks to increase our revenues from new and existing clients through our account managers, sales and business development managers, vertical specialists, technical specialists and subject-matter experts. Given our focus on complex application development and the needs of our clients, we believe our IT professionals play an integral role in engaging with clients on potential business opportunities. Our account managers are organized vertically and maintain direct client relationships. They are responsible for handling inbound requests and referrals, identifying new business opportunities and responding to requests-for-proposals, or RFPs. Account managers typically engage technical and other specialists in responding to RFPs and pursuing opportunities. This sales model has been effective in promoting repeated business and growth from within our existing client base. In addition to effective client management, we believe that our reputation as a premium provider of software engineering solutions and information technology services drives additional business from inbound requests, referrals and RFPs. We enjoy published recognition from third-party industry observers, such as Forrester Research, Forbes Research, Everest Group, Zinnov, CIO Magazine, Information Week, and Software Magazine. We also maintain a dedicated sales force as well as a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts that range from sponsorship of programming competitions to participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events. Clients Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations. During 2014 , one customer, UBS AG , accounted for over 10% of our revenues. No customer accounted for over 10% of our revenues in 2013 or 2012 . The following table presents the percentage of our revenues by client location: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Client location 2014 2013 2012 North America 50.4 % 50.8 % 47.7 % Europe 39.0 36.1 35.8 CIS 7.6 11.7 15.0 APAC 1.8 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1.2 1.4 1.5 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Revenues by client location above differ from our segment information. Our operations consist of four reportable segments: North America, Europe, Russia and Other. This determination is based on the unique business practices and market specifics of each region and that each region engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses. Our reportable segments are based on managerial responsibility for a particular client. Because managerial responsibility for a particular client relationship generally correlates with the clients geographic location, there is a high degree of similarity between client locations and the geographic boundaries of our reportable segments. In some specific cases, however, managerial responsibility for a particular client is assigned to a management team in another region, usually based on the strength of the relationship between client executives and particular members of our senior management team. In such case, the clients activity would be reported through the reportable segment. Particularly, our newly acquired clients in the APAC region are reported as part of the Europe segment based on the managerial responsibility for those clients. The following table presents 7 Table of Contents the percentage of our revenues by reportable segment: % of Segment Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Segment 2014 2013 2012 North America 51.3 % 51.3 % 45.5 % Europe 41.0 36.8 38.9 Russia 6.9 10.0 11.7 Other 0.8 1.9 3.9 Segment Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues by client vertical for the periods presented: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Vertical 2014 2013 2012 Banking and Financial Services 29.5 % 28.2 % 25.8 % ISVs and Technology 21.6 24.3 24.6 Travel and Consumer 21.6 21.1 22.1 Business Information and Media 12.6 13.6 14.4 Other 13.5 11.4 11.6 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1.2 1.4 1.5 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The following table shows the distribution of our clients by revenues for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Revenues Greater Than or Equal To 2014 2013 2012 $0.1 million 306 263 216 $0.5 million 181 147 114 $1 million 116 95 81 $5 million 24 22 16 $10 million 12 12 7 $20 million 6 4 4 See Note 18 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding total assets, operating results and other financial information regarding our operating segments. We typically enter into master services agreements with our clients, which provide a framework for services that is then supplemented by statements of work, which specify the particulars of each individual engagement, including the services to be performed, pricing terms and performance criteria. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global IT services providers as well as those based in CEE, India, China and other geographies. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, reputation and track record for high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to clients business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition primarily from: India-based technology outsourcing IT services providers, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions (NASDAQ:CTSH), Luxoft Holding, Inc. (NYSE:LXFT), GlobalLogic, HCL Technologies, Infosys Technologies (NASDAQ:INFY), Mindtree, Sapient (NASDAQ:SAPE), Symphony Technology Group, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro (NASDAQ:WIT); 8 Table of Contents Local CEE technology outsourcing IT services providers; Large global consulting and outsourcing firms, such as Accenture, Atos Origin, Capgemini, CSC and IBM; China-based technology outsourcing IT services providers such as Camelot Information Services, and Pactera; and In-house IT departments of our clients and potential clients. We believe that our focus on complex software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and the development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. However, we face competition from offshore IT services providers in other outsourcing destinations with low wage costs, such as India and China. Our present and potential competitors may also have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources; may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands; may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can; and may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our clients. Human Capital Our people are critical to the success of our business. Attracting and retaining employees is a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and meet our clients needs. At December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , we employed 14,109 , 11,056 and 10,043 professionals, respectively. Of these employees, approximately 86.0% were located in the CIS and CEE, 5.5% were located in Western Europe (excluding Hungary), 6.3% were located in North America and 2.1% were located in Asia at December 31, 2014 . We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees and we have not experienced any labor disputes. Our employees have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements. Recruitment and Retention We have dedicated full-time employees that oversee all aspects of our human capital management process. Through our proprietary internal tools, we effectively plan our short-term and long-term recruitment needs and deploy the necessary personnel and processes to optimize utilization and to quickly satisfy the demands of our clients. We believe our company culture and reputation enhances our ability to recruit and retain highly sought-after employees, particularly in CIS and CEE. Historically, we have developed our base of IT professionals by hiring highly-qualified, experienced IT professionals from the CIS and CEE region and by recruiting students from leading universities there. The quality and academic prestige of the CIS and CEE educational system is renowned world-wide. We have strong relationships with the leading institutions in these geographies, such as the Belarusian State University, Belarusian State University of Informatics and Radioelectronics, the Saint Petersburg State University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics, the Moscow State University, the Moscow Institute of Physics & Technology, the Moscow State University of Instrument Engineering and Computer Sciences and the National Technical University of Ukraine. The participants from these universities are frequent and consistent winners in the ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world. In the 2014 ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC,) seven out of twelve top ranked finishers were from CEE, and a top Belarusian university finished in the top 13. We have established EPAM delivery centers near many of these university campuses. Our ongoing involvement with these universities includes supporting EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses, providing teaching equipment, actively supporting curriculum development and engaging students to identify their talents and interests. Our relationships with these technical institutions provide us access to a highly-qualified talent pool of programmers, and allow us to consistently attract highly-skilled students from these institutions. We also conduct lateral hiring through a dedicated IT professional talent acquisition team whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced IT professionals within the region. To attract, retain and motivate our IT professionals, we seek to provide an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. In addition, we offer a challenging work environment, ongoing skills development initiatives and attractive career advancement and promotion opportunities. Training and Development We dedicate significant resources to the training and development of our IT professionals. We believe in the importance of supporting educational initiatives and we sponsor employees participation in internal and external training and certifications. Furthermore, we actively pursue partner engagements with technical institutions in CEE. We provide training, continuing education and career development programs for both entry-level and experienced IT professionals. Entry-level IT professionals undergo a rigorous training program that consists of approximately three to six 9 Table of Contents months of classroom training, as well as numerous hours of hands-on training through actual engagements. This comprehensive program results in employees who are highly proficient and possess deep technical expertise that enables them to immediately serve our clients needs. For our mid-level and senior IT professionals, we offer continuing education programs aimed at helping them advance in their careers. We also provide mentoring opportunities, management and soft skills training, intensive workshops and management and technical advancement programs. We are committed to systematically identifying and nurturing the development of middle and senior management through formal leadership training, evaluation, development and promotion. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment with us. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us be kept confidential. We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our clients and vendors. We customarily enter into non-disclosure agreements with our clients with respect to the use of their software systems and platforms. Our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software or systems we develop for them. Furthermore, we usually grant a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, transferable and non-revocable license to our clients to use our preexisting intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary in order to use the software or systems we developed for them. Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our clients. Long-lived Assets The table below sets forth the locations of our long-lived assets: December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Belarus $ 41,652 $ 38,697 $ 40,095 Ukraine 4,392 5,525 5,357 Hungary 2,773 2,644 3,234 Russia 2,196 3,414 2,048 United States 2,001 2,217 1,744 Other 2,120 818 657 Total $ 55,134 $ 53,315 $ 53,135 Acquisitions We have acquired a number of companies in order to expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management proficiency. On October 31, 2014, we acquired Great Fridays Limited and its subsidiaries to expand our product and design service portfolio. Great Fridays Limited, headquartered in Manchester, UK, with offices in London, San Francisco and New York, focuses on bridging the gap between business and design. The acquisition of Great Fridays added approximately 50 creative design professionals to our headcount. We expect this acquisition to further expand our product and design services capabilities. On June 6, 2014, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain specified liabilities of each of GGA Software Services, LLC, Institute of Theoretical Chemistry, Inc., and GGAs Russian affiliate (collectively, GGA). Established in 1994, GGA develops scientific informatics applications, content databases, algorithms and models, and delivers IT support, maintenance, and quality assurance services to leading healthcare and life sciences companies. The acquisition added over 300 IT professionals and over 120 scientists to our highly-experienced employee base and created a significant growth opportunity in the life sciences and healthcare industries. We also see tremendous potential in combining our traditionally recognized strengths with GGAs algorithm development, mathematical modeling, and sophisticated content 10 Table of Contents database development capabilities. The capability to develop and operationalize platforms, combining tools, models and data, has broad applications across other strategic industries on which EPAM focuses, including the Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Retail and Consumer verticals. On April 30, 2014, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Joint Technology Development Limited, a company organized under the laws of Hong Kong, including its wholly-owned subsidiaries Jointech Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of China, and Jointech Software Pte. Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore (collectively, Jointech). Jointech provides strategic technology services in the investment banking, wealth and asset management industries. The acquisition of Jointech added over 200 IT professionals to our headcount and significantly extended our footprint in South-East Asia. With this acquisition, we expect to create an integrated global platform focused on serving large multinational customers within the Banking and Financial Services vertical, and extend our global value proposition in the region. On March 5, 2014, we completed an acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain specific liabilities of U.S.-based healthcare technology consulting firm Netsoft Holdings LLC and Armenia-based Ozsoft, LLC (collectively, Netsoft). Netsoft works with leading health plans in the U.S. on their medical management and claims systems, and specializes in working with leaders in pioneering fields such as accountable care organizations, tele-medicine, healthcare analytics, personalized medicine, health information exchanges, and online self-service capabilities. The Netsoft acquisition added approximately 40 IT professionals to our headcount. In December 2012, we completed the acquisition of Empathy Lab, LLC, a U.S.-based digital strategy and multi-channel experience design firm with approximately 85 IT professionals. The acquisition has enhanced our strong capabilities in global delivery of software engineering services with Empathy Labs proven expertise in two important growth areas - development and execution of enterprise-wide eCommerce initiatives and transformation of media consumption and distribution channels. In addition to strengthening our Travel and Consumer and Business Information and Media verticals, Empathy Lab brings significant expertise in digital marketing strategy consulting and program management. In May 2012, we completed the acquisition of Thoughtcorp, a Canadian company with a 17-year history of successfully delivering high-value IT solutions and complex software applications to some of Canadas most prominent companies within the telecommunications, financial and retail sectors. With the Thoughtcorp acquisition, we have strengthened our Banking and Financial Services, and Travel and Consumer verticals, and have gained significant telecommunications expertise with a highly skilled and experienced employee base of approximately 50 IT professionals. The acquisition also expands our North American geographic footprint and complements our global delivery capabilities with expertise in areas important for us, such as Agile Development, Enterprise Mobility and Business Intelligence. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate concerning our operations, including export restrictions, U.S. economic sanctions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at http://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this annual report. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, http://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov . Our press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on our website. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report. 11 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, are discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business over the past several years. Our revenues grew from $221.8 million in 2010 to $730.0 million in 2014 as a result of organic growth and growth through strategic acquisitions. As of December 31, 2014 , we had 11,824 IT professionals, as compared to 5,344 IT professionals as of December 31, 2010. We have also grown our support function headcount, including finance, legal and other areas. Our rapid growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled IT professionals and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high-quality and process execution standards and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industries and locations; maintaining effective oversight of personnel and delivery centers; preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; coordinating effectively across geographies and business units to execute our strategic plan; and developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems. Moreover, we intend to continue our expansion for the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. As we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological, operational, compliance and administrative risks and challenges, and we may not be able to mitigate these risks and challenges to successfully grow those services or markets. As a result of these problems associated with expansion, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to attract, train and retain IT professionals with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new IT professionals successfully could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to our clients. Our success depends largely on the contributions of our IT professionals. To maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business, we must attract, train and retain skilled IT professionals, including experienced management IT professionals. Competition for IT professionals in the markets in which we operate can be intense and, accordingly, we may not be able to retain or hire all of the IT professionals necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs. If we are unable to attract and retain the highly-skilled IT professionals we need, we may have to forgo projects for lack of resources or be unable to staff projects optimally. The total attrition rates among our IT professionals who have worked for us for at least six months were 11.8% , 13.1% and 10.7% for 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We may encounter higher attrition rates in the future. Any reductions in headcount for economic or business reasons, however temporary, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire IT professionals to meet our business requirements. A significant increase in the attrition rate among IT professionals with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. Increases in wages for our IT professionals and other compensation expense could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wage costs for IT professionals in CIS, CEE and APAC, and certain other geographies in which we operate are lower than comparable wage costs in more developed countries. However, wage costs in the service industry in these countries may 12 Table of Contents increase at a faster rate than in the past, which ultimately may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our IT professionals as well as the prices we can charge for our services. Increases in wage costs may reduce our profitability. Additionally, we have granted certain equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and entered into certain other stock-based compensation arrangements in the past, as a result of which we have recorded $24.6 million, $13.2 million and $6.8 million as stock-based compensation expenses for the years ended December 31, 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) prescribe how we account for stock-based compensation, which could adversely or negatively impact our results of operations or the price of our common stock. GAAP requires us to recognize stock-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plan. However, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the number of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The issuance of equity-based compensation would also result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain new senior executives and key personnel in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted. If any of our senior executives or key personnel, such as business development managers, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key IT professionals and staff members to them. Additionally, there could be unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by such personnel. If any dispute arises between our senior executives or key personnel and us, any non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure agreements we have with our senior executives or key personnel might not provide effective protection to us, especially in CIS and CEE countries where some of our senior executives and key employees reside, in light of uncertainties with legal systems in CIS and CEE countries. Our subcontracting practices may expose us to technical uncertainties, potential liabilities and reputational harm. In order to meet our personnel needs, increase workforce flexibility, and improve pricing competitiveness, we use subcontractors and freelancers primarily to perform short-term assignments in certain specialty areas or on other projects where it is impractical to use our employees, where we need to supplement our resources, or for other purposes as needed. Although we try to source competent and credible third parties as our subcontractors, they may not be able to deliver the level of service that our clients expect us to deliver. Furthermore, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our subcontractors, but we cannot guarantee that they will not breach the confidentiality of our clients or us and misappropriate our or our clients proprietary information and technology in the course of providing service. We, as the party to the contract with the client, are directly responsible for the losses our subcontractors cause our clients. Under the subcontracting agreements we enter into, our subcontractors generally promise to indemnify us for damages caused by their breach, but we may be unable to collect under these agreements. Moreover, their breaches may damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing business and adversely affect our ability to acquire new business in the future. Adverse or uncertain economic, political and social conditions may significantly and adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We are a global company with substantial international operations. Our revenues from clients outside North America represented 48.5% , 47.8% and 50.8% of our revenues excluding reimbursable expenses for 2014 , 2013 and 2012 . Deterioration of social, political, labor or economic conditions in a specific country or region, and our failure to successfully anticipate changing conditions in these markets, could challenge our ability to conduct operations in those countries or regions or increase our operating costs. In addition, the majority of our employees, along with our development and delivery centers, are located in the CIS and CEE. 13 Table of Contents Risks inherent in conducting international operations include: foreign exchange fluctuations; application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export; difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and/or contractual rights; complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; tariffs, quotas and other trade protection measures; competition from companies with more experience in a particular country or with international operations; potential difficulties integrating new facilities and new employees into our operations and culture; potential difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overall foreign policy and variability of foreign economic conditions. The IT services industry is particularly sensitive to the economic environment and the industry tends to decline during general economic downturns. Given our significant revenues from North America and Europe, if those economies further weaken or slow, pricing for our services may be depressed and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. War, terrorism, other acts of violence or natural or manmade disasters may affect the markets in which we operate, our clients, and our service delivery. Our business may be negatively affected by instability, disruption or destruction in a geographic region in which we operate, regardless of cause, including war, terrorism, riot, civil insurrection or social unrest; and natural or manmade disasters, including famine, flood, fire, earthquake, storm or disease. Such events may cause clients to delay their decisions on spending for IT services and give rise to sudden significant changes in regional and global economic conditions and cycles. These events also pose significant risks to our people and to physical facilities and operations around the world, whether the facilities are ours or those of our clients, which could materially adversely affect our financial results. By disrupting communications and travel, giving rise to travel restrictions, and increasing the difficulty of obtaining and retaining highly-skilled and qualified IT professionals, these events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver services to some or all of our clients. Travel restrictions could cause us to incur additional unexpected labor costs and expenses or could restrain our ability to retain the skilled IT professionals we need for our operations. In addition, any extended disruptions of electricity, other public utilities or network services at our facilities, as well as system failures at, or security breaches in, our facilities or systems, could also adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. Emerging markets are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant legal, economic, tax and political risks. We have significant operations in CIS and CEE countries, and beginning in 2014 in Asia, which are generally considered to be emerging markets. Investors in emerging markets should be aware that these markets are vulnerable to market downturns and economic slowdowns elsewhere in the world and are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including complying with foreign laws and regulations and the potential imposition of trade or foreign exchange restrictions or sanctions, tax increases, fluctuations in exchange rates, inflation and unstable political and military situations, and labor issues. For example, the economies of Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Hungary and other CIS and CEE countries where we operate have experienced periods of considerable instability and have been subject to abrupt downturns. Moreover, these markets have less established legal systems, which can be characterized by gaps in regulatory structures, selective enforcement of laws, and limited judicial and administrative guidance on legislation, among other limitations. As has happened in the past, financial problems or an increase in the perceived risks associated with investing in emerging economies could dampen foreign investment in these markets and materially adversely affect their economies. Such economic instability, and any future deterioration in the international economic situation could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations may be adversely affected by ongoing developments in the Ukraine. Escalating military activities in Ukraine and on its eastern border have combined with Ukraines weak economic conditions to create uncertainty in Ukraine, Russia and other markets. The actions in Ukraine have prompted condemnation from the international community and combined with the continuing political and economic uncertainties in Ukraine have had an adverse effect on the Ukrainian and Russian economies. In April 2014, the United States Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) added certain individuals and entities to its list of Specially Designated Nationals. In July and September 2014, OFAC imposed limited, specific sanctions on certain Russian entities by listing them on the Sectoral Sanctions Identification 14 Table of Contents List (SSI List); the SSI List includes entities in the energy, defense and financial sectors. The EU imposed similar sanctions in July 2014, and separate sanctions were imposed by countries including Canada, Japan and Switzerland. Resolution of Ukraines political and economic conditions may not occur for some time and the disputes in Ukraine could devolve into increased violence or economic distress. We have delivery centers in the Ukraine employing approximately 2,956 IT professionals, none of which are located in Crimea. We also have delivery centers in Russia, employing approximately 1,714 IT professionals located in various cities including Moscow and St. Petersburg. To date we have not experienced any interruption in our office infrastructure, utility supply or Internet connectivity. All EPAM offices remain open and fully functional, including those we use in the Ukraine and Russia to support our clients. We continue to monitor the situation closely. Our contingency plans include relocating work or personnel to other locations and adding new locations, as appropriate. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the situation, as the political and civil unrest and reported military activities are fluid and beyond our control. Prolonged unrest, military activities, or broad-based sanctions, should they be implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a concentrated client base, and any loss of business from these clients could materially reduce our revenues. Our ability to maintain close relationships with our major clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. However, the volume of work performed for any specific client is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we generally are not our clients exclusive IT services provider and we do not have long-term commitments from any clients to purchase our services. The IT services we provide to our clients, and the revenues and net income from those services, may decline or vary based on the type and quantity of services we provide, wage inflation and other pricing considerations. Furthermore, our reliance on any individual client for a significant portion of our revenues may give that client a certain degree of pricing leverage against us when negotiating contracts and terms of service. The loss of any of our major clients, or a significant decrease in the volume of work they outsource to us or the price at which we sell our services to them, could materially adversely affect our revenues and thus our results of operations. We do not have long-term commitments from our clients, and our clients may terminate contracts before completion or choose not to renew contracts. Ability of our clients to terminate agreements makes our future revenues uncertain, as our clients are generally not obligated for any long-term commitments to us. Although a substantial majority of our revenues are generated from clients who also contributed to our revenues during the prior year, our engagements with our clients are typically for projects that are singular in nature. In addition, our clients can terminate many of our master services agreements and work orders with or without cause. Therefore, we must seek to obtain new engagements when our current engagements end. Our failure to perform or observe any contractual obligations could also result in termination or non-renewal of a contract, as could a change of control of our company. There are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control, which might lead them to terminate a contract or project with us, including a client's: financial difficulties; corporate restructuring, or mergers and acquisitions activity; change in strategic priorities, resulting in elimination of the impetus for the project or a reduced level of technology spending; change in outsourcing strategy resulting in moving more work to the clients in-house technology departments or to our competitors; and replacement of existing software with packaged software supported by licensors. Termination or non-renewal of a customer contract could cause us to experience a higher than expected number of unassigned employees and an increase in our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, until we are able to reduce or reallocate our headcount. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Our revenues are highly dependent on a limited number of industries, and any decrease in demand for outsourced services in these industries could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of our clients is concentrated in four specific industry verticals: Banking and Financial Services; ISVs and Technology; Business Information and Media; and Travel and Consumer. Our business growth largely depends on 15 Table of Contents continued demand for our services from clients in these four industry verticals and other industries that we may target in the future, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource IT services. A downturn in any of our targeted industries, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource IT services in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations that restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a worsening of economic conditions in the financial services industry, or significant consolidation in any of these industries may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Other developments in the industries in which we operate may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services, and we may not be able to successfully anticipate and prepare for any such changes. Decreased demand for our services, or increased pricing pressure on us from our clients in these key industries could adversely affect our results of operations. If our pricing structures are based on inaccurate expectations and assumptions regarding the cost and complexity of performing our work, or if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our services, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate pricing terms with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions. We face a number of risks when pricing our contracts. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects, the marketplace and global economic conditions (including foreign exchange volatility), which may be based on limited data and could be inaccurate. Many of our projects entail the coordination of operations and personnel in multiple locations with different skill sets and competencies. Our pricing and cost estimates for the work that we perform sometimes include anticipated long-term cost savings from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. There is a risk that we will underprice our projects, particularly with fixed-price contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings, or unexpected risks we encounter in connection with the performance of this work, including those caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. Moreover, if we are not able to pass on to our clients increases in compensation cost (whether driven by competition for talent or ordinary-course pay increases) or charge premium prices when justified by market demand or the type of service, our profitability may suffer. In addition, a number of our contracts contain pricing terms that condition a portion of the payment of fees by the client on our ability to meet defined performance goals, service levels and completion schedules set forth in the contracts. Our failure to meet such performance goals, service levels or completion schedules or our failure to meet client expectations in such contracts may result in less profitable or unprofitable engagements. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our resource utilization levels and productivity levels. Our profitability is significantly impacted by our utilization levels of fixed-cost resources, including human resources as well as other resources such as computers and office space, and our ability to increase our productivity levels. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent years, which has resulted in a significant increase in our headcount and fixed overhead costs. Some of our IT professionals are specially trained to work for specific clients or on specific projects and some of our offshore development centers are dedicated to specific clients or specific projects. Our ability to manage our utilization levels depends significantly on our ability to hire and train high-performing IT professionals and to staff projects appropriately and on the general economy and its effect on our clients and their business decisions regarding the use of our services. If we experience a slowdown or stoppage of work for any client or on any project for which we have dedicated IT professionals or facilities, we may not be able to efficiently reallocate these IT professionals and facilities to other clients and projects to keep their utilization and productivity levels high. If we are not able to maintain optimal resource utilization levels without corresponding cost reductions or price increases, our profitability will suffer. If we are not successful in managing increasingly large and complex projects, we may not achieve our financial goals and our results of operations could be adversely affected. To successfully perform larger and more complex projects, we need to establish and maintain effective, close relationships with our clients, continue high levels of client satisfaction and develop a thorough understanding of our clients operations. In addition, we may face a number of challenges managing larger and more complex projects, including: maintaining high-quality control and process execution standards; maintaining planned resource utilization rates on a consistent basis and using an efficient mix of onsite and offshore staffing; 16 Table of Contents maintaining productivity levels and implementing necessary process improvements; and controlling costs. Our ability to successfully manage large and complex projects depends significantly on the skills of our management personnel and IT professionals, some of whom do not have experience managing large-scale or complex projects. In addition, large and complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays may make it difficult to plan our project resource requirements. If we fail to successfully obtain engagements for large and complex projects, we may not achieve our revenue growth and other financial goals. Even if we are successful in obtaining such engagements, a failure by us to effectively manage these large and complex projects could damage our reputation, cause us to lose business, impact our margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We face risks associated with having a long selling and implementation cycle for our services that require us to make significant resource commitments prior to realizing revenues for those services. We have a long selling cycle for our IT services, which requires significant investment of human resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them on the value of our services and our ability to meet their requirements. Therefore, our selling cycle is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other IT services providers or in-house resources) and the timing of our clients budget cycles and approval processes. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large projects, it would negatively affect the timing of our revenues and hinder our revenue growth. For certain clients, we may begin work and incur costs prior to executing a contract. A delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement, or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular quarter, could reduce our revenues in that quarter. Implementing our services also involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays associated with technology, thereby further delaying the implementation process. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to whom we have devoted significant time and resources. Any significant failure to generate revenues or delays in recognizing revenues after incurring costs related to our sales or services process could materially adversely affect our business. If we are unable to collect our receivables from, or bill our unbilled services to, our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Weak macroeconomic conditions and related turmoil in the global financial system could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency, or bankruptcy for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, in the event of delays in payment from our governmental and quasi-governmental clients, we may have difficulty collecting on receivables owed. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We face intense competition for clients and opportunities from onshore and offshore IT services companies, and increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could materially adversely affect our business. The market for IT services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are reputation and track record, industry expertise, breadth and depth of service offerings, quality of the services offered, language, marketing and selling skills, scalability of infrastructure, ability to address clients timing requirements and price. We face competition from offshore IT services providers in other outsourcing destinations with low wage costs such as India and China, as well as competition from large, global consulting and outsourcing firms and in-house IT departments of large corporations. Clients tend to engage multiple IT services providers instead of using an exclusive IT services provider, 17 Table of Contents which could reduce our revenues to the extent that clients obtain services from other competing IT services providers. Clients may prefer IT services providers that have more locations or that are based in countries more cost-competitive or more stable than some CIS and CEE countries. Current or prospective clients may elect to perform certain services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring services from onshore to offshore IT services providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore IT services provider. This shift away from offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from within the countries in which our clients operate. Some of our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources than EPAM. Client buying patterns can change if clients become more price sensitive and accepting of low-cost suppliers with less emphasis on quality. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully, pricing pressures or loss of market share could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to generate and retain business depends on our reputation in the marketplace. Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Since many of our specific client engagements involve unique services and solutions, our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients evaluation of whether to engage our service, and our clients perception of our ability to add value through our services is critical to the profitability of our engagements. We believe the EPAM brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to damage by actions or statements made by current or former clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about our company, even if based on false rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. In particular, damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the EPAM brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us. If we are unable to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, methodologies and evolving industry standards we may lose clients and our business could be materially adversely affected. Rapidly changing technologies, methodologies and evolving industry standards are inherent in the market for our services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate developments in IT services, enhance our existing services and to develop and introduce new services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our client solutions is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies and methodologies. Our ability to keep pace with changes in technology, methodology and business is subject to a number of risks, including that: we may find it difficult or costly to update our services, applications, tools and software and to develop new services quickly enough to meet our clients needs; we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, methodologies, regulatory and other developments in the industries where our clients operate; and we may find it difficult to maintain a high level of quality in implementing new technologies and methodologies. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely manner, or if we do respond, the services, technologies or methodologies we develop or implement may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, services, technologies or methodologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to enhance our existing services and to develop and introduce new services to promptly address the needs of our clients could cause us to lose clients and materially adversely affect our business. Undetected software design defects, errors or failures may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our services or in liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business. 18 Table of Contents Our software development solutions involve a high degree of technological complexity, have unique specifications and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or defects may result in the loss of current clients and loss of, or delay in, revenues, loss of market share, loss of client data, a failure to attract new clients or achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources and increased support or service costs. We cannot provide assurance that, despite testing by our clients and us, errors will not be found in new software product development solutions, which could result in litigation, other claims for damages against us, as well as reputational harm and thus could materially adversely affect our business. Security breaches and other disruptions to network security could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of business, we have access to, collect, store, process and transmit sensitive or confidential data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our clients, and personally identifiable information of our clients and employees, in our data centers and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to human error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, misappropriated, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information and regulatory penalties. Such a breach or disruption could also disrupt our operations and the services we provide to customers, damage our reputation, and cause a loss of confidence in our products and services, as well as require us to expend significant resources to protect against further breaches and to rectify problems caused by such a breach or disruption. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, revenues and competitive position. A significant failure in our telecommunications or IT infrastructure or systems could harm our service model, which could result in a reduction of our revenue and otherwise disrupt our business. Part of our service model is to maintain active voice and data communications, financial control, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems between our clients offices, our delivery centers and our client management locations (including our headquarters in Newtown, PA). Moreover, many of our key systems for corporate operations are internally-developed applications. Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these internet, IT or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, demands placed on internet infrastructure by growing numbers of users and time spent online or increased bandwidth requirements or other events beyond our control. Internally-developed systems may not possess the same level of control, security or support that traditional third-party systems and applications do. Loss of all or part of the infrastructure or systems for a period of time could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time which, in turn, could lead to a reduction of our revenue or otherwise materially adversely affect our business and business reputation. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by the disclosure of confidential information, system failures or errors. If any person, including any of our employees, misappropriates sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Some of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for certain occurrences, including breaches of confidentiality and infringement indemnity. Furthermore, breaches of confidentiality may entitle the aggrieved party to equitable remedies, including injunctive relief. Any such breach or misappropriation resulting in unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client information, or a violation of intellectual property rights, whether through employee misconduct, breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, may subject us to liabilities, damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. If we cause disruptions to our clients businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, which could cause us to lose clients, have a negative effect on our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. If our IT professionals make errors in the course of delivering services to our clients or fail to consistently meet service requirements of a client, these errors or failures could disrupt the clients business, which could result in a reduction in our revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a contractual requirement could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. Any failure in a clients system or breach of security relating to the services we provide to the client could damage our reputation or result in a claim for substantial 19 Table of Contents damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a client, or poor execution of such services, could result in a client terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if such assertions against us are unsuccessful, we may incur reputational harm and substantial legal fees. We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have made and continue to make significant contractual commitments related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our delivery centers, such as in Minsk, Belarus. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions will likely increase our fixed costs and if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability may be reduced. If we fail to integrate or manage acquired companies efficiently, or if the acquired companies are difficult to integrate, divert management resources or do not perform to our expectations, we may not be able to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisitions, and our overall profitability and growth plans could be materially adversely affected. We have from time to time expanded our service capabilities and gained new clients through strategic acquisitions. Our ability to successfully integrate acquired assets or an acquired entity and realize the benefits of an acquisition requires, among other things, successful integration of technologies, operations and personnel in a timely and efficient manner. Challenges we face in the acquisition and integration process include: diverting significant management attention and financial resources from our other operations and disrupting our ongoing business; unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities and integration costs; incurring liabilities from the acquired businesses for infringement of third-party intellectual property rights or other claims for which we may not be successful in seeking indemnification; incurring debt, amortization expenses related to intangible assets, large and immediate write-offs, assuming unforeseen or undisclosed liabilities, or issuing common stock that would dilute our existing stockholders ownership; generating sufficient revenues and net income to offset acquisition costs; potential loss of, or harm to, employee or client relationships; properly structuring our acquisition consideration and any related post-acquisition earn-outs and successfully monitoring any earn-out calculations and payments; failing to realize the potential cost savings or other financial benefits and/or the strategic benefits of the acquisition; retaining key senior management and other personnel of the acquired operations; potential incompatibility of solutions, services and technology or corporate cultures; consolidating and rationalizing corporate, information technology and administrative infrastructures; integrating and documenting processes and controls; entry into unfamiliar markets; and increased complexity from potentially operating additional geographically dispersed sites, particularly if we acquire a company or business with facilities or operations outside of the countries in which we currently have operations. The primary value of many potential acquisition targets in the IT services industry lies in their skilled IT professionals and established client relationships. Transitioning these types of assets to our business can be particularly difficult due to different corporate cultures and values, geographic distance and other intangible factors. For example, some newly acquired employees may decide not to work with us or to leave shortly after their move to our company and some acquired clients may decide to discontinue their commercial relationships with us. These challenges could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses, including causing us to incur significant one-time expenses and write-offs, and make it more difficult and complex for our management to effectively manage our operations. If we are not able to successfully integrate an acquired entity and its operations and to realize the benefits envisioned for such acquisition, our overall growth and profitability plans may be adversely affected. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by several factors. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in multiple jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by several factors, including changes in the amount of income taxed by or allocated to the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations of 20 Table of Contents such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits or examinations and any related interest or penalties. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in other countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arms-length terms. The determination of our provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by authorities in various jurisdictions. If a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and proposes an adjustment, including as a result of a determination that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, such an adjustment could have a negative impact on our business. Our earnings could be adversely affected if we change our intent not to repatriate earnings in the CIS and CEE or such earnings become subject to U.S. tax on a current basis. We do not accrue incremental U.S. taxes on all CIS and CEE earnings as these earnings (as well as other foreign earnings for all periods) are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings. If we change our intent and repatriate such earnings, we will have to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated with such earnings and pay taxes at a substantially higher rate than our effective income tax rate in 2014. These increased taxes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the loss of certain tax benefits provided by the governments of Belarus, Hungary and Russia to companies in our industry. Our subsidiary in Belarus is a member of the Belarus Hi-Tech Park, in which member technology companies are 100% exempt from Belarusian income tax (which as of the date of this annual report was 18%) and from the value added tax, for a period of 15 consecutive years effective July 1, 2006 and levied at a reduced rate on a variety of taxes. In addition, our subsidiary in Hungary benefited from a tax credit of 10% of qualified salaries, taken over a four-year period, for up to 70% of the total tax due for that period. We have been able to take the full 70% credit for 2007 to 2012. The Hungarian tax authorities repealed the tax credit beginning with 2012. Credits earned in years prior to 2012, however, will be allowed through 2014. We have fully utilized the 70% limit in 2014. Our subsidiary in Russia benefits from a substantially reduced rate on social contributions and an exemption on value added tax in certain circumstances, which is a benefit to qualified IT companies in Russia. If the tax holiday relating to our Belarusian subsidiary, the tax incentives relating to our Hungarian subsidiary or the lower tax rates and social contributions relating to our Russian subsidiary are changed, terminated, not extended or comparable new tax incentives are not introduced, we expect that our effective income tax rate and/or our operating expenses would increase significantly, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -Provision for Income Taxes. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting principles could have a significant impact on our financial position and results of operations U.S. GAAP, under which we prepare our consolidated financial statements, is subject to interpretation by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow GAAP under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to, principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of our IT professionals or the exempt status of our employees is successfully challenged. 21 Table of Contents Some of our IT professionals are retained as independent contractors. Although we believe that we have properly classified these individuals as independent contractors, there is nevertheless a risk that the IRS or another federal, state, provincial or foreign authority will take a different view. Furthermore, the tests governing the determination of whether an individual is considered to be an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact sensitive and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent contractors are subject to change or interpretation by various authorities. If a federal, state, provincial or foreign authority or court enacts legislation or adopts regulations that change the manner in which employees and independent contractors are classified or makes any adverse determination with respect to some or all of our independent contractors, we could incur significant costs under such laws and regulations, including for prior periods, in respect of tax withholding, social security taxes or payments, workers compensation and unemployment contributions, and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also a risk that we may be subject to significant monetary liabilities arising from fines or judgments as a result of any such actual or alleged non-compliance with federal, state, provincial or foreign tax laws. Further, if it were determined that any of our independent contractors should be treated as employees, we could possibly incur additional liabilities under our applicable employee benefit plans. In addition, we have classified nearly all of our U.S. employees as exempt under the Federal Labor Standards Act, or the FLSA. If it were determined that any of our U.S. employees should be classified as non-exempt under the FLSA, we may incur costs and liabilities for back wages, unpaid overtime, fines or penalties and/or be subject to employee litigation. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us against losses. Although we maintain some insurance coverage, including professional liability insurance, property insurance coverage for certain of our facilities and equipment and business interruption insurance coverage for certain of our operations, we do not insure for all risks in our operations. If any claims for injury are brought against us, or if we experience any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster, we might incur substantial costs and diversion of resources. Most of the agreements we have entered into with our clients require us to purchase and maintain specified insurance coverage during the terms of the agreements, including commercial general insurance or public liability insurance, umbrella insurance, product liability insurance, and workers compensation insurance. Some of these types of insurance are not available on reasonable terms or at all in CIS and CEE countries. Although to date no client has brought any claims against us for such failure, our clients have the right to terminate these agreements as a result of such failure. The banking and financial systems in the CIS remain less developed than those in some more developed markets, and a banking crisis could place liquidity constraints on our business and materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Banking and other financial systems in the CIS are less developed and regulated than in some more developed markets, and legislation relating to banks and bank accounts is subject to varying interpretations and inconsistent application. Banks in the CIS generally do not meet the banking standards of more developed markets, and the transparency of the banking sector lags behind international standards. Furthermore, in Russia, Belarus and other CIS countries, bank deposits made by corporate entities generally are not insured. As a result, the banking sector remains subject to periodic instability. Another banking crisis, or the bankruptcy or insolvency of banks through which we receive or with which we hold funds, particularly in Belarus, may result in the loss of our deposits or adversely affect our ability to complete banking transactions in the CIS, which could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have significant international operations, and we earn our revenues and incur our expenses in multiple currencies. Doing business in different foreign currencies exposes us to foreign currency risks, including risks related to revenues and receivables, compensation of our personnel, purchases and capital expenditures. The majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, British pounds, Russian rubles and euros, and the majority of our expenses, particularly salaries of IT professionals, are denominated in U.S. dollars but payable in Belarusian rubles or in other local currencies at the exchange rate in effect at the time. To the extent that we increase our business and revenues, which are denominated in Belarusian rubles, Ukrainian hryvnia, Hungarian forints or other local currencies, we will also increase our receivables denominated in those currencies and therefore increase our exposure to fluctuations in their exchange rates against the U.S. dollar, our reporting currency. Also, economic instability in Russia and other countries can affect the local currencys exchange rates, such as the recent plunge in the value of the Russian ruble. Any capital expenditures, such as for computer equipment, which are payable in the local currency of the countries in which we operate but are imported to such countries, and any deposits we hold in local currencies, can be materially affected by depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar and the effect of such depreciation on the local 22 Table of Contents economy. Due to the increasing size of our international operations, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could materially impact our results. See