Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable law. GEOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES We use the terms CIS, CEE and APAC to describe a portion of our geographic operations and assets. CIS, which stands for the Commonwealth of Independent States, is comprised of constituents of the former U.S.S.R., including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. CEE, which stands for Central and Eastern Europe, includes Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovakia and Slovenia. APAC, which stands for Asia Pacific, includes all of Asia (including India) and Australia. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Company Background We are a leading global provider of software product development and digital platform engineering services to clients located around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. With a strong focus on innovative and scalable software solutions and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities, we leverage industry standard and custom developed technology, tools and platforms to deliver results for the most complex business challenges. We focus on building long-term partnerships with clients in industries such as financial services, travel and consumer, software and hi-tech, media and entertainment, life sciences and healthcare, as well as other emerging industries. Our work with global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies has allowed us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise. Our culture of innovation, technology leadership, process excellence and high-quality project delivery has helped us continue to build a strong reputation in the marketplace. Our historical core competency, software development and product engineering services created our foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have further expanded our global footprint and service offering portfolio, including our capabilities in the healthcare and financial services industries, digital strategy and design, consulting and test automation. We expect our strategic acquisitions will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our clients from a wider variety of locations. Our Services Our service offerings cover the full software product development lifecycle from digital strategy and customer experience design to enterprise application platforms implementation and program management services and from complex software development services to maintenance, support, custom application development, application testing, and infrastructure management. We meet the standards of ISAE 3402 Type 2, ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2015, and these certifications provide our clients with third-party verification of our information security, quality management and general controls practices. We also work closely with leading companies in other industries to enable our clients to better leverage technology and address the simultaneous pressures of driving value for the consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Our digital strategy and experience design practice provides strategy, design, creative and program management services for clients looking to improve their customer experience. We offer deep expertise across several domains including business-to-business and business-to-consumer e-commerce, customer/partner self-service, employee portals, online merchandising and sales, web content management, mobile solutions and billing. Our key service offerings include: Software Product Development Services We provide a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Custom Application Development Services We offer complete custom application development services to meet the requirements of businesses with sophisticated needs not adequately supported by packaged applications or by existing custom solutions. Our custom application development services leverage our experience in software product development as well as our industry expertise, prebuilt application solution frameworks and specific software product assets. Our range of services includes business and technical requirements analysis, user experience design, solution architecture creation and validation, development, component design and integration, quality assurance and testing, deployment, performance tuning, support and maintenance, legacy applications re-engineering/refactoring, porting and cross-platform migration and documentation. 2 Table of Contents Application Testing Services We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals. Our Quality Management System complies with global quality standards such as ISO 9001:2015 and we employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services. Our application testing services include: (i) software application testing, including test automation tools and frameworks; (ii) testing for enterprise IT, including test management, automation, functional and non-functional testing, as well as defect management; and (iii) consulting services focused on helping clients improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. Application Maintenance and Support We deliver application maintenance and support services through a dedicated team of IT professionals. Our clients benefit from our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. Our services include incident management, fault investigation diagnosis, work-around provision, application bug fixes, release management, application enhancements and third-party maintenance. Infrastructure Management Services We offer infrastructure management services to address clients increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures. We have significant expertise in implementing large infrastructure monitoring solutions, providing real-time notification and control from the low-level infrastructure up to and including applications. Our solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as incident notification and resolution. Enterprise Information Management We build enterprise technologies that offer smarter analytics, improve business processes, and result in greater operational excellence. Our global delivery framework and industry-specific blueprints allow us to meet the needs of our clients enterprises and build business application platforms and their components in areas including customer relationship management, sales automation, enterprise resource planning, enterprise content management, business intelligence and cloud management. We deploy the platforms and services that enable data-driven business decisions by turning data into intelligence. Our agile engineering expertise allows us to offer services around business process management, enterprise content management and more, including requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration, as well as support and maintenance. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our clients chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality necessary to address the needs of the clients users and customers. Our Vertical Markets Strong vertical-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our clients, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. We have categorized our customers into five main industry verticals and a group of emerging verticals. Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global investment banks, firms, and brokerages, commercial and retail banks, credit card companies, wealth management institutions, depositories, corporate treasuries, pension funds, and market data providers. We assist these clients with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, customer-based needs and risk management. Our financial services domain experts have been recognized with industry awards for engineering and deploying unique applications and business solutions that facilitate growth, competitiveness, and customer loyalty while driving cost efficiency for global financial institutions. Travel and Consumer. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. Some of the worlds leading airlines, hotel providers and travel agencies rely on our knowledge in creating high-quality tools for operating and managing their business. Within this vertical, we also serve global, regional and local retailers, online retail brands, consumer goods manufacturers and distributors and online marketplaces. We deliver a wide range of services to retail and eCommerce clients from complex system modernizations to leading edge innovations in multi-channel sales and distribution. We have transformed organizations to use technology to expand and revolutionize their business models. Our services directly impact the consumer experience of our clients brands, and allow our clients to reach more consumers. 3 Table of Contents Software and Hi-Tech. Our core competency is in providing complex software product development services to meet software and technology companies constant need for innovation and agility. We help some of the most prominent software brands in the world build, what we believe to be, the best software. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech R&D, software engineering and integration, we have developed proprietary internal processes, methodologies and IT infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving customers in the Hi-Tech and Software Product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Media and Entertainment. We help our media and entertainment clients build products and solutions for all modern platforms including web media streaming and mobile information delivery. Our solutions help clients develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve varied clients in this vertical including search engine providers, entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors, knowledge management organizations and advertising networks. Life Sciences and Healthcare . We help our customers in the Healthcare industry respond to changing regulatory environments and improve the quality of care while managing the cost of care. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, development and managed services to clients ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. In the Life Sciences category, we partner with global pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. Our personnel in Life Sciences leverage their vast technology expertise to offer deep scientific and mathematical knowledge to broad-based initiatives. Our Life Sciences solutions enable clients to speed research and accelerate time-to-market while improving collaboration, knowledge management and operational excellence. We also serve the diverse technology needs of clients in the energy, telecommunications, automotive and manufacturing industries, as well as government clients. These clients are included in our Emerging verticals which are further discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this annual report. Clients Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe, CIS and APAC. We maintain a geographically diverse client base with 58.0% of our 2017 revenues derived from clients located in North America, 35.2% from clients in Europe, 4.7% from clients in the CIS and 2.1% from our clients in APAC. Our sustained growth and increased capabilities are furthered by both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 94.9% and 85.7% of our revenues in 2017 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. We have long-standing relationships with many of our top customers, however, we remain committed to diversifying our client base and we expect client concentration from our top clients to continue to decrease over the long-term. The following table shows revenues from the top five and ten customers in the respective year as a percentage of revenues for that year: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Top five clients 24.0 % 28.4 % 32.8 % Top ten clients 33.9 % 38.4 % 44.1 % The following table shows the distribution of our clients by revenues for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Revenues Greater Than or Equal To 2017 2016 2015 $0.1 million 460 431 365 $0.5 million 316 266 211 $1 million 232 182 136 $5 million 63 45 33 $10 million 26 19 14 $20 million 10 7 7 4 Table of Contents See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this annual report for additional information related to revenue. See Note 17 Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding long-lived assets and client revenue by geographic location as well as financial information related to our reportable segments. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts support our business strategy to increase revenues from new and existing clients through our senior management, sales and business development staff, account managers, and technical specialists. We maintain a dedicated sales force and a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events and sponsorship of programming competitions. Given our focus on providing technical solutions to our clients complex challenges, our IT professionals play an integral role in engaging with clients on potential business opportunities. Our account managers maintain direct client relationships and are tasked with identifying new business opportunities and responding to requests-for-proposals (RFPs). Account managers typically engage technical and other specialists when pursuing opportunities. This sales model has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing client base. In addition to effective client management, we believe that our reputation as a premium provider of software engineering solutions and information technology services drives additional business from inbound requests, referrals and RFPs. We enjoy published recognition from third-party industry observers, such as Forrester Research, Forbes Research, Everest Group, Zinnov, CIO Magazine, Information Week, and Software Magazine. Our Delivery Model We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our clients diverse needs and to provide a compelling value proposition. We serve clients through on-site, off-site and offshore locations across the world in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Poland, India, China, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Bulgaria, Armenia, Czech Republic, Slovakia, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Netherlands, the United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Spain, Ireland and Australia. Our delivery centers are located strategically to offer a strong, diversified and cost-effective delivery platform to serve clients across North America, Europe and APAC. Our largest delivery centers are located in Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. We continuously grow our delivery platform both organically and through acquired delivery centers and client management locations. Our revenue generating personnel numbered 22,998 as of December 31, 2017 . As of December 31, 2017 we had 7,372 IT professionals located in Belarus. The majority of these IT professionals are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is well-positioned to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base and established educational infrastructure. Furthermore, the IT industry in Belarus has been strongly supported by its government, which has taken steps to encourage investment in the IT sector through long-term tax incentives. Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government support of the IT industry. As of December 31, 2017 , we had 4,818 IT professionals in Ukraine and 3,802 IT professionals in Russia. Our delivery model has not been materially affected by the political and economic uncertainty in Russia or Ukraine to date. Our other significant locations with IT professionals are Hungary with 1,460 , the United States with 1,316 , Poland with 1,167 , India with 822 and China with 509 as of December 31, 2017 . Human Capital Attracting and retaining employees is a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and meet our clients needs. We have dedicated full-time employees that oversee all aspects of our human capital management process including a professional talent acquisition team whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced IT professionals within various EPAM locations. It is critical that we effectively plan our short-term and long-term recruitment needs and deploy the necessary personnel and processes to optimize utilization and quickly satisfy the demands of our clients. As our business grows, we also focus on hiring and retaining individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, HR and other key management positions. 5 Table of Contents At December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , we had a total of 25,962 , 22,383 and 18,354 employees, respectively. Of these employees, as of December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively, 22,998 , 19,670 and 16,078 were revenue generating IT professionals. In our competitive industry, the ability to hire and retain highly-skilled information technology professionals is critical to our success. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our clients. To attract, retain and motivate our IT professionals, we offer a challenging work environment, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement, and promotion opportunities thus providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. Historically, we developed our base of IT professionals by hiring highly-qualified, experienced IT professionals from the CIS and CEE regions and by recruiting students from the regions leading universities. The quality and academic prestige of the CIS and CEE educational systems are renowned worldwide and we have strong relationships with the leading institutions in these geographies. We have established EPAM delivery centers near many of these university campuses. Our ongoing involvement with these universities includes supporting EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses, providing teaching equipment, actively supporting curriculum development and engaging students to identify their talents and interests. Our relationships with these technical institutions provide us access to a highly-qualified talent pool. We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees and our employees have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements (other than broad industry-wide agreements as required in certain countries in Europe and Mexico) or engaged in any labor disputes. Training and Development We dedicate significant resources to the training and development of our IT professionals. We believe in the importance of supporting educational initiatives and we sponsor employees participation in internal and external training and certifications. We provide training, continuing education and career development programs for both entry-level and experienced IT professionals. Entry-level IT professionals undergo a rigorous training program that consists of approximately three to six months of classroom training, as well as numerous hours of hands-on training through actual engagements. This comprehensive program results in employees who are highly proficient and possess deep technical expertise that enables them to immediately serve our clients needs. For our mid-level and senior IT professionals, we offer continuing education programs aimed at helping them advance in their careers. We also provide mentoring opportunities, management and soft skills training, intensive workshops and management and technical advancement programs in order to support the development of middle and senior management through formal leadership training, evaluation, development and promotion. Quality and Process Management We have invested resources in developing a proprietary suite of internal applications and tools to manage all aspects of our delivery process. These applications and tools are targeted to reduce costs and security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our clients. In addition, these applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions to global clients, further strengthening our relationships with them. We are an ISAE 3402 Type 2 certified IT services provider. This certification is a widely recognized auditing standard developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and it serves as additional assurance to our clients regarding the control environment and the security of their sensitive data. Furthermore, this is an important certification for firms in data and information-intensive industries, as well as any organization that is subject to the internal controls certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our ISAE 3402 Type 2 certification, in addition to our multiple ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2015 attestations, underscores our focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls. Our proprietary ISO 9001:2015 and CMMI-certified Quality Management System has been documented, implemented and maintained to ensure the timely delivery of software development services to our clients. We have also developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our Project Management Center, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical to meeting or exceeding the service levels required by our clients. 6 Table of Contents Our Quality Management System ensures that we provide timely delivery of software development services to enhance client satisfaction by enabling: objective valuation of the performed process, work products and services against the clients process descriptions, standards and procedures; identification, documentation and timely resolution of noncompliance issues; feedback to the clients project staff and managers on the results of quality assurance activities; monitoring and improvement of the software development process to ensure adopted standards and procedures are implemented and flaws are detected and resolved in a timely manner; and execution of planned and systematic problem prevention activities. Our proprietary Project Management Center supports our software development delivery model. Our Project Management Center is effective in reducing risks and providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages based on the following features: multi-site, multi-project capabilities; activity-based software development lifecycle, which fully tracks the software development activities through the project documentation; project, role-based access control, which can be available to us, clients and third parties; fully configurable workflow engine with built-in notification and messaging; extensive reporting capabilities and tracking of key performance indicators; and integration with Microsoft Project and Outlook. The transparency and visibility into software development project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents and files provided by our Project Management Center promotes collaboration and strengthens our relationships with our clients. Improved traceability enables significant time savings and cost reductions for business users and IT management during change management for the software development lifecycle. The combination of our Project Management Center with our other proprietary internal applications enhances our offering by reducing errors, increasing quality, effectiveness and oversight, and improving maintenance time. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global technology solutions providers as well as those based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as CEE, India and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, reputation and track record for high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to clients business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition primarily from Accenture, Atos Origin, Capgemini, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, Exlservice, Genpact, GlobalLogic, Globant S.A., HCL Technologies, HP Enterprise, IBM Global Services, Infosys Technologies, Luxoft Holding, Inc., Mindtree, Syntel, Inc., Perficient, Tata Consultancy Services, Virtusa Corporation, and Wipro, among others. Additionally, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. We believe that our focus on complex software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and the development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is important to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our clients. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment with us. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us remains confidential. 7 Table of Contents We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our clients. These customary agreements cover our use of the clients software systems and platforms as our clients usually own the intellectual property in the products we develop for them. Furthermore, we usually grant a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, transferable and non-revocable license to our clients to use our preexisting intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary in order to use the software or systems we developed for them. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at http://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this annual report. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, http://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov . Our press releases and most recent investor presentation are also available on our website. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those described below, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. You should carefully review the following discussion of the most significant risk factors applicable to us, which we have listed below and are not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence. Additionally, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business over the past several years, both organically and through acquisitions. Our rapid growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled IT professionals and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high-quality process execution standards and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industries and locations; maintaining effective oversight of personnel and delivery centers; coordinating effectively across geographies and business units to execute our strategic plan; and developing and improving our internal administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Moreover, we intend to continue our expansion for the foreseeable future and pursue available opportunities. As we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological, operational, compliance and administrative risks and challenges. As a result of these challenges associated with expansion, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Our failure to successfully attract, train and retain new IT professionals with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to those clients. The ability to hire and retain highly-skilled information technology professionals is critical to our success. To maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business, we must attract, train and retain skilled IT professionals, including those with management experience. Competition for IT professionals can be intense in the markets where we operate. If we are unable to hire or retain all of the IT professionals necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs, we may have to forgo projects due to lack of resources. A significant increase in the attrition rate among IT professionals with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. In addition, any reductions in headcount for economic or business reasons, however temporary, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer, and our ability to hire IT professionals to meet our business requirements may suffer. Increases in wages for our IT professionals and other compensation expense could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wage costs for IT professionals in CIS, CEE and APAC, and certain other geographies in which we operate are lower than comparable wage costs in more developed countries. However, wage costs in the service industry in these countries may increase at a faster rate than in the past, which ultimately may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our IT professionals. Wage inflation may also increase our cost of providing services and reduce our profitability. Additionally, we have granted certain equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and entered into other stock-based compensation arrangements in the past, and expect to continue this practice. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness to us of issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plan. However, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the value of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The issuance of equity-based compensation also results in additional dilution to our stockholders. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain new senior executives and key personnel in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted. If any of our senior executives or key personnel, such as business development managers, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key IT professionals and staff members to them. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our resource utilization and productivity levels. Our profitability is significantly impacted by our utilization and productivity levels of fixed-cost resources, such as our professionals as well as other resources such as computers and office space. Our ability to manage our utilization levels depends significantly on our ability to hire and train high-performing IT professionals, to plan effectively for future needs, to staff projects appropriately, and on the general economy and its effect on our clients and their business decisions regarding the use of our services. If we experience a slowdown or stoppage of work for any client or on any project for which we have dedicated IT professionals or facilities, we may not be able to reallocate these IT professionals and facilities to other clients and projects to keep their utilization and productivity levels high. If we are not able to maintain optimal resource utilization levels without corresponding cost reductions or price increases, our profitability will suffer. Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. We are a global company with substantial international operations. Our revenues from clients outside North America represented 42.0% , 42.2% and 46.4% of our revenues including reimbursable expenses and other revenues for 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The majority of our personnel, along with our development and delivery centers, are located in the CIS and CEE. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. 9 Table of Contents Risks inherent in conducting international operations include: foreign exchange fluctuations; application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export, including tariffs, quotas and other trade protection measures; difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and/or contractual rights; complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; competition from companies with more experience in a particular country or with international operations; and overall foreign policy and variability of foreign economic conditions. We earn our revenues and incur our expenses in multiple currencies, which exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, receivables, compensation, purchases and capital expenditures. Currency exchange volatility caused by political or economic instability or other factors, could materially impact our results. See