Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable law. GEOGRAPHICAL REFERENCES We use the terms CIS, CEE and APAC to describe a portion of our geographic operations and assets. CIS, which stands for the Commonwealth of Independent States, is comprised of constituents of the former U.S.S.R., including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. CEE, which stands for Central and Eastern Europe, includes Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Serbia, Montenegro, Slovakia and Slovenia. APAC, which stands for Asia Pacific, includes all of Asia (including India) and Australia. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Company Background We are a leading global provider of software product development and digital platform engineering services to clients located around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia. With a strong focus on innovative and scalable software solutions, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities, we leverage industry standard and custom developed technology, tools and platforms to deliver results for the most complex business challenges. We focus on building long-term partnerships with clients in industries such as financial services, travel and consumer, software and hi-tech, media and entertainment, life sciences and healthcare, and emerging. Our work with global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies has allowed us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise. Our culture of innovation, technology leadership, process excellence and high-quality project delivery has helped us continue to build a strong reputation in the marketplace. Our historical core competency, software development and product engineering services, created our foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have further expanded our global footprint and service offering portfolio, including our capabilities in the healthcare and financial services industries, as well as in digital strategy and design, consulting and test automation. We expect our strategic acquisitions will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our clients from a wider variety of locations. Our Services Our service offerings cover the full software product development lifecycle from digital strategy and customer experience design to enterprise application platforms implementation and program management services and from complex software development services to maintenance, support, custom application development, application testing, and infrastructure management. Our key service offerings include: Software Product Development Services We provide a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Custom Application Development Services We offer complete custom application development services to meet the requirements of businesses with sophisticated application development needs not adequately supported by packaged applications or by existing custom solutions. Our custom application development services leverage our experience in software product development as well as our industry expertise, prebuilt application solution frameworks and specific software product assets. Our range of services includes business and technical requirements analysis, user experience design, solution architecture creation and validation, development, component design and integration, quality assurance and testing, deployment, performance tuning, support and maintenance, legacy applications re-engineering/refactoring, porting and cross-platform migration and documentation. Application Testing Services We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals. Our Quality Management System complies with global quality standards such as ISO 9001:2008 and we employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services. Our application testing services include: (i) software application testing, including test automation tools and frameworks; (ii) testing for enterprise IT, including test management, automation, functional and non-functional testing, as well as defect management; and (iii) consulting services focused on helping clients improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. 2 Table of Contents Enterprise Application Platforms As a proven provider of software product development services to major ISVs, we have participated in the development of industry standard technology and business application platforms and their components in such specific areas as customer relationship management and sales automation, enterprise resource planning, enterprise content management, business intelligence, e-commerce, mobile, Software-as-a-Service and cloud deployment. Our experience in such areas allows us to offer services around Enterprise Application Platforms, which include requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration, as well as support and maintenance. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our clients chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality necessary to address the needs of the clients users and customers. Application Maintenance and Support We deliver application maintenance and support services through a dedicated team of IT professionals. Our application maintenance and support offerings meet rigorous CMMI and ISAE 3402 Type 2 requirements. Our clients benefit from our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. Our services include incident management, fault investigation diagnosis, work-around provision, application bug fixes, release management, application enhancements and third-party maintenance. Infrastructure Management Services Given the increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures, our service offerings also cover infrastructure management services. We have significant expertise in implementing large infrastructure monitoring solutions, providing real-time notification and control from the low-level infrastructure up to and including applications. Our ISAE 3402 Type 2, ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2008 certifications provide our clients with third-party verification of our information security policies. Our solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as incident notification and resolution. We also work closely with leading companies in other industries to enable our clients to better leverage technology and address simultaneous pressures of driving value for the consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Our digital strategy and experience design practice provides strategy, design, creative, and program management services for clients looking to improve their customer experience. We also offer deep expertise across several domains including business-to-business and business-to-consumer e-commerce, customer/partner self-service, employee portals, online merchandising and sales, web content management, mobile solutions and billing. Our Vertical Markets Strong vertical-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our clients, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. We have categorized our customers into five main industry verticals and a group of emerging verticals. Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global investment banks, firms, and brokerages; commercial and retail banks, credit card companies, depositories, corporate treasuries, pension funds, and market data providers. We assist these clients with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, and risk management. Our Capital Markets Competency Center facilitates knowledge exchange, education and collaboration across our organization and develops new software products, frameworks and components to further enhance our financial services solutions and services. Travel and Consumer. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. Many of the worlds leading airlines, hotel providers and travel agencies rely on our knowledge in creating the best tools for operating and managing their business. Through this vertical, we also deliver a complete range of digital commerce and marketing services to a global set of customers across traditional and online retail, manufacturing and distribution segments. 3 Table of Contents Software and Hi-Tech. Our core competency is in providing complex software product development services to meet software and technology companies constant need for innovation and agility. We help the most prominent software brands in the world build the best software. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech R&D, software engineering and integration, we have developed proprietary internal processes, methodologies and IT infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving customers in the Hi-Tech and Software Product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Media and Entertainment. We have established long-term relationships with leading media and entertainment companies which enable us to bring sustainable value creation and enhanced return-on-content for organizations within this vertical. Our solutions help clients develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve clients in a range of media sub-sectors, including entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors and advertising networks. Our Business Information Competency Center enables us to provide our clients with solutions that help them overcome challenges related to operating legacy systems, manage varied content formats, rationalize their online assets and lower their cost of delivery. In addition, we provide knowledge discovery platform services, which combines custom taxonomy development with web crawling, internal file and e-mail classification, newsletter and feed publication and content trend analysis. Life Sciences and Healthcare . We help our customers in the Life Sciences and Healthcare industry address ever changing market conditions and regulatory environments. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, build and managed services to clients ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. We work with global Life Sciences companies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. We offer a combination of deep scientific and mathematical knowledge providing global coverage for broad-based initiatives. Our solutions enable clients to speed research, discovery, and time-to-market while improving collaboration, knowledge management, and operational excellence. We also serve the diverse technology needs of clients in the energy, telecommunications, automotive, and manufacturing industries, as well the government. These industries represent our Emerging verticals. Our revenues by vertical for the periods presented are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Financial Services $ 291,845 25.2 % $ 248,526 27.2 % $ 215,425 29.5 % Travel and Consumer 259,420 22.4 215,303 23.6 157,756 21.6 Software & Hi-Tech 237,437 20.5 192,989 21.1 157,944 21.6 Media & Entertainment 174,017 15.0 120,616 13.2 91,726 12.6 Life Sciences and Healthcare 105,072 9.1 73,327 8.0 42,428 5.8 Emerging Verticals 79,820 6.7 53,856 5.9 56,338 7.7 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 12,521 1.1 9,511 1.0 8,410 1.2 Revenues $ 1,160,132 100.0 % $ 914,128 100.0 % $ 730,027 100.0 % Clients Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe, Asia and the CIS. We maintain a geographically diverse client base with 57.3% of our 2016 revenues from clients located in North America, 35.5% from clients in Europe, 4.0% from clients in the CIS and 2.1% from our clients in APAC. We typically enter into master services agreements with our clients, which provide a framework for services that is then supplemented by statements of work, which specify the particulars of each individual engagement, including the services to be performed, pricing terms and performance criteria. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 96.2% and 81.9% of our revenues in 2016 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. In addition, we have significantly grown the size of existing accounts as a majority of our top client mix remains consistent over the years. The annual revenue from our top five clients increased from $107.2 million in 2011 to $327.1 million in 2016 and the annual revenue from our top ten clients increased from $149.1 million in 2011 to $442.3 million in 2016 . 4 Table of Contents During 2016 , 2015 and 2014 one customer, UBS AG , accounted for over 10% of our revenues. The following table presents the percentage of our revenues by client location: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Client location 2016 2015 2014 North America 57.3 % 53.1 % 50.4 % Europe 35.5 38.6 39.0 CIS 4.0 4.7 7.6 APAC 2.1 2.6 1.8 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1.1 1.0 1.2 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Revenues by client location above differ from our segment information. Our operations consist of four reportable segments: North America, Europe, Russia and Other. This determination is based on the unique business practices and market specifics of each region and that each region engages in business activities from which it earns revenues and incurs expenses. Our reportable segments are based on managerial responsibility for a particular client. Because managerial responsibility for a particular client relationship generally correlates with the clients geographic location, there is a high degree of similarity between client locations and the geographic boundaries of our reportable segments. In some specific cases, however, managerial responsibility for a particular client is assigned to a management team in another region, usually based on the strength of the relationship between client executives and particular members of our senior management team. In such a case, the clients activity would be reported through the management teams reportable segment. Particularly, our acquired clients in the APAC region are reported as part of the Europe segment based on the managerial responsibility for those clients. The following table presents the percentage of our revenues by reportable segment: % of Segment Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Segment 2016 2015 2014 North America 55.3 % 51.5 % 51.3 % Europe 40.9 43.8 41.0 Russia 3.8 4.2 6.9 Other 0.5 0.8 Segment Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this annual report for additional information related to segments. The following table shows the distribution of our clients by revenues for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Revenues Greater Than or Equal To 2016 2015 2014 $0.1 million 431 365 306 $0.5 million 266 211 181 $1 million 182 136 116 $5 million 45 33 24 $10 million 19 14 12 $20 million 7 7 6 See Note 18 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding total assets, operating results and other financial information related to our reportable segments. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing efforts support our business strategy to increase our revenues from new and existing clients through our senior management, sales and business development staff, account managers, and technical specialists. We maintain a dedicated sales force and a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as sponsorship of programming competitions and participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events. 5 Table of Contents Given our focus on providing technical solutions to our clients complex challenges, our IT professionals play an integral role in engaging with clients on potential business opportunities. Our account managers maintain direct client relationships and are tasked with identifying new business opportunities and responding to requests-for-proposals, or RFPs. Account managers typically engage technical and other specialists when pursuing opportunities. This sales model has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing client base. In addition to effective client management, we believe that our reputation as a premium provider of software engineering solutions and information technology services drives additional business from inbound requests, referrals and requests for proposal (RFPs). We enjoy published recognition from third-party industry observers, such as Forrester Research, Forbes Research, Everest Group, Zinnov, CIO Magazine, Information Week, and Software Magazine. Our Delivery Model We have delivery centers located in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Bulgaria, Armenia, Poland, China, Mexico, Czech Republic and India. We have client management locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Netherlands, Russia, United Arab Emirates, Kazakhstan, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Ireland and Australia. We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our clients diverse needs and provide a compelling value proposition. We continuously grow our delivery platform both organically and through acquired delivery centers and client management locations. Our total headcount of revenue generating personnel was 19,670 as of December 31, 2016 . Our primary delivery centers are located in Belarus, where we have 6,390 IT professionals as of December 31, 2016 . The majority of these IT professionals are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is well-positioned to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base and established educational infrastructure. Furthermore, the IT industry in Belarus has been strongly supported by the government, which has taken steps to encourage investment in the IT sector through long-term tax incentives. Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government support of the IT industry, and, therefore, offer a strong and diversified delivery platform across Europe. As of December 31, 2016 , our delivery centers in Ukraine have 4,081 IT professionals and 2,834 IT professionals in Russia. Our delivery model has not been materially affected by the political and economic uncertainty in Russia or Ukraine to date. Our other significant delivery centers are in the United States with 1,127 IT professionals, Hungary with 1,511 IT professionals, India with 976 IT professionals and Poland with 946 IT professionals as of December 31, 2016 . These delivery centers are located strategically to serve clients in North America, Europe and Asia. Human Capital Attracting and retaining employees is a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and meet our clients needs. We have dedicated full-time employees that oversee all aspects of our human capital management process. It is critical that we effectively plan our short-term and long-term recruitment needs and deploy the necessary personnel and processes to optimize utilization and quickly satisfy the demands of our clients. As our business grows, we also focus on hiring and retaining individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, HR and other key management positions. At December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we had a total of 22,383 , 18,354 and 14,109 employees, respectively. Of these employees, as of December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively, 19,670 , 16,078 and 11,824 were revenue generating IT professionals. In our competitive industry, the ability to hire and retain highly-skilled information technology professionals is critical to our success. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our clients. To attract, retain and motivate our IT professionals, we offer a challenging work environment, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement and promotion opportunities thus providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. Historically, we have developed our base of IT professionals by hiring highly-qualified, experienced IT professionals from the CIS and CEE region and by recruiting students from leading universities there. The quality and academic prestige of the CIS and CEE educational system is renowned worldwide. We have strong relationships with the leading institutions in these geographies, such as the Belarusian State University, the Moscow State University, and the National Technical University of Ukraine. The participants from these universities are frequent and consistent winners in the ACM International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC), the oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest in the world. 6 Table of Contents We have established EPAM delivery centers near many of these university campuses. Our ongoing involvement with these universities includes supporting EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses, providing teaching equipment, actively supporting curriculum development and engaging students to identify their talents and interests. Our relationships with these technical institutions provide us access to a highly-qualified talent pool of programmers, and allow us to consistently attract highly-skilled students from these institutions. We also conduct lateral hiring through a dedicated IT professional talent acquisition team whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced IT professionals within the region and other EPAM locations. We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees and our employees have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements or engaged in any labor disputes. Training and Development We dedicate significant resources to the training and development of our IT professionals. We believe in the importance of supporting educational initiatives and we sponsor employees participation in internal and external training and certifications. Furthermore, we actively pursue partner engagements with technical institutions in CEE. We provide training, continuing education and career development programs for both entry-level and experienced IT professionals. Entry-level IT professionals undergo a rigorous training program that consists of approximately three to six months of classroom training, as well as numerous hours of hands-on training through actual engagements. This comprehensive program results in employees who are highly proficient and possess deep technical expertise that enables them to immediately serve our clients needs. For our mid-level and senior IT professionals, we offer continuing education programs aimed at helping them advance in their careers. We also provide mentoring opportunities, management and soft skills training, intensive workshops and management and technical advancement programs in order to support the development of middle and senior management through formal leadership training, evaluation, development and promotion. Quality and Process Management We have invested resources in developing a proprietary suite of internal applications and tools to manage all aspects of our delivery process. These applications and tools are effective in reducing costs and security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our clients. In addition, these applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions to global clients, further strengthening our relationships with them. Our proprietary ISO 9001:2008 and CMMI-certified Quality Management System has been documented, implemented and maintained to ensure the timely delivery of software development services to our clients. We have also developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our Project Management Center, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical to meeting or exceeding the service levels required by our clients. Our Quality Management System ensures that we provide timely delivery of software development services to enhance client satisfaction by enabling: objective valuation of the performed process, work products and services against the clients process descriptions, standards and procedures; identification, documentation and timely resolution of noncompliance issues; feedback to the clients project staff and managers on the results of quality assurance activities; monitoring and improvement of the software development process to ensure adopted standards and procedures are implemented and flaws are detected and resolved in a timely manner; and execution of planned and systematic problem prevention activities. 7 Table of Contents Our proprietary Project Management Center supports our software development delivery model. Our Project Management Center is effective in reducing risks and providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages based on the following features: multi-site, multi-project capabilities; activity-based software development lifecycle, which fully tracks the software development activities through the project documentation; project, role-based access control, which can be available to us, clients and third parties; fully configurable workflow engine with built-in notification and messaging; extensive reporting capabilities and tracking of key performance indicators; and integration with Microsoft Project and Outlook. The transparency and visibility into software development project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents and files provided by our Project Management Center promotes collaboration and strengthens our relationships with our clients. Improved traceability enables significant time savings and cost reductions for business users and IT management during change management for the software development lifecycle. The combination of our Project Management Center with our other proprietary internal applications enhances our offering by reducing errors, increasing quality, effectiveness and oversight, and improving maintenance time. Based on our analysis of publicly available information of IT services providers, we are the only ISAE 3402 Type 2 certified IT services provider with multiple delivery centers in CEE. This certification is a widely recognized auditing standard developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, and it serves as additional assurance to our clients regarding the control environment and the security of their sensitive data. Furthermore, this is an important certification for firms in data and information-intensive industries, as well as any organization that is subject to the internal controls certification requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our ISAE 3402 Type 2 certification, in addition to our multiple ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2008 attestations, underscores our focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global technology solutions providers as well as those based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as CEE, India and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, reputation and track record for high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to clients business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition primarily from: India-based technology outsourcing IT services providers, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions (NASDAQ:CTSH), GlobalLogic, HCL Technologies, Infosys Technologies (NASDAQ:INFY), Mindtree, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro (NASDAQ:WIT); U.S.-based technology outsourcing IT services providers, such as Syntel, Inc. (NASDAQ: SYNT), and Virtusa Corporation (NASDAQ: VRTU); CEE-based technology outsourcing IT services providers such as Luxoft Holding, Inc. (NYSE:LXFT); China-based technology outsourcing IT services providers such as Camelot Information Services, and Pactera; Other IT and Software Development services providers located elsewhere, such as Globant S.A. (NASDAQ: GLOB); Large global consulting and outsourcing firms, such as Accenture, Atos Origin, Capgemini, CSC and IBM; and In-house IT departments of our clients and potential clients. We believe that our focus on complex software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and the development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. Our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources; may be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands; may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can; and may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our clients. 8 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our clients. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment with us. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us remains confidential. We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our clients. These customary agreements cover our use of the clients software systems and platforms as our clients usually own the intellectual property in the products we develop for them. Furthermore, we usually grant a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, transferable and non-revocable license to our clients to use our preexisting intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary in order to use the software or systems we developed for them. Long-lived Assets Our long lived-assets disclosed in the table below consist of property and equipment. The table below presents the locations of our long-lived assets: Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Belarus $ 46,011 $ 44,879 $ 41,652 Russia 7,203 2,084 2,196 Ukraine 5,610 4,487 4,392 Hungary 3,485 2,485 2,773 United States 2,618 1,969 2,001 Poland 2,213 1,088 747 China 1,887 514 289 India 1,650 1,099 Other 2,939 1,894 1,084 Total $ 73,616 $ 60,499 $ 55,134 Acquisitions Our sustained growth and increased capabilities are furthered by both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management proficiency. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-corruption laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at http://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this annual report. 9 Table of Contents We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, http://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov . Our press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on our website. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors, which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations, are discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business over the past several years, both organically and through acquisitions. We have also grown our support function headcount, including finance, legal and other areas. Our rapid growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled IT professionals and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high-quality and process execution standards and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industries and locations; maintaining effective oversight of personnel and delivery centers; coordinating effectively across geographies and business units to execute our strategic plan; and developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems. Moreover, we intend to continue our expansion for the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. As we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological, operational, compliance and administrative risks and challenges, and we may not be able to mitigate these risks and challenges to successfully grow those services or markets. As a result of these problems associated with expansion, we may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our failure to successfully attract, train and retain new IT professionals with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to those clients. The ability to hire and retain highly-skilled information technology professionals is critical to our success. To maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business, we must attract, train and retain skilled IT professionals, including those with management experience. Competition for IT professionals can be intense in the markets where we operate and, accordingly, we may not be able to hire or retain all of the IT professionals necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs. Consequently, we may have to forgo projects due to lack of resources or inability to staff projects optimally. A significant increase in the attrition rate among IT professionals with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. In addition, any reductions in headcount for economic or business reasons, however temporary, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire IT professionals to meet our business requirements. 10 Table of Contents Increases in wages for our IT professionals and other compensation expense could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wage costs for IT professionals in CIS, CEE and APAC, and certain other geographies in which we operate are lower than comparable wage costs in more developed countries. However, wage costs in the service industry in these countries may increase at a faster rate than in the past, which ultimately may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our IT professionals and increase the prices for our services. Increases in wage costs may reduce our profitability. Additionally, we have granted certain equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and entered into other stock-based compensation arrangements in the past, and expect to continue this practice. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness to us of issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plan. However, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the value of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The issuance of equity-based compensation also results in additional dilution to our stockholders. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain new senior executives and key personnel in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted. If any of our senior executives or key personnel, such as business development managers, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key IT professionals and staff members to them. Additionally, there could be unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by such personnel. If any dispute arises between our senior executives or key personnel and us, any non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure agreements we have with our senior executives or key personnel might not provide effective protection to us, especially in CIS and CEE countries where some of our senior executives and key employees reside, in light of uncertainties with local legal systems. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our resource utilization and productivity levels. Our profitability is significantly impacted by our utilization levels of fixed-cost resources, such as our professionals as well as other resources such as computers and office space, and our productivity levels. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent years, which has materially increased both our headcount and fixed overhead costs. Some of our IT professionals are specially trained to work for specific clients or on specific projects and some of our offshore development centers are dedicated to specific clients or specific projects. Our ability to manage our utilization levels depends significantly on our ability to hire and train high-performing IT professionals and to staff projects appropriately, and on the general economy and its effect on our clients and their business decisions regarding the use of our services. If we experience a slowdown or stoppage of work for any client or on any project for which we have dedicated IT professionals or facilities, we may not be able to reallocate these IT professionals and facilities to other clients and projects to keep their utilization and productivity levels high. If we are not able to maintain optimal resource utilization levels without corresponding cost reductions or price increases, our profitability will suffer. 11 Table of Contents Our global business exposes us to operational and economic risks. We are a global company with substantial international operations. Our revenues from clients outside North America represented 41.6% , 45.9% and 48.5% of our revenues excluding reimbursable expenses for 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The majority of our employees, along with our development and delivery centers, are located in the CIS and CEE. The global nature of our business creates operational and economic risks. Risks inherent in conducting international operations include: foreign exchange fluctuations; application and imposition of protective legislation and regulations relating to import or export, including tariffs, quotas and other trade protection measures; difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and/or contractual rights; complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; potentially adverse tax consequences; competition from companies with more experience in a particular country or with international operations; and overall foreign policy and variability of foreign economic conditions. We earn our revenues and incur our expenses in multiple currencies, which exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, receivables, compensation, purchases and capital expenditures. Currency exchange volatility caused by political or economic instability or other factors, could materially impact our results. See