Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Executive Summary We are a leading global IT services provider focused on complex software product development services, software engineering and vertically-oriented custom development solutions. Since our inception in 1993, we have been serving independent software vendors, or ISVs, and technology companies. The foundation we have built serving ISVs and technology companies has enabled us to differentiate ourselves in the market for software engineering skills and technology capabilities. Our work with these clients exposes us to their customers challenges across a variety of industry verticals. This has enabled us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise and grow our business in multiple industry verticals, including Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Travel and Consumer. We have client management locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Russia, Switzerland, Netherlands, Kazakhstan, Singapore, Hong Kong, China and Australia. Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe and the CIS. Our delivery centers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Armenia and Poland are strategically located in centers of software engineering talent and educational excellence across the CEE and CIS. The majority of our employees are located in these delivery centers with compensation and benefits related to this pool of resources being the primary component of our operating expenses. Additionally, our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, such as computers and office space, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage efficiency of our global operations by maintaining adequate resource utilization levels and implementing company-wide cost-management programs. As a result, we have managed to create a relatively homogeneous delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients across all geographies, thereby further strengthening our relationships with them. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 93.9% and 78.4% of our revenues in 2013 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. Year-to-Date 2014 Developments and Trends During the three months ended March 31, 2014, total revenues grew by approximately 29% compared with the first quarter of 2013, driven by growth in North America and Europe. Our performance remained strong in the Banking and Financial Services and Travel and Consumer verticals, which increased 45.9% and 33.4%, respectively, during the first quarter of 2014 as compared to the corresponding period of 2013. In the first quarter of 2014, we passed another important milestone and resumed growth in revenues from certain long-time customers within the Business Information and Media vertical, including Thomson Reuters. In the first quarter of 2014, revenues from this vertical increased 19.2% as compared with an 8.8% year-over-year growth in the first quarter of 2013. We remain committed to maintaining and improving a well-balanced portfolio of clients and seek to grow revenues from our customers by continually expanding the scope and size of our engagements, as well as by growing our key customer base through internal business development efforts and strategic acquisitions. During the quarter ended March 31, 2014, our top five and top ten customers accounted for 33.5% and 45.5% of our revenues, respectively. On March 5, 2014, we completed an acquisition of a U.S.-based healthcare technology consulting firm Netsoft Holdings, LLC and an Armenia-based Ozsoft, LLC (collectively, Netsoft). Netsoft works with leading health plans in the U.S. on their medical management and claims systems and specializes in working with leaders in pioneering fields such as accountable care organizations, tele-medicine, healthcare analytics, personalized medicine, health information exchanges, and online self-service capabilities. The acquisition of Netsoft added approximately 40 IT professionals. 16 Table of Contents On April 30, 2014, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity of Joint Technology Development Limited, a company organized under the laws of Hong Kong, including its wholly-owned subsidiaries Jointech Software (Shenzen) Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of China, and Jointech Software Pte. Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore (collectively, Jointech). Jointech provides strategic technology services to multi-national organizations in investment banking, wealth and asset management. The acquisition of Jointech added over 200 IT professionals to our highly-experienced employee base and significantly extended our footprint in China, Hong Kong, and Singapore. With this acquisition, we expect to create an integrated global platform serving large multinational Banking and Financial Services customers, as well as meeting the needs of customers across all other verticals, in the growing market of South East Asia. Change in Presentation of Certain Financial Information As part of our discussion and analysis, we analyze revenues by geographical location. Effective second quarter of 2013, we individually reassigned geographical location of certain newly acquired customers to allow for a more accurate allocation of revenues among the specific customer sites that we serve. These changes had no effect on the results of operations and earnings per share reported in the first quarter of 2013 and were applied retrospectively, as presented in the table below. Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 As Previously Reported After Reclassification (in thousands, except percentages) Client Location North America $ 64,474 51.9 % $ 62,875 50.6 % Europe 43,632 35.1 45,231 36.4 CIS 14,654 11.8 14,654 11.8 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1,438 1.2 1,438 1.2 Revenues $ 124,198 100.0 % $ 124,198 100 % Summary of Results of Operations and Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following table presents a summary of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase 2014 2013 Dollars Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 160,384 $ 124,198 $ 36,186 29.1 % Income from operations 21,857 15,536 6,321 40.7 % Net income 17,364 12,680 4,684 36.9 % The key highlights of our consolidated results for the first quarter of 2014, as compared to the first quarter of 2013, were as follows: Revenue growth from customers in most of our key verticals, and in particular within Banking and Financial Services and Travel and Consumer verticals, which grew $14.9 million and $9.1 million, respectively, over the corresponding period of 2013; Continued recovery of the Business Information and Media vertical, which increased revenues by 19.2% in the first quarter of 2014, as compared to 8.8% growth in revenues in the first quarter of 2013; The European market continued its strong performance, generating revenue growth of $22.0 million during the first quarter of 2014, or 48.7%, over the corresponding period of 2013; Income from operations grew by 40.7% during the first quarter of 2014 compared with the first quarter of 2013, and by 1.1% as a percentage of revenues; Increase in net income of 36.9% during the first quarter of 2014 compared with the corresponding period of 2013. Expressed as a percentage of revenues, our net income increased 0.6% year-over year despite the adverse effects of higher effective tax rate and foreign exchange changes in the first quarter of 2014 as compared to the corresponding period last year. The operating results in any period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. 17 Table of Contents In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, we discuss the following key measures that are not calculated according to the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP): Income from operations, as reported on our consolidated and condensed statements of income and comprehensive income, excluding certain expenses and benefits, which we refer to as non-GAAP income from operations. The second measure calculates non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of reported revenues, which we refer to as non-GAAP operating margin. We believe that these non-GAAP measures help illustrate underlying trends in our business, and we use these measures to establish budgets and operational goals (communicated internally and externally), manage our business, and evaluate our performance. We also believe these measures help investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods and compare our operating results with those of similar companies. We exclude certain expenses and benefits from non-GAAP income from operations that we believe are not reflective of these underlying business trends and are not useful measures in determining our operational performance and overall business strategy. Because our reported non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated according to GAAP, these measures are not comparable to GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly described non-GAAP measures reported by other companies within our industry. Consequently, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be evaluated in isolation from or supplant comparable GAAP measures, but, rather, should be considered together with our consolidated and condensed financial statements, which are prepared according to GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations as reported on our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income to non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP income from operations $ 21,857 $ 15,536 Stock-based compensation expense 3,208 2,576 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 650 699 Acquisition-related costs 581 38 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 26,296 $ 18,849 GAAP operating margin 13.6 % 12.5 % Effect of the adjustments detailed above 2.8 2.7 Non-GAAP operating margin 16.4 % 15.2 % From time to time, we acquire businesses and incur operating expenses, which we would not otherwise have incurred. Such expenses include acquisition-related costs and amortization of acquired intangible assets. These costs are dependent on a number of factors and are generally inconsistent in amount and frequency, as well as significantly impacted by the timing and size of related acquisitions. Additionally, the size, complexity and volume of past acquisitions, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related costs, may not be indicative of the size, complexity and volume of future transactions. Amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded from our non-GAAP measures to allow management to evaluate our operating results as if these assets have been developed internally rather than acquired in a business combination. We believe this approach provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the acquired intangible assets are treated in a manner comparable to the internally developed assets. Stock-based compensation expense is excluded from our non-GAAP measures because we believe such exclusion allows for a more accurate comparison of our operating results among the periods, as well as enhances comparability with operating results of peer companies. We also exclude certain other expenses and one-time charges because we believe they are not indicative of what we consider to be organic, continuing operations. Such items include goodwill impairment write-offs, legal settlement expenses, and certain other non-cash one-time charges. See our Results of Operations section below for a more detailed discussion and analysis of these charges. We have significant international operations, and we earn revenues and incur expenses in multiple currencies. When important to managements analysis, operating results are compared in constant currency terms, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The effect of rate fluctuations is excluded by translating the current periods revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates of the prior period of comparison. See Item 3,