Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as may be required under applicable law. PART I Item 1. Business Overview We are a leading global IT services provider focused on complex software product development services, software engineering and vertically-oriented custom development solutions. Since our inception in 1993, we have been serving independent software vendors, or ISVs, and technology companies. These companies produce advanced software and technology products that demand sophisticated software engineering talent, tools, methodologies and infrastructure to deliver solutions that support functionality and configurability to sustain multiple generations of platform innovation. The foundation we have built serving ISVs and technology companies has enabled us to differentiate ourselves in the market for software engineering skills and technology capabilities. Our work with these clients exposes us to their customers challenges across a variety of industry verticals. This has enabled us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise and grow our business in multiple industry verticals, including Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, Travel and Hospitality and Retail and Consumer. Our historical core competency is full lifecycle software development services including design and prototyping, product development and testing, component design and integration, product deployment, performance tuning, porting and cross-platform migration. We have developed extensive experience in each of these areas by working collaboratively with leading ISVs and technology companies, creating an unparalleled foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include custom application development, application testing, enterprise application platforms, application maintenance and support, and infrastructure management. 1 Table of Contents We believe the quality of our employees underpins our success and serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our clients. Our delivery centers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan and Poland are strategically located in centers of software engineering talent and educational excellence across Central and Eastern Europe, or CEE, and the Commonwealth of Independent States, or the CIS. CEE includes Albania, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Republic of Macedonia, Romania, Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovakia, Slovenia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Turkey and Ukraine. The CIS is comprised of constituents of the former U.S.S.R., including Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. Our highly-skilled information technology, or IT, professionals, combined with our extensive experience in delivering custom solutions that meet our clients pressing business needs, has allowed us to develop a deep culture of software engineering excellence. We believe this culture enables us to attract, train and retain talented IT professionals. We employ highly-educated IT professionals, nearly all of whom hold a masters equivalent university degree in math, science or engineering and are proficient in English. To ensure we attract the best candidates from this deep talent pool, we have developed close relationships with leading technical institutions in CEE, whereby we actively support curriculum development and engage students to identify their talents and interests. We continue to expand these efforts throughout the major talent hubs within CEE. Since inception, we have invested significant resources into developing a proprietary suite of internal applications and tools to manage all aspects of our delivery process. These applications and tools are effective in reducing risks, such as security breaches and cost overruns, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages to both us and our clients. In addition, these applications and tools enable us to provide solutions using the optimal software product development methodologies, including iterative methodologies such as Agile development. Our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients, thereby further strengthening our relationships with them. We believe we are the only ISAE 3000 Type II certified IT services provider with multiple delivery centers in CEE, based on our analysis of publicly available information of IT services providers. This certification is a widely recognized auditing standard developed by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, and it serves as additional assurance to our clients that are required to validate the controls in place to protect the security of their sensitive data. Furthermore, this is an important certification for firms in data and information-intensive industries, as well as any organization that is subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, internal controls certification requirements. Our ISAE 3000 Type II certification, in addition to our multiple ISO/IEC 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2000 attestations, underscores our focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls. Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe and the CIS. We maintain a geographically diverse client base with 49.4% of our 2011 revenues from clients located in North America, 32.0% from clients in Europe and 16.8% from clients in the CIS. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 86.0% and 70.5% of our revenues in 2011 coming from clients that had used our services for at least two and three years, respectively. In addition, we have significantly grown the size of existing accounts. For example, from 2008 to 2011 the number of clients accounting for over $5.0 million in annual revenues increased from seven to fifteen. Our Approach Since our inception, we have focused on software product development, which we have refined through repeat, multi-year engagements with major ISVs. Unlike custom application development, which is usually tailored to very specific business requirements, software products of ISVs must be designed with a high level of 2 Table of Contents product configurability and operational performance to address the needs of a diverse set of end-users working in multiple industries and operating in a variety of deployment environments. This demands a strong focus on upfront design and architecture, strict software engineering practices, and extensive testing procedures. Our focus on software product development services for ISVs and technology companies requires high-quality software engineering talent, advanced knowledge of up-to-date methodologies and productivity tools, and strong project management practices. As a result, we have developed a culture focused on innovation, technology leadership and process excellence, which helps us maintain a strong reputation with our clients for technical expertise and high-quality project delivery. Our work with ISVs and technology companies, including both global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging, innovative technology companies focusing on new trends, exposes us to their customers business and strategic challenges, allowing us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise. In this sense, our experience with ISV and technology company clients enables us to grow our business in multiple industries, including Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, Travel and Hospitality and Retail and Consumer. Our Services Our service offerings cover the full software development lifecycle from complex software development services through maintenance and support, custom application development, application testing, enterprise application platforms and infrastructure management. Our key service offerings include: Software Product Development Services We provide a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, design and prototyping, product development, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on development services for enterprise software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Custom Application Development Services We offer complete custom application development services to meet the requirements of businesses with sophisticated application development needs not adequately supported by packaged applications or by existing custom solutions. Our custom application development services leverage our experience in software product development as well as our industry expertise, prebuilt application solution frameworks and specific software product assets. Our range of services includes business and technical requirements analysis, solution architecture creation and validation, development, component design and integration, quality assurance and testing, deployment, performance tuning, support and maintenance, legacy applications re-engineering/refactoring, porting and cross-platform migration and documentation. Application Testing Services We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals. Our Quality Management System complies with global quality standards such as ISO 9001:2000 and we employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services. Our application testing services include: (i) software application testing, including test automation tools and frameworks; (ii) testing for enterprise IT, including test management, automation, functional and non-functional testing, as well as defect management; and (iii) consulting services focused on helping clients improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. 3 Table of Contents Enterprise Application Platforms As a proven provider of software product development services to major ISVs, we have participated in the development of industry standard technology and business application platforms and their components in such specific areas as customer relationship management and sales automation, enterprise resource planning, enterprise content management, business intelligence, e-commerce, mobile, Software-as-a-Service and cloud deployment. Our experience in such areas allowed us to offer services around Enterprise Application Platforms, which include requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration, as well as support and maintenance. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our clients chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality necessary to address the needs of the clients users and customers. Application Maintenance and Support We deliver application maintenance and support services through a dedicated team of IT professionals. Our application maintenance and support offerings meet rigorous CMMI and ISAE 3000 Type II requirements. Our clients benefit from our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. Our services include incident management, fault investigation diagnosis, work-around provision, application bug fixes, release management, application enhancements and third-party maintenance. Infrastructure Management Services Given the increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures, our service offerings also cover infrastructure management services. We have significant expertise in implementing large infrastructure monitoring solutions, providing real-time notification and control from the low-level infrastructure up to and including applications. Our ISAE 3000 Type II, ISO/IEC 27001:2005 and ISO 9001:2000 certifications provide our clients with third-party verification of our information security policies. Our solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as incident notification and resolution. Our Verticals Strong vertical-specific domain knowledge backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our clients allows us to deliver tailored solutions to the following industry verticals: ISVs and Technology; Banking and Financial Services; Business Information and Media; Travel and Hospitality; and Retail and Consumer. We also serve the diverse technology needs of clients in the energy, telecommunications, automotive, manufacturing, insurance and life sciences industries and the government. 4 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our revenues by vertical by amount and as a percentage of our revenues for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands, except percent) Vertical ISVs and Technology $ 87,369 26.2 % $ 68,727 31.0 % $ 57,695 38.5 % Banking and Financial Services 76,419 22.8 42,835 19.3 17,069 11.4 Business Information and Media 62,350 18.6 45,749 20.6 28,587 19.1 Travel and Hospitality 40,110 12.0 18,780 8.5 9,869 6.6 Retail and Consumer 31,596 9.4 17,681 8.0 9,856 6.6 Other verticals 30,508 9.2 24,279 10.9 24,732 16.4 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 6,176 1.8 3,773 1.7 2,131 1.4 Revenues $ 334,528 100.0 % $ 221,824 100.0 % $ 149,939 100.0 % ISVs and Technology . ISVs and technology companies have a constant need for innovation and rapid time-to-market. Since inception, we have focused on providing complex software product development services to leading global ISVs and technology companies to meet these demands. Through our experience with many industry leaders, we have developed rigorous standards for software product development, as well as proprietary internal processes, methodologies and IT infrastructure. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development, testing and performance tuning, deployment and maintenance and support. We offer a comprehensive set of software development methodologies, depending on client requirements, from linear or sequential methodologies such as waterfall, to iterative methodologies such as Agile. In addition, we are establishing close partner relationships with many of our ISV and technology company clients and are offering distributed professional services around their product offerings directly to our corporate clients. Banking and Financial Services. We established our Banking and Financial Services vertical in 2006 and have significant experience working with global retail and investment banks, investment firms, depositories, corporate treasuries, pension funds and market data providers. We offer a broad portfolio of services in asset and wealth management, corporate and retail banking, cards and payments, investment banking and brokerage, research and analysis, as well as governance, risk and compliance. We have also established an internal Capital Markets Competency Center, which facilitates knowledge exchange, education and collaboration across our organization and develops new software products, frameworks and components to further enhance our industry-specific solutions and services. Business Information and Media. We have established long term relationships with leading business information and media companies, which enable us to bring sustainable value creation and enhanced return-on-content for organizations within this vertical. Our solutions help clients develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve clients in a range of business information and media sub-sectors, including entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors and advertising networks. Our Business Information Competency Center enables us to provide our clients with solutions that help them overcome challenges related to operating legacy systems, manage varied content formats, rationalize their online assets and lower their cost of delivery. In addition, we provide knowledge discovery platform services through our InfoNgen business, which combines custom taxonomy development with web crawling, internal file and e-mail classification, newsletter and feed publication and content trend analysis. Travel and Hospitality. We have extensive experience in designing, implementing and supporting solutions for the travel and hospitality industry. This has led to the development of a substantial repository of knowledge components and solutions, such as our Loyalty, Marketing and Booking Engine frameworks, 5 Table of Contents which results in accelerated development and implementation of solutions, while ensuring enterprise-class reliability. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. Retail and Consumer. We work closely with leading companies in the retail and consumer industry to enable our clients to better leverage technology and address simultaneous pressures of driving value for the consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Our expertise allows us to integrate our services with our clients existing enterprise resource planning, billing fulfillment and customer relationship management solutions. We have created rich, interactive user interfaces for a range of applications. We also offer deep expertise across several domains including business-to-business and business-to-consumer e-commerce, customer/partners self service, employee portals, online merchandising and sales, web content management, mobile solutions and billing. Our Delivery Model We have delivery centers located in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan and Poland. We have client management locations in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, Russia and Kazakhstan. We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our clients diverse needs and provide a compelling value proposition. Our primary delivery centers with approximately 3,000 IT professionals are located in Belarus, the majority of which are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is a major educational and industrial center in CEE. It is well-suited to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base, good educational infrastructure and legacy as the center of computer science for the former Soviet Union. Furthermore, the IT industry in Belarus has been strongly supported by the government, which has taken steps to encourage investment in the IT sector through long-term tax incentives. Our delivery centers in Ukraine have approximately 1,700 IT professionals. Ukraine promotes the growth of a domestic IT outsourcing export industry that is supported by regulation, intellectual property protection and a favorable investment climate. Our delivery centers in Russia have approximately 1,000 IT professionals. Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government sponsorship of the IT industry. We believe our locations in Ukraine and Russia, along with our delivery centers in Belarus, offer a strong and diversified delivery platform across CEE. Our delivery centers in Hungary have approximately 650 IT professionals and serve as the center for our nearshore delivery capabilities to European clients. Hungarys geographic proximity, cultural affinity and similar time zones with our clients in Europe enables increased interaction that creates closer client relationships, increased responsiveness and more efficient delivery of our solutions. Our client management locations maintain account management and production personnel with significant project management capabilities, which enable us to work seamlessly with our clients and delivery centers. Our onsite and offshore delivery teams are linked together through common processes and collaboration applications and tools and a communications infrastructure that features a secure and redundant environment enabling global collaboration. Quality and Process Management We have built complex proprietary applications and tools to manage quality, security and transparency of the delivery process in a distributed environment. Our proprietary ISO 9001:2000 and CMMI-certified Quality Management System has been documented, implemented and maintained to ensure the timely delivery of 6 Table of Contents software development services to our clients. We have also developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our Project Management Center, a web-based collaborative environment for software development which we consider critical to meeting or exceeding the service levels required by our clients. Our Quality Management System ensures that we provide timely delivery of software development services to enhance client satisfaction by enabling: objective valuation of the performed process, work products and services against the clients process descriptions, standards and procedures; identification, documentation and timely resolution of noncompliance issues; feedback to the clients project staff and managers on the results of quality assurance activities; monitoring and improvement of the software development process to ensure adopted standards and procedures are implemented and flaws are detected and resolved in a timely manner; and execution of planned and systematic problem prevention activities. Our proprietary Project Management Center supports our software development delivery model. Our Project Management Center is effective in reducing risks and providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages based on the following features: multi-site, multi-project capabilities; activity-based software development lifecycle, which fully tracks the software development activities through the project documentation; project, role-based access control, which can be available to us, clients and third parties; fully configurable workflow engine with built-in notification and messaging; extensive reporting capabilities and tracking of key performance indicators; and integration with Microsoft Project and Outlook. The transparency and visibility into software development project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents and files provided by our Project Management Center promotes collaboration and strengthens our relationships with our clients. Improved traceability enables significant time savings and cost reductions for business users and IT management during change management for the software development lifecycle. The combination of our Project Management Center with our other proprietary internal applications enhances our offering by reducing errors, increasing quality and improving maintenance time. Combining applications can lead to more efficient communications and oversight for both clients and our staff. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy seeks to increase our revenues from new and existing clients through our account managers, sales and business development managers, vertical specialists, technical specialists and subject-matter experts. Given our focus on complex application development and the needs of our clients, we believe our IT professionals play an integral role in engaging with clients on potential business opportunities. For example, account managers are organized vertically and maintain direct client relationships. In addition, they are responsible for handling inbound requests and referrals, identifying new business opportunities and responding to requests-for-proposals, or RFPs. Account managers typically engage technical and other specialists in responding to RFPs and pursuing opportunities. This sales model has been effective in promoting repeated business and growth from within our existing client base. 7 Table of Contents In addition to effective client management, we believe that our reputation as a premium provider of software product development services drives additional business from inbound requests, referrals and RFPs. We enjoy published recognition from other third-party industry observers, such as the Global Outsourcing Services 100, Global Service Magazine, neoIT and Software Magazine. We also maintain a dedicated sales force as well as a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts that range from sponsorship of programming competitions to participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events. Clients Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, our largest client, Thomson Reuters, accounted for over 10% of our revenues. No other client represented over 10% of our revenues for 2011, 2010 and 2009. The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues for the periods presented by client location: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Client Location 2011 2010 2009 North America 49.4 % 52.8 % 53.5 % Europe 32.0 26.4 21.8 CIS 16.8 19.1 23.3 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1.8 1.7 1.4 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The following table sets forth the percentage of our revenues by client vertical for the periods presented: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, Vertical 2011 2010 2009 ISVs and Technology 26.2 % 31.0 % 38.5 % Banking and Financial Services 22.8 19.3 11.4 Business Information and Media 18.6 20.6 19.1 Travel and Hospitality 12.0 8.5 6.6 Retail and Consumer 9.4 8.0 6.6 Other verticals 9.2 10.9 16.4 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1.8 1.7 1.4 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % The following table shows the distribution of our clients by revenues for the periods presented: Revenues Greater Than or Equal To 2011 2010 2009 $0.1 million 176 143 131 $0.5 million 98 72 63 $1 million 54 43 37 $5 million 15 10 3 $10 million 8 4 1 8 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our revenues by service offering by amount and as a percentage of our revenues for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Service Offering 2011 2010 2009 (in thousands, except percent) Software development $ 219,211 65.5 % $ 149,658 67.5 % $ 105,397 70.3 % Application testing services 67,840 20.3 44,459 20.0 28,489 19.0 Application maintenance and support 29,287 8.8 19,262 8.7 11,828 7.9 Infrastructure services 8,488 2.5 2,823 1.3 Licensing 3,526 1.1 1,849 0.8 2,094 1.4 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 6,176 1.8 3,773 1.7 2,131 1.4 Revenues $ 334,528 100.0 % $ 221,824 100.0 % $ 149,939 100.0 % We typically enter into a master services agreement with our clients, which provides a framework for services that is then supplemented by statements of work, which specify the particulars of each individual engagement, including the services to be performed, pricing terms and performance criteria. For example, we have entered into a master services agreement with Thomson Reuters. Under this master services agreement, we may not use subcontractors to perform the services without Thomson Reuters prior written consent. Our personnel must comply with Thomson Reuters security policies. The intellectual property rights to deliverables we make in the course of, or enabling the, performance of the services we provide to Thomson Reuters are owned by Thomson Reuters. Deliverables and services are subject to acceptance testing, and liquidated damages are prescribed for late delivery. Service credits are prescribed for service-level failures and charges are subject to adjustment for deficiencies in services that are not measured by service levels. The master services agreement provides step-in rights, benchmarking, monitoring rights and audit rights. The master services agreement is not a commitment to purchase our services, and may be terminated for various reasons including a time-limited right of termination upon a change-of-control event or without cause upon six months notice. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global IT services providers as well as those based in CEE. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, reputation and track record for high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to clients business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition primarily from: India-based technology outsourcing IT services providers, such as Cognizant Technology Solutions, GlobalLogic, HCL Technologies, Infosys Technologies, Mindtree, Sapient, Symphony Technology Group, Tata Consultancy Services and Wipro; Local CEE technology outsourcing IT services providers; Large global consulting and outsourcing firms, such as Accenture, Atos Origin, Capgemini, CSC and IBM; China-based technology outsourcing IT services providers such as Camelot Information Services, hiSoft Technology International, iSoftStone and VanceInfo Technologies; and In-house IT departments of our clients and potential clients. 9 Table of Contents We are a leading global IT services provider of complex software product development and software engineering services in CEE. We believe that our focus on complex software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and the development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. However, we face competition from offshore IT services providers in other outsourcing destinations with low wage costs, such as India and China, and from IT services providers that have more locations or that are based in countries more stable than some CIS and CEE countries. Our present and potential competitors may also have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources; may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands; may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can; and may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our clients. Human Capital Our people are critical to the success of our business. Attracting and retaining employees is a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and meet our clients needs. We had approximately 8,125, 6,168 and 4,432 employees as of December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Of these employees, approximately 95.0% were located in the CIS and CEE, 1.9% were located in Western Europe (excluding Hungary) and 3.1% were located in North America as of December 31, 2011. We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees and we have not experienced any labor disputes. Our employees have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements. Recruitment and Retention We believe our company culture and reputation as a leading global IT services provider of complex software product development and software engineering services in CEE enhances our ability to recruit and retain highly sought-after employees. We have dedicated full-time employees that oversee all aspects of our human capital management process. Through our proprietary internal tools, we effectively plan our short-term and long-term recruitment needs and deploy the necessary personnel and processes to optimize utilization and to quickly satisfy the demands of our clients. We have developed our base of IT professionals by hiring highly-qualified, experienced IT professionals from this region and by recruiting students from leading technical institutions in CEE. We have strong relationships with the leading technical institutions in CEE, such as the Belarusian State University, Saint Petersburg State University of Information Technologies, Mechanics and Optics, Moscow State University of Instrument Engineering and Computer Sciences and National Technical University of Ukraine, and we have established EPAM delivery centers near many of these campuses. Our ongoing involvement with these technical institutions includes supporting EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses, providing teaching equipment, actively supporting curriculum development and engaging students to identify their talents and interests. Our relationships with these technical institutions provide us access to a highly-qualified talent pool of programmers, and allow us to consistently attract highly-skilled students from these institutions. We also conduct lateral hiring through a dedicated IT professional talent acquisition team whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced IT professionals within the region. To attract, retain and motivate our IT professionals, we seek to provide an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. In addition, we offer a challenging work environment, ongoing skills development initiatives and attractive career advancement and promotion opportunities. Training and Development We dedicate significant resources to the training and development of our IT professionals. We believe in the importance of supporting educational initiatives and we sponsor employees participation in internal and external training and certifications. Furthermore, we actively pursue partner engagements with technical institutions in CEE. 10 Table of Contents We provide training, continuing education and career development programs for both entry-level and experienced IT professionals. Entry-level IT professionals undergo a rigorous training program that consists of approximately three to six months of classroom training, as well as numerous hours of hands-on training through actual engagements. This comprehensive program results in employees who are highly proficient and possess deep technical expertise that enables them to immediately serve our clients needs. For our mid-level and senior IT professionals, we offer continuing education programs aimed at helping them advance in their careers. We also provide mentoring opportunities, management and soft skills training, intensive workshops and management and technical advancement programs. We are committed to systematically identifying and nurturing the development of middle and senior management through formal leadership training, evaluation, development and promotion. Intellectual Property Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, independent contractors, vendors and clients to enter into written confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us be kept confidential. We customarily enter into non-disclosure agreements with our clients with respect to the use of their software systems and platforms. Our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software or systems we develop for them. Furthermore, we usually grant a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, transferable and non-revocable license to our clients to use our preexisting intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary in order to use the software or systems we developed for them. Protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our clients. As of December 31, 2011 we had registered intellectual property consisting of 13 U.S. trademarks, 4 non-U.S. trademarks, 1 Russian copyright and 77 active domain names. In 2005, we entered into a Consent of Use and Settlement Agreement with Princeton Financial Services, Inc., or PFS, whereby we consented to PFSs use of the mark ePAM in connection with the hosting of its software application but solely using a lowercase e and uppercase PAM and PFS consented to all uses by us of the EPAM mark other than as capitalized in the foregoing (i.e., ePAM). While we consider the intellectual property embodied by certain of our solutions, such as our InfoNgen services, important to our business, we do not believe that any individual registered intellectual property right other than our rights in our name is material to our business. Long-lived Assets The table below sets forth the locations of our long-lived assets: As of December 31, Location 2011 2010 United States $ 1,445 $ 386 Belarus 26,001 20,377 Ukraine 4,314 2,223 Russia 2,011 1,263 Hungary 1,108 704 Other 603 385 Total $ 35,482 $ 25,338 11 Table of Contents Acquisitions We have acquired a number of companies in order to expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. In May 2009, we acquired the assets of Rodmon Systems Inc., a company with operations in the United States and Belarus and 28 IT professionals and an experienced management team, in order to secure a large strategic client relationship which further strengthened our Business Information and Media vertical, our experienced management team and our technical IT professionals. In August 2010, we acquired the assets of Instant Information, Inc., a company with operations in the United States and Belarus with 53 IT professionals, in order to acquire an experienced management team and skilled IT professionals, thereby further strengthening our Business Information and Media vertical, and to acquire the rights to the intellectual property embodied by our InfoNgen services and cloud deployment capabilities. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations, and several Belarusian, Russian, Ukrainian, Hungarian, Kazakhstan and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations or unfavorable interpretation by authorities of these regulations could harm our business. and Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate concerning our operations, including export restrictions, U.S. economic sanctions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We benefit from certain tax incentives promulgated by the Belarusian and Hungarian governments. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Income Statement Line Items Provision for Income Taxes. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at http://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this annual report. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, http://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, these filings are available on the internet at http://www.sec.gov . Our press releases and recent analyst presentations are also available on our website. The information on our website does not constitute a part of this annual report. 12 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table sets forth certain information concerning our executive officers as of the date of this annual report: Name Age Position Arkadiy Dobkin 51 Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of Directors Karl Robb 49 President of EU Operations, Executive Vice President and Director Ilya Cantor 43 Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer Balazs Fejes 36 Chief Technology Officer Ginger Mosier 47 Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Arkadiy Dobkin has served as Chairman of our board, Chief Executive Officer and President since December 2002. Mr. Dobkin began his career in Minsk, Belarus, where he worked for several emerging software development companies. After immigrating to the United States, he held thought and technical leadership positions in Colgate-Palmolive Company and SAP Labs. Mr. Dobkin holds a MS in Electrical Engineering from the Belarusian National Technical University. We believe that Mr. Dobkins experience as an IT professional and executive in the IT services industry coupled with his in-depth understanding of our global delivery model provide him with the necessary skills to serve as a member of our board of directors and will enable him to provide valuable insight to the board and our management team regarding operational, strategic and management issues as well as general industry trends. Karl Robb has served as a director of our board, as our President of EU Operations and Executive Vice President since March 2004. Mr. Robb is a 29-year global software engineering industry veteran, having worked nine years in Europe, nine years in the United States and 11 years in Eastern Europe. In March of 2004, Fathom Technology, a Hungarian software development outsourcing firm where Mr. Robb was a co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, merged with EPAM Systems, whereupon Mr. Robb became Executive VP, Global Operations, and a member of the Board of Directors of EPAM. Mr. Robb has been employed as a consultant by Landmark Business Development Limited, or Landmark, a consulting firm, since 1986. We believe that Mr. Robbs experience as an executive in the IT services industry and his knowledge of the IT services industry in North America, Europe and CEE as well as his experience working with global IT services companies and successfully starting two software companies, provides him with the necessary skills to serve as a member of our board of directors and will enable him to provide valuable insight to the board regarding operational and management issues as well as general industry trends. Ilya Cantor has served as our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since March 2012 and as our Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since July 2006. Prior to joining EPAM, Mr. Cantor spent seven years in a variety of financial and operational positions at Dow Jones, including Executive Director of Operations of The Wall Street Journal, Chief Financial Officer of The Wall Street Journal and Group Finance Director of The Wall Street Journal International. Between 2002 and 2005, Mr. Cantor served on the board of directors of CNBC International, which was at the time a financial news television joint venture between NBC Capital Corp and Dow Jones in Asia and Europe. Before joining Dow Jones in 1999, Mr. Cantor was the Chief Financial Officer of Independent Media (now Independent MediaSanoma), a leading publishing house based in Moscow, Russia. Previous to this, Mr. Cantor was an Audit Manager with Coopers & Lybrand, LLP (now PricewaterhouseCoopers) in Moscow. He started his career with Coopers & Lybrand in Los Angeles in 1991, after graduating from California State University at Long Beach. Balazs Fejes has served as our Chief Technology Officer since March 2004. Mr. Fejes joined us when Fathom Technology, a Hungarian software engineering firm, which he co-founded and for which he served as Chief Technology Officer, merged with us. Prior to co-founding Fathom Technology, Mr. Fejes was a chief software architect/line manager with Microsoft Great Plains (Microsoft Business Solutions). He also served as a 13 Table of Contents chief software architect of Scala Business Solutions. Mr. Fejes has been employed as a consultant by Redlodge Holdings Limited, a consulting firm, since July 2007. Between January 2001 and July 2007, Mr. Fejes was employed as a consultant by Landmark. Mr. Fejes currently serves as Managing Director for EPAM Systems Switzerland GmbH, EPAM Systems Kft, EPAM Systems Aps and EPAM Systems Nordic AB. Ginger Mosier has served as our Vice President, General Counsel since March 2010, as our Assistant Corporate Secretary from May 2010 to January 2012 and as our Corporate Secretary since January 2012. Prior to joining EPAM, Ms. Mosier spent approximately eight years in a variety of legal positions with Hewlett-Packard Company. In her last position, she served as senior counsel advising on global IT outsourcing deals and related services transactions. Prior to that she advised a number of HP Software divisions as corporate counsel and was the legal representative for the HP Software Integration Office created for implementing the acquisition and integration of several software companies. Immediately prior to Hewlett-Packard, Ms. Mosier practiced corporate law at Drinker, Biddle & Reath. Ms. Mosier began her legal career at Baker & Daniels. Ms. Mosier holds a J.D., magna cum laude, from Indiana University School of Law at Indianapolis where she was a member of the Indiana Law Review and a B.A. from Indiana University Purdue University at Indianapolis. Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations are discussed below and elsewhere in this annual report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently not believed to be significant to our business may also affect our actual results and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of the risks or uncertainties described below or any additional risks and uncertainties actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In particular, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth, which could place significant strain on our management personnel, systems and resources. We have experienced rapid growth and significantly expanded our business recently. Our revenues grew from $160.6 million in 2008 to $334.5 million in 2011. We have also supplemented our organic growth with strategic acquisitions. As of December 31, 2011, we had 6,968 IT professionals, as compared to 2,890 IT professionals as of December 31, 2007. We intend to continue our expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. Our rapid growth has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Continued expansion increases the challenges we face in: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled IT professionals and management personnel; adhering to and further improving our high-quality and process execution standards and maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; managing a larger number of clients in a greater number of industries and locations; maintaining effective oversight of personnel and delivery centers; preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; and developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems. 14 Table of Contents Moreover, as we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar, and it may require substantial management efforts and skills to mitigate these risks and challenges. As a result of any of these problems associated with expansion, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to achieve anticipated growth, which could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. We intend to continue our expansion in the foreseeable future to pursue existing and potential market opportunities. As we introduce new services or enter into new markets, we may face new market, technological and operational risks and challenges with which we are unfamiliar, and we may not be able to mitigate these risks and challenges to successfully grow those services or markets. We may not be able to achieve our anticipated growth, which could materially adversely affect our business and prospects. If we fail to attract and retain highly skilled IT professionals, we may not have the necessary resources to properly staff projects, and failure to successfully compete for such IT professionals could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to our clients. Our success depends largely on the contributions of our IT professionals and our ability to attract and retain qualified IT professionals. Competition for IT professionals in the markets in which we operate can be intense and, accordingly, we may not be able to retain or hire all of the IT professionals necessary to meet our ongoing and future business needs. Any reductions in headcount for economic or business reasons, however temporary, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire IT professionals to meet our business requirements. The total attrition rates among our IT professionals who have worked for us for at least six months were 9.1%, 9.4% and 11.2% for 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We may encounter higher attrition rates in the future. A significant increase in the attrition rate among IT professionals with specialized skills could decrease our operating efficiency and productivity and could lead to a decline in demand for our services. The competition for highly-skilled IT professionals may require us to increase salaries, and we may be unable to pass on these increased costs to our clients. In addition, our ability to maintain and renew existing engagements and obtain new business will depend, in large part, on our ability to attract, train and retain skilled IT professionals, including experienced management IT professionals, which enables us to keep pace with growing demands for outsourcing, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. If we are unable to attract and retain the highly-skilled IT professionals we need, we may have to forgo projects for lack of resources or be unable to staff projects optimally. Our failure to attract, train and retain IT professionals with the qualifications necessary to fulfill the needs of our existing and future clients or to assimilate new IT professionals successfully could materially adversely affect our ability to provide high quality services to our clients. Increases in wages and other compensation expense for our IT professionals could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage. Wage costs for IT professionals in CIS and CEE countries are lower than comparable wage costs in more developed countries. However, wage costs in the CIS and CEE IT services industry may increase at a faster rate than in the past, which ultimately may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our IT professionals as well as the prices we can charge for our services. Increases in wage costs may reduce our profitability. In addition, the issuance of equity-based compensation to our IT professionals would also result in additional dilution to our stockholders. 15 Table of Contents Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. We currently do not maintain key man life insurance for any of the senior members of our management team or other key personnel. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, it could disrupt our business operations, and we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, competition for senior executives and key personnel in our industry is intense, and we may be unable to retain our senior executives and key personnel or attract and retain new senior executives and key personnel in the future, in which case our business may be severely disrupted. If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, suppliers, know-how and key IT professionals and staff members to them. Also, if any of our business development managers, who generally keep a close relationship with our clients, joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose clients, and our revenues may be materially adversely affected. Additionally, there could be unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge, practices or procedures by such personnel. If any dispute arises between our senior executives or key personnel and us, any non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure agreements we have with our senior executives or key personnel might not provide effective protection to us, especially in CIS and CEE countries where some of our senior executives and most of our key employees reside, in light of uncertainties with legal systems in CIS and CEE countries. Emerging markets such as the CIS and CEE countries are subject to greater risks than more developed markets, including significant legal, economic, tax and political risks. We have significant operations in CIS countries, including Belarus, Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan and in Hungary, which is a CEE country. Investors in emerging markets such as CIS and CEE countries should be aware that these markets are subject to greater risk than more developed markets, including in some cases significant legal, economic, tax and political risks. Investors should also note that emerging economies such as the economies of Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan and Hungary are subject to rapid change and that the information set forth in this annual report may become outdated relatively quickly. Accordingly, investors should exercise particular care in evaluating the risks involved and must decide for themselves whether, in light of those risks, an investment in our common stock is appropriate. See Risks Related to Conducting Business in the CIS and CEE Countries. We generate a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of clients, and any loss of business from these clients could materially reduce our revenues. We have derived, and believe that in the foreseeable future we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our revenues from a small number of clients. During 2011, 2010 and 2009, our largest client, Thomson Reuters, accounted for over 10% of our revenues. In the aggregate, our top ten clients accounted for 44.6%, 42.6%, and 35.3% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these and other major clients is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. However, the volume of work performed for a specific client is likely to vary from year to year, especially since we generally are not our clients exclusive IT services provider and we do not have long-term commitments from any clients to purchase our services. A major client in one year may not provide the same level of revenues for us in any subsequent year. The IT services we provide to our clients, and the revenues and net income from those services, may decline or vary as the type and quantity of IT services we provide change over time. Furthermore, our reliance on any individual client for a significant portion of our revenues may give that client a certain degree of pricing leverage against us when negotiating contracts and terms of service. 16 Table of Contents In addition, a number of factors other than our performance could cause the loss of or reduction in business or revenues from a client, and these factors are not predictable. For example, a client may decide to reduce spending on technology services or sourcing from us due to a challenging economic environment or other factors, both internal and external, relating to its business. These factors, among others, may include corporate restructuring, pricing pressure, changes to its outsourcing strategy, switching to another IT services provider or returning work in-house. The loss of any of our major clients, or a significant decrease in the volume of work they outsource to us or the price at which we sell our services to them, could materially adversely affect our revenues and thus our results of operations. Our revenues, operating results and profitability may experience significant variability and, as a result, it may be difficult to make accurate financial forecasts. Our revenues, operating results and profitability have varied in the past and are likely to vary in the future, which could make it difficult to make accurate financial forecasts. Factors that are likely to cause these variations include: the number, timing, scope and contractual terms of IT projects in which we are engaged; delays in project commencement or staffing delays due to difficulty in assigning appropriately skilled or experienced IT professionals; the accuracy of estimates of resources, time and fees required to complete fixed-price projects and costs incurred in the performance of each project; changes in pricing in response to client demand and competitive pressures; changes in the allocation of onsite and offshore staffing; the business decisions of our clients regarding the use of our services; the ability to further grow revenues from existing clients; the available leadership and senior technical resources compared to junior engineering resources staffed on each project; seasonal trends, primarily our hiring cycle and the budget and work cycles of our clients; delays or difficulties in expanding our operational facilities or infrastructure; the ratio of fixed-price contracts to time-and-materials contracts in process; employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases; unexpected changes in the utilization rate of our IT professionals; unanticipated contract or project terminations; the timing of collection of accounts receivable; the continuing financial stability of our clients; and general economic conditions. If we are unable to make accurate financial forecasts, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We do not have long-term commitments from our clients, and our clients may terminate contracts before completion or choose not to renew contracts. Our clients are generally not obligated for any long-term commitments to us. Although a substantial majority of our revenues are generated from repeated business, which we define as revenues from a client who also contributed to our revenues during the prior year, our engagements with our clients are typically for projects that are singular in nature. In addition, our clients can terminate many of our master services agreements and work orders with or without cause, and in most cases without any cancellation charge. Therefore, we must seek to obtain new engagements when our current engagements are successfully completed or are terminated as well as maintain relationships with existing clients and secure new clients to expand our business. There are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside of our control which might lead them to terminate a contract or project with us, including: financial difficulties for the client; a change in strategic priorities, resulting in elimination of the impetus for the project or a reduced level of technology spending; a change in outsourcing strategy resulting in moving more work to the clients in-house technology departments or to our competitors; the replacement by our clients of existing software with packaged software supported by licensors; and mergers and acquisitions or significant corporate restructurings. Failure to perform or observe any contractual obligations could result in cancellation or non-renewal of a contract, which could cause us to experience a higher than expected number of unassigned employees and an increase in our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues, until we are able to reduce or reallocate our headcount. The ability of our clients to terminate agreements makes our future revenues uncertain. We may not be able to replace any client that elects to terminate or not renew its contract with us, which could materially adversely affect our revenues and thus our results of operations. In addition, some of our agreements specify that if a change of control of our company occurs during the term of the agreement, the client has the right to terminate the agreement. If any future event triggers any change-of-control provision in our client contracts, these master services agreements may be terminated, which would result in loss of revenues. Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the United States and Europe. Worsening economic conditions or factors that negatively affect the economic health of the United States or Europe could reduce our revenues and thus adversely affect our results of operations. The recent crisis in the financial and credit markets in North America, Europe and Asia led to a global economic slowdown, with the economies of those regions showing significant signs of weakness. The IT services industry is particularly sensitive to the economic environment, and tends to decline during general economic downturns. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients in North America and Europe. If the North American or European economies further weaken or slow, pricing for our services may be depressed and our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. The current financial crisis in Europe (including concerns that certain European countries may default in payments due on their national debt) and the resulting economic uncertainty could adversely impact our operating results unless and until economic conditions in Europe improve and the prospects of national debt defaults in Europe decline. To the extent that these adverse economic conditions continue or worsen, they will likely continue to have a number of negative effects on our business. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions affecting the markets in which we operate, we may be unable to effectively plan for or respond to those changes, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain our resource utilization levels and productivity levels. Our profitability is significantly impacted by our utilization levels of fixed-cost resources, including human resources as well as other resources such as computers and office space, and our ability to increase our productivity levels. We have expanded our operations significantly in recent years through organic growth and strategic acquisitions, which has resulted in a significant increase in our headcount and fixed overhead costs. Some of our IT professionals are specially trained to work for specific clients or on specific projects and some of our offshore development centers are dedicated to specific clients or specific projects. Our ability to manage our utilization levels depends significantly on our ability to hire and train high-performing IT professionals and to staff projects appropriately and on the general economy and its effect on our clients and their business decisions regarding the use of our services. If we experience a slowdown or stoppage of work for any client or on any project for which we have dedicated IT professionals or facilities, we may not be able to efficiently reallocate these IT professionals and facilities to other clients and projects to keep their utilization and productivity levels high. If we are not able to maintain optimal resource utilization levels without corresponding cost reductions or price increases, our profitability will suffer. We face intense competition from onshore and offshore IT services companies, and increased competition, our inability to compete successfully against competitors, pricing pressures or loss of market share could materially adversely affect our business. The market for IT services is highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets are reputation and track record, industry expertise, breadth and depth of service offerings, quality of the services offered, language, marketing and selling skills, scalability of infrastructure, ability to address clients timing requirements and price. We face competition from offshore IT services providers in other outsourcing destinations with low wage costs such as India and China, as well as competition from large, global consulting and outsourcing firms and in-house IT departments of large corporations. Clients tend to engage multiple IT services providers instead of using an exclusive IT services provider, which could reduce our revenues to the extent that clients obtain services from other competing IT services providers. Clients may prefer IT services providers that have more locations or that are based in countries more cost-competitive or more stable than some CIS and CEE countries. Our ability to compete successfully also depends in part on a number of factors beyond our control, including the ability of our competitors to recruit, train, develop and retain highly-skilled IT professionals, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services and our competitors responsiveness to client needs. Some of our present and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, marketing or technical resources. Our current and potential competitors may also be able to respond more quickly to new technologies or processes and changes in client demands; may be able to devote greater resources towards the development, promotion and sale of their services than we can; and may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that increase their ability to address the needs of our clients. Client buying patterns can change if clients become more price sensitive and accepting of low-cost suppliers. Therefore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our clients while competing against such competitors. Increased competition, our inability to compete successfully, pricing pressures or loss of market share could materially adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents We are investing substantial cash in new facilities and physical infrastructure, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have made and continue to make significant contractual commitments related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our delivery centers, such as in Minsk, Belarus. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions will likely increase our fixed costs and if we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability may be reduced. Our revenues are highly dependent on a limited number of industries, and any decrease in demand for outsourced services in these industries could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. A substantial portion of our clients are concentrated in five specific industry verticals: ISVs and Technology, Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, Travel and Hospitality, and Retail and Consumer. Clients in ISVs and Technology accounted for 26.2%, 31.0%, and 38.5% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Clients in Banking and Financial Services accounted for 22.8%, 19.3%, and 11.4% of our revenues in 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our business growth largely depends on continued demand for our services from clients in these five industry verticals and other industries that we may target in the future, as well as on trends in these industries to outsource IT services. A downturn in any of our targeted industries, a slowdown or reversal of the trend to outsource IT services in any of these industries or the introduction of regulations that restrict or discourage companies from outsourcing could result in a decrease in the demand for our services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, a worsening of economic conditions in the financial services industry and significant consolidation in that industry may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Other developments in the industries in which we operate may also lead to a decline in the demand for our services in these industries, and we may not be able to successfully anticipate and prepare for any such changes. For example, consolidation in any of these industries or acquisitions, particularly involving our clients, may decrease the potential number of buyers of our services. Our clients may experience rapid changes in their prospects, substantial price competition and pressure on their profitability. This, in turn, may result in increasing pressure on us from clients in these key industries to lower our prices, which could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are not successful in managing increasingly large and complex projects, we may not achieve our financial goals and our results of operations could be adversely affected. To successfully market our service offerings and obtain larger and more complex projects, we need to establish close relationships with our clients and develop a thorough understanding of their operations. In addition, we may face a number of challenges managing larger and more complex projects, including: maintaining high-quality control and process execution standards; maintaining planned resource utilization rates on a consistent basis; maintaining productivity levels and implementing necessary process improvements; controlling costs; maintaining close client contact and high levels of client satisfaction; and maintaining effective client relationships. Our ability to successfully manage large and complex projects depends significantly on the skills of our management personnel and IT professionals, some of whom do not have experience managing large-scale or 20 Table of Contents complex projects. In addition, large and complex projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. Such cancellations or delays may make it difficult to plan our project resource requirements. If we fail to successfully obtain engagements for large and complex projects, we may not achieve our revenue growth and other financial goals. Even if we are successful in obtaining such engagements, a failure by us to effectively manage these large and complex projects could damage our reputation, cause us to lose business, impact our margins and adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we are unable to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, methodologies and evolving industry standards we may lose clients and our business could be materially adversely affected. Rapidly changing technologies, methodologies and evolving industry standards characterize the market for our services. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to anticipate developments in IT services, enhance our existing services and to develop and introduce new services to keep pace with such changes and developments and to meet changing client needs. The process of developing our client solutions is extremely complex and is expected to become increasingly complex and expensive in the future due to the introduction of new platforms, operating systems, technologies and methodologies. Our ability to keep up with technology, methodology and business changes is subject to a number of risks, including that: we may find it difficult or costly to update our services, applications, tools and software and to develop new services quickly enough to meet our clients needs; we may find it difficult or costly to make some features of our software work effectively and securely over the Internet or with new or changed operating systems; we may find it difficult or costly to update our software and services to keep pace with business, evolving industry standards, methodologies, regulatory and other developments in the industries where our clients operate; and we may find it difficult to maintain a high level of quality in implementing new technologies and methodologies. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these developments in a timely manner, or if we do respond, the services, technologies or methodologies we develop or implement may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, services, technologies or methodologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to enhance our existing services and to develop and introduce new services to promptly address the needs of our clients could cause us to lose clients and materially adversely affect our business. We face risks associated with having a long selling and implementation cycle for our services that require us to make significant resource commitments prior to realizing revenues for those services. We have a long selling cycle for our IT services, which requires significant investment of human resources and time by both our clients and us. Before committing to use our services, potential clients require us to expend substantial time and resources educating them on the value of our services and our ability to meet their requirements. Therefore, our selling cycle is subject to many risks and delays over which we have little or no control, including our clients decision to choose alternatives to our services (such as other IT services providers or in-house resources) and the timing of our clients budget cycles and approval processes. If our sales cycle unexpectedly lengthens for one or more large projects, it would negatively affect the timing of our revenues and hinder our revenues growth. For certain clients, we may begin work and incur costs prior to concluding the contract. A delay in our ability to obtain a signed agreement or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement, or to complete certain contract requirements in a particular quarter, could reduce our revenues in that quarter. Implementing our services also involves a significant commitment of resources over an extended period of time from both our clients and us. Our clients may experience delays in obtaining internal approvals or delays 21 Table of Contents associated with technology, thereby further delaying the implementation process. Our current and future clients may not be willing or able to invest the time and resources necessary to implement our services, and we may fail to close sales with potential clients to which we have devoted significant time and resources. Any significant failure to generate revenues or delays in recognizing revenues after incurring costs related to our sales or services process could materially adversely affect our business. We may not be able to recognize revenues in the period in which our services are performed, which may cause our margins to fluctuate. Our services are performed under both time-and-material and fixed-price contract arrangements. All revenues are recognized pursuant to applicable accounting standards. We recognize revenues when realized or realizable and earned, which is when the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. If there is an uncertainty about the project completion or receipt of payment for the services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty is sufficiently resolved. Additionally, we recognize revenues from fixed-price contracts based on the proportional performance method. In instances where final acceptance of the system or solution is specified by the client, revenues are deferred until all acceptance criteria have been met. In absence of a sufficient basis to measure progress towards completion, revenues are recognized upon receipt of final acceptance from the client. Our failure to meet all the acceptance criteria, or otherwise meet a clients expectations, may result in our having to record the cost related to the performance of services in the period that services were rendered, but delay the timing of revenue recognition to a future period in which all acceptance criteria have been met. If our pricing structures are based on inaccurate expectations and assumptions regarding the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate pricing terms with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could turn out to be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us. We face a number of risks when pricing our contracts, as many of our projects entail the coordination of operations and personnel in multiple locations with different skill sets and competencies. Our pricing and cost estimates for the work that we perform sometimes include anticipated long-term cost savings from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the contract. There is a risk that we will underprice our projects, particularly with fixed-price contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings, or unexpected risks we encounter in connection with the performance of this work, including those caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable. In addition, a number of our contracts contain pricing terms that condition a portion of the payment of fees by the client on our ability to meet defined performance goals, service levels and completion schedules set forth in the contracts. Our failure to meet such performance goals, service levels or completion schedules or our failure to meet client expectations in such contracts may result in less profitable or unprofitable engagements. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable pricing rates. Our profitability and operating results are dependent on the rates we are able to charge for our services. Our rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our clients perception of our ability to add value through our services; our competitors pricing policies; 22 Table of Contents bid practices of clients and their use of third-party advisors; the mix of onsite and offshore staffing; employee wage levels and increases in compensation costs, including timing of promotions and annual pay increases; our ability to charge premium prices when justified by market demand or the type of service; and general economic conditions. If we are not able to maintain favorable pricing for our services, our profitability could suffer. If we are unable to collect our receivables from, or bill our unbilled services to, our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain allowances against receivables. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and, as a result, we might need to adjust our allowances. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Weak macroeconomic conditions and related turmoil in the global financial system could also result in financial difficulties, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency, or bankruptcy for our clients, and, as a result, could cause clients to delay payments to us, request modifications to their payment arrangements that could increase our receivables balance, or default on their payment obligations to us. Timely collection of client balances also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and bill and collect our contracted revenues. If we are unable to meet our contractual requirements, we might experience delays in collection of and/or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Moreover, in the event of delays in payment from our governmental and quasi-governmental clients, we may have difficulty collecting on receivables owed. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to generate and retain business depends on our reputation in the marketplace. Our services are marketed to clients and prospective clients based on a number of factors. Since many of our specific client engagements involve unique services and solutions, our corporate reputation is a significant factor in our clients evaluation of whether to engage our services. We believe the EPAM brand name and our reputation are important corporate assets that help distinguish our services from those of our competitors and also contribute to our efforts to recruit and retain talented employees. However, our corporate reputation is potentially susceptible to damage by actions or statements made by current or former clients, competitors, vendors, adversaries in legal proceedings, government regulators, as well as members of the investment community and the media. There is a risk that negative information about our company, even if based on false rumor or misunderstanding, could adversely affect our business. In particular, damage to our reputation could be difficult and time-consuming to repair, could make potential or existing clients reluctant to select us for new engagements, resulting in a loss of business, and could adversely affect our recruitment and retention efforts. Damage to our reputation could also reduce the value and effectiveness of the EPAM brand name and could reduce investor confidence in us. We have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant stock-based compensation expenses which could adversely impact our net income. We have granted certain options under our stock incentive plans and entered into certain other stock-based compensation arrangements in the past, as a result of which we have recorded $2.9 million, $2.9 million and $2.4 million as stock-based compensation expenses for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 23 Table of Contents Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) prescribes how we account for stock-based compensation which could adversely or negatively impact our results of operations or the price of our common stock. GAAP requires us to recognize stock-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations generally based on the fair value of equity awards on the date of the grant, with compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may reduce the attractiveness of issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plan. However, if we do not grant equity awards, or if we reduce the number of equity awards we grant, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. If we grant more equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the expenses associated with such additional equity awards could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by several factors. We conduct business globally and file income tax returns in multiple jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be materially adversely affected by several factors, including changes in the amount of income taxed by or allocated to the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations and interpretations of such tax laws in multiple jurisdictions; and the resolution of issues arising from tax audits or examinations and any related interest or penalties. We report our results of operations based on our determination of the amount of taxes owed in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We have transfer pricing arrangements among our subsidiaries in relation to various aspects of our business, including operations, marketing, sales and delivery functions. U.S. transfer pricing regulations, as well as regulations applicable in CIS and CEE countries in which we operate, require that any international transaction involving associated enterprises be on arms-length terms. We consider the transactions among our subsidiaries to be on arms-length terms. The determination of our consolidated provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation, judgment and calculations where the ultimate tax determination may not be certain. Our determination of tax liability is always subject to review or examination by authorities in various jurisdictions. If a tax authority in any jurisdiction reviews any of our tax returns and proposes an adjustment, including as a result of a determination that the transfer prices and terms we have applied are not appropriate, such an adjustment could have a negative impact on our business. The U.S. Internal Revenue Service has recently concluded an examination of our federal income tax returns for the tax year ended December 31, 2008 with no changes, and the State of New Jersey Division of Taxation has begun an examination of our state returns for tax years ended December 31, 2007 through 2011. The results from these and other tax examinations and audits may differ from the liabilities recorded in our audited consolidated financial statements and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our earnings could be adversely affected if we change our intent not to repatriate earnings in the CIS and CEE or such earnings become subject to U.S. tax on a current basis. We do not accrue incremental U.S. taxes on all CIS and CEE earnings as these earnings (as well as other foreign earnings for all periods) are considered to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States. While we have no plans to do so, events may occur in the future that could effectively force us to change our intent not to repatriate our foreign earnings. If we change our intent and repatriate such earnings, we will have to accrue the applicable amount of taxes associated with such earnings and pay taxes at a substantially higher rate than our effective income tax rate in 2011. These increased taxes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents Our operating results may be negatively impacted by the loss of certain tax benefits provided by the governments of Belarus, Hungary and Russia to companies in our industry. Our subsidiary in Belarus is a member of the Belarus Hi-Tech Park, in which member technology companies are exempt or levied at a reduced rate on a variety of taxes, including a 100% exemption from Belarusian income tax (which as of the date of this annual report was 24% and an exemption from the value added tax, for a period of 15 consecutive years effective July 1, 2006. In addition, our subsidiary in Hungary benefits from a tax credit of 10% of qualified salaries, taken over a four-year period, for up to 70% of the total tax due for that period. We have been able to take the full 70% credit for 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Hungarian tax authorities repealed the tax credit beginning with 2012. Credits earned in years prior to 2012, however, will be allowed until fully utilized. We anticipate full utilization up to the 70% limit until 2014, with full phase out in 2015. Our subsidiary in Russia benefits from a substantially reduced rate on social contributions and an exemption on value added tax in certain circumstances, which is a benefit to qualified IT companies in Russia. If the tax holiday relating to our Belarusian subsidiary, the tax incentives relating to our Hungarian subsidiary or the lower tax rates and social contributions relating to our Russian subsidiary are changed, terminated, not extended or comparable new tax incentives are not introduced, we expect that our effective income tax rate and/or our operating expenses would increase significantly, which could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Income Statement Line Items Provision for Income Taxes. Our ability to expand our business and procure new contracts or enter into beneficial business arrangements could be affected by non-competition clauses in our agreements with existing clients. Some of our agreements with clients contain time-based restrictions on reassigning personnel from those clients accounts to the accounts of competitors of such clients. These clauses may restrict our ability to offer services to different clients in a specific industry or market. For example, we have agreed that, for periods ranging from six months to one year after the completion of either the services we have provided to certain clients or the termination of our service agreements with such clients, we will not assign any of our employees that have worked on services or projects for such clients to the development or distribution of any services or projects that compete directly or indirectly with the services or projects that we have provided such clients. Moreover, we may in the future enter into agreements with clients that restrict our ability to accept assignments from, or render similar services to, those clients customers, require us to obtain our clients prior written consent to provide services to their customers or restrict our ability to compete with our clients, or bid for or accept any assignment which our client is bidding for or is negotiating. These restrictions may hamper our ability to compete for and provide services to other clients in a specific industry in which we have expertise and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our agreement with one of our largest clients gives it the option to assume the operations of one of our offshore development centers, and the exercise of that option could result in a loss of future revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. During the four-year term of our agreement with one of our largest clients, which ends in December 2014 unless extended by the client, the client is entitled to request us to transfer to it or its designees all of the operating relationships, including employment relationships with the employees dedicated to the offshore development center and contracts with subcontractors, at a pre-determined transfer price dependent on the experience level of the transferred employee and the duration such employee worked on projects for the client. We are required to transfer assets that have already been financed by the client under our agreement, such as our offshore development center dedicated to the client, at a de minimis pre-agreed price. Since our client has already financed such assets, the carrying value of such assets is de minimis. In addition to the above amounts, the client is also required to pay a negotiated value or book value for the assets to be transferred that have not already been financed by the client. This client accounted for 6.3% and 2.9% of our revenues in 2011 and 2010, respectively. In addition, under our agreement, the client has the right to step in and take over all or part of the offshore 25 Table of Contents development center in certain instances, including if we are in material default under certain provisions of our agreement, such as those related to the level or quality of our services, or the client has determined it is otherwise obliged to do so in emergencies or for regulatory reasons. In the event the client takes over any services we provide under our agreement, it will not be obligated to pay us for the provision of those services. If the client exercises these rights, we would lose future revenues related to the services we provide to the client, as well as lose some of our assets and key employees, and our losses may not be fully covered by the contractual payment, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Undetected software design defects, errors or failures may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our services or in liabilities that could materially adversely affect our business. Our software development solutions involve a high degree of technological complexity and have unique specifications and could contain design defects or software errors that are difficult to detect and correct. Errors or defects may result in the loss of current clients and loss of, or delay in, revenues, loss of market share, loss of client data, a failure to attract new clients or achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources and increased support or service costs. We cannot assure you that, despite testing by us and our clients, errors will not be found in new software product development solutions, which could result in litigation and other claims for damages against us and thus could materially adversely affect our business. Disruptions in internet infrastructure, telecommunications or significant failure in our IT systems could harm our service model, which could result in a reduction of our revenue. Part of our service model is to maintain active voice and data communications, financial control, accounting, customer service and other data processing systems between our clients offices, our delivery centers and our client management locations (including our headquarters in Newtown, PA). Our business activities may be materially disrupted in the event of a partial or complete failure of any of these internet, IT or communication systems, which could be caused by, among other things, software malfunction, computer virus attacks, conversion errors due to system upgrading, damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, demands placed on internet infrastructure by growing numbers of users and time spent online or increased bandwidth requirements or other events beyond our control. Loss of all or part of the infrastructure or systems for a period of time could hinder our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time which, in turn, could lead to a reduction of our revenue or otherwise materially adversely affect our business and business reputation. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to security risks that could disrupt our services and cause us to incur losses or liabilities that could adversely affect our business. Our computer networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, worms, malicious applications and other security problems caused by unauthorized access to, or improper use of, systems by third parties or employees. A hacker who circumvents security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations. Although we intend to continue to implement security measures, computer attacks or disruptions may jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through our computer systems. Actual or perceived concerns that our systems may be vulnerable to such attacks or disruptions may deter our clients from using our solutions or services. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. Data networks are also vulnerable to attacks, unauthorized access and disruptions. For example, in a number of public networks, hackers have bypassed firewalls and misappropriated confidential information, including personally identifiable information. It is possible that, despite existing safeguards, an employee could misappropriate our clients proprietary information or data, exposing us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Losses or liabilities that are incurred as a result of any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business. 26 Table of Contents If we cause disruptions to our clients businesses or provide inadequate service, our clients may have claims for substantial damages against us, which could cause us to lose clients, have a negative effect on our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. If our IT professionals make errors in the course of delivering services to our clients or fail to consistently meet service requirements of a client, these errors or failures could disrupt the clients business, which could result in a reduction in our revenues or a claim for substantial damages against us. In addition, a failure or inability to meet a contractual requirement could seriously damage our reputation and affect our ability to attract new business. The services we provide are often critical to our clients businesses. Certain of our client contracts require us to comply with security obligations including maintaining network security and backup data, ensuring our network is virus-free, maintaining business continuity planning procedures, and verifying the integrity of employees that work with our clients by conducting background checks. Any failure in a clients system or breach of security relating to the services we provide to the client could damage our reputation or result in a claim for substantial damages against us. Any significant failure of our equipment or systems, or any major disruption to basic infrastructure like power and telecommunications in the locations in which we operate, could impede our ability to provide services to our clients, have a negative impact on our reputation, cause us to lose clients, and adversely affect our results of operations. Under our contracts with our clients, our liability for breach of our obligations is in some cases limited pursuant to the terms of the contract. Such limitations may be unenforceable or otherwise may not protect us from liability for damages. In addition, certain liabilities, such as claims of third parties for which we may be required to indemnify our clients, are generally not limited under our contracts. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us in amounts greater than those covered by our current insurance policies could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if such assertions against us are unsuccessful, we may incur reputational harm and substantial legal fees. Our subcontracting practices may expose us to technical uncertainties, potential liabilities and reputational harm. In order to meet our personnel needs, increase workforce flexibility, and improve pricing competitiveness, we use subcontractors and freelancers primarily to perform short-term assignments in certain specialty areas or on other projects where it is impractical to use our employees, or where we need to supplement our resources. We also use subcontractors for internal assignments, such as assisting in development of internal systems, recruiting, training, human resources consulting and administration, and other similar support functions. Despite certain advantages of subcontracting, such arrangements also give rise to a number of risks. Although we try to source competent and credible third parties as our subcontractors, they may not be able to deliver the level of service that our clients expect us to deliver. Furthermore, we enter into confidentiality agreements with our subcontractors, but we cannot guarantee that they will not breach the confidentiality of us or our clients and misappropriate our or our clients proprietary information and technology in the course of providing service. We, as the party to the contract with the client, are directly responsible for the losses our subcontractors cause our clients. Under the subcontracting agreements we enter into, our subcontractors generally promise to indemnify us for damages caused by their breach, but we may be unable to collect under these agreements. Moreover, their breaches may damage our reputation, cause us to lose existing business and adversely affect our ability to acquire new business in the future. There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of our IT professionals or the exempt status of our employees is successfully challenged. Some of our IT professionals are retained as independent contractors. Although we believe that we have properly classified these individuals as independent contractors, there is nevertheless a risk that the IRS or another federal, state, provincial or foreign authority will take a different view. Furthermore, the tests governing 27 Table of Contents the determination of whether an individual is considered to be an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact sensitive and vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Laws and regulations that govern the status and misclassification of independent contractors are subject to change or interpretation by various authorities. If a federal, state, provincial or foreign authority or court enacts legislation or adopts regulations that change the manner in which employees and independent contractors are classified or makes any adverse determination with respect to some or all of our independent contractors, we could incur significant costs under such laws and regulations, including for prior periods, in respect of tax withholding, social security taxes or payments, workers compensation and unemployment contributions, and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There is also a risk that we may be subject to significant monetary liabilities arising from fines or judgments as a result of any such actual or alleged non-compliance with federal, state, provincial or foreign tax laws. Further, if it were determined that any of our independent contractors should be treated as employees, we could possibly incur additional liabilities under our applicable employee benefit plans. In addition, we have classified all of our U.S. employees as exempt under the Federal Labor Standards Act, or the FLSA. If it were determined that any of our U.S. employees should be classified as non-exempt under the FLSA, we may incur costs and liabilities for back wages, unpaid overtime, fines or penalties and/or be subject to employee litigation. Our insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us against losses. Although we maintain some insurance coverage, including professional liability insurance, property insurance coverage for certain of our facilities and equipment and business interruption insurance coverage for certain of our operations, we do not insure for all risks in our operations. If any claims for injury are brought against us, or if we experience any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster, we might incur substantial costs and diversion of resources. Most of the agreements we have entered into with our clients require us to purchase and maintain specified insurance coverage during the terms of the agreements, including commercial general insurance or public liability insurance, umbrella insurance, product liability insurance, and workers compensation insurance. Some of these types of insurance are not available on reasonable terms or at all in CIS and CEE countries. Although to date no client has brought any claims against us for such failure, our clients have the right to terminate these agreements as a result of such failure. Our business could be negatively affected if we incur legal liability, including with respect to our indemnification obligations, in connection with providing our solutions and services. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations or otherwise breach obligations to our clients, we could be subject to legal liability. We may enter into non-standard agreements because we perceive an important economic opportunity or because our personnel did not adequately adhere to our guidelines. In addition, the contracting practices of our competitors may cause contract terms and conditions that are unfavorable to us to become standard in the marketplace. If we cannot or do not perform our obligations, we could face legal liability and our contracts might not always protect us adequately through limitations on the scope and/or amount of our potential liability. If we cannot, or do not, meet our contractual obligations to provide solutions and services, and if our exposure is not adequately limited through the terms of our agreements, we might face significant legal liability and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the normal course of business and in conjunction with certain client engagements, we have entered into contractual arrangements through which we may be obligated to indemnify clients or other parties with whom we conduct business with respect to certain matters. These arrangements can include provisions whereby we agree to defend and hold the indemnified party and certain of their affiliates harmless with respect to claims related to matters including our breach of certain representations, warranties or covenants, or out of our intellectual 28 Table of Contents property infringement, our gross negligence or willful misconduct, and certain other claims. Payments by us under any of these arrangements are generally conditioned on the client making a claim and providing us with full control over the defense and settlement of such claim. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement, and any claims under these agreements may not be subject to liability limits or exclusion of consequential, indirect or punitive damages. Historically, we have not made payments under these indemnification agreements so they have not had any impact on our operating results, financial position, or cash flows. However, if events arise requiring us to make payment for indemnification claims under our indemnification obligations in contracts we have entered, such payments could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by a violation of intellectual property rights, the disclosure of other confidential information, including personally identifiable information, system failures, errors or unsatisfactory performance of services, and our insurance policies may not be sufficient to cover these damages. We often have access to, and are required to collect and store, sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information. Some of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality, infringement indemnity and certain other matters. Furthermore, breaches of confidentiality may entitle the aggrieved party to equitable remedies, including injunctive relief. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. The protection of the intellectual property rights and other confidential information or personally identifiable information of our clients is particularly important for us since our operations are mainly based in CIS and CEE countries. CIS and CEE countries have not traditionally enforced intellectual property protection to the same extent as countries such as the United States. Despite measures we take to protect the intellectual property and other confidential information or personally identifiable information of our clients, unauthorized parties, including our employees and subcontractors, may attempt to misappropriate certain intellectual property rights that are proprietary to our clients or otherwise breach our clients confidences. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client information, including personally identifiable information, or a violation of intellectual property rights, whether through employee misconduct, breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, may subject us to liabilities, damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients businesses and provide benefits to our clients that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a clients system or any breach of security could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Furthermore, any errors by our employees in the performance of services for a client, or poor execution of such services, could result in a client terminating our engagement and seeking damages from us. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, these limitations on liability may not apply in all circumstances, may be unenforceable in some cases, or may be insufficient to protect us from liability for damages. There may be instances when liabilities for damages are greater than the insurance coverage we hold and we will have to internalize those losses, damages and liabilities not covered by our insurance. We may not be able to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to protect our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 31, 2011, we had registered intellectual property consisting of 13 U.S. trademarks, 4 non-U.S. trademarks, 1 Russian 29 Table of Contents copyright and 77 active domain names. Implementation of intellectual property-related laws in CIS and CEE countries has historically been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, protection of intellectual property rights and confidentiality in CIS and CEE countries may not be as effective as that in the United States or other countries. To protect our and our clients proprietary information and other intellectual property, we require our employees, independent contractors, vendors and clients to enter into written confidentiality agreements with us. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection for trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure of such trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to prevent the misappropriation of our and our clients proprietary technology. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our and our clients proprietary technologies, tools and applications could enable third parties to benefit from our or our clients technologies, tools and applications without paying us for doing so, and our clients may hold us liable for that act and seek damages and compensation from us, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on our trademarks, trade names, service marks and brand names to distinguish our services and solutions from the services of our competitors, and have registered or applied to register several of these trademarks. We cannot assure you that our trademark applications will be approved. Third parties may oppose our trademark applications, or otherwise challenge our use of our trademarks. For instance, in 2005, we entered into a Consent of Use and Settlement Agreement that allowed a third party to use the mark ePAM (as capitalized in the foregoing) and restricted our ability to do so. For more information see Item 1. Business Intellectual Property. In the event that our trademarks are successfully challenged, we could be forced to rebrand our services and solutions, which could result in loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Further, we cannot assure you that competitors will not infringe our trademarks, or that we will have adequate resources to enforce our trademarks. We may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. Litigation relating to our intellectual property may not prove successful and might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, we rely on certain third-party software to conduct our business. If we lose the licenses which permit us to use such software, they may be difficult to replace and it may be costly to do so. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be time-consuming and costly to defend. If we fail to defend ourselves against such claims, we may lose significant intellectual property rights and may be unable to continue providing our existing services. Our success largely depends on our ability to use and develop our technology, tools, code, methodologies and services without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets and trademarks. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights of third parties. We typically indemnify clients who purchase our services and solutions against potential infringement of intellectual property rights, which subjects us to the risk of indemnification claims. These claims may require us to initiate or defend protracted and costly litigation on behalf of our clients, regardless of the merits of these claims and are often not subject to liability limits or exclusion of consequential, indirect or punitive damages. If any of these claims succeed, we may be forced to pay damages on behalf of our clients, redesign or cease offering our allegedly infringing services or solutions, or obtain licenses for the intellectual property such services or solutions allegedly infringe. If we cannot obtain all necessary licenses on commercially reasonable terms, our clients may be forced to stop using our services or solutions. The holders of patents and other intellectual property rights potentially relevant to our service offerings may make it difficult for us to acquire a license on commercially acceptable terms. Also, we may be unaware of 30 Table of Contents intellectual property registrations or applications relating to our services that may give rise to potential infringement claims against us. There may also be technologies licensed to and relied on by us that are subject to infringement or other corresponding allegations or claims by third parties which may damage our ability to rely on such technologies. Further, our current and former employees and/or subcontractors could challenge our exclusive rights in the software they have developed in the course of their employment. In Russia and certain other countries in which we operate, an employer is deemed to own the copyright in works created by its employees during the course, and within the scope, of their employment, but the employer may be required to satisfy additional legal requirements in order to make further use and dispose of such works. While we believe that we have complied with all such requirements, and have fulfilled all requirements necessary to acquire all rights in software developed by our independent contractors and/or subcontractors, these requirements are often ambiguously defined and enforced. As a result, we cannot assure that we would be successful in defending against any claim by our current or former employees, independent contractors and/or subcontractors challenging our exclusive rights over the use and transfer of works those employees, independent contractors and/or subcontractors created or requesting additional compensation for such works. We are subject to additional risks as a result of our recent and possible future acquisitions and the hiring of new employees who may misappropriate intellectual property from their former employers. The developers of the technology that we have acquired or may acquire may not have appropriately created, maintained or enforced intellectual property rights in such technology. Indemnification and other rights under acquisition documents may be limited in term and scope and may therefore provide little or no protection from these risks. Parties making infringement claims may be able to obtain an injunction to prevent us from delivering our services or using technology involving the allegedly infringing intellectual property. Intellectual property litigation is expensive and time-consuming and could divert managements attention from our business. A successful infringement claim against us, whether with or without merit, could, among others things, require us to pay substantial damages, develop non-infringing technology, or rebrand our name or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and would require us to cease making, licensing or using products that have infringed a third partys intellectual property rights. Protracted litigation could also result in existing or potential clients deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our software product development services or solutions until resolution of such litigation, or could require us to indemnify our clients against infringement claims in certain instances. Any intellectual property claim or litigation in this area, whether we ultimately win or lose, could damage our reputation and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violations or unfavorable interpretation by authorities of these regulations could harm our business. Because we provide IT services to clients throughout the world, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal rules on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy and labor relations, particularly in the CIS and CEE countries in which we operate. Our systems and operations are located almost entirely in the CIS and CEE and laws and regulations that are applicable to us, but not to our competitors, may impede our ability to develop and offer services that compete effectively with those offered by our non-CIS or -CEE based competitors and generally available worldwide. Violations of these laws or regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, damage to our reputation and other unintended consequences such as liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. Our failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate concerning our operations, including export restrictions, U.S. economic sanctions and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery laws. If we are not in compliance with applicable legal requirements, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Our operations are subject to laws and regulations restricting our operations, including activities involving restricted countries, organizations, entities and persons that have been identified as unlawful actors or that are subject to U.S. sanctions imposed by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, or other international economic sanctions that prohibit us from engaging in trade or financial transactions with certain countries, businesses, organizations and individuals. We are subject to the FCPA, which prohibits U.S. companies and their intermediaries from bribing foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or keeping business or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment, and other laws concerning our international operations. The FCPAs foreign counterparts contain similar prohibitions, although varying in both scope and jurisdiction. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree, and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We have recently developed and are in the process of implementing formal