Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Executive Summary We are a leading global IT services provider focused on complex software product development services, software engineering and vertically-oriented custom development solutions. Since our inception in 1993, we have been serving independent software vendors, or ISVs, and technology companies. The foundation we have built serving ISVs and technology companies has enabled us to differentiate ourselves in the market for software engineering skills and technology capabilities. Our work with these clients exposes us to their customers challenges across a variety of industry verticals. This has enabled us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise and grow our business in multiple industry verticals, including Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Travel and Consumer. We have client management locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Russia, Switzerland and Kazakhstan. Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe and the Commonwealth of Independent States (the CIS). Our delivery centers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan and Poland are strategically located in centers of software engineering talent and educational excellence across Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) and the CIS. The majority of our employees are located in these delivery centers with compensation and benefits related to this pool of resources being the primary component of our operating expenses. Additionally, our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, such as computers and office space, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage efficiency of our global operations by maintaining adequate resource utilization levels and implementing company-wide cost-management programs. As a result, we have managed to create a relatively homogeneous delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients across all geographies, thereby further strengthening our relationships with them. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 91.9% and 82.0% of our revenues in 2012 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. Recent developments On April 24, 2013, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 under the Securities Act of 1933. Under the registration statement, we may offer and sell (i) common stock, (ii) preferred stock and (iii) debt securities, which may be senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities. The aggregate offering price of all securities sold by us under this registration statement will not exceed $50.0 million. In addition, our selling stockholders named in the registration statement may offer and sell up to 17,939,673 shares of common stock. We will not receive any proceeds from the sale of our common stock by the selling stockholders. The registration statement was declared effective on May 7, 2013. 16 Table of Contents Change in Presentation of Certain Financial Information As part of our discussion and analysis, we analyze revenues by vertical. The composition and organization of our verticals is fluid and the structure changes regularly in response to overall growth, new business acquisitions and changes in reporting structure. Prior to the third quarter of 2012, certain individually insignificant customers pertaining to acquired operations were aggregated for the purposes of presenting revenue by vertical. Effective third quarter of 2012, we have individually reassigned these customers to corresponding verticals. We believe this change is preferable as it allows us to more effectively analyze our verticals by aligning presentation of existing and acquired customers using a standardized approach. These changes do not result in any adjustments to our previously issued financial statements and were applied retrospectively, as presented in the table below. Additionally, we have revised our disclosures to present Travel and Hospitality and Retail and Consumer verticals as a single Travel and Consumer vertical. Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 As Previously Reported After Reclassification (in thousands, except percentages) Vertical ISVs and Technology $ 24,100 25.5 % $ 23,445 24.8 % Banking and Financial Services 22,567 23.9 22,305 23.6 Travel and Consumer 23,879 25.3 23,830 25.2 Business Information and Media 15,453 16.4 16,233 17.2 Other verticals 7,297 7.7 7,483 8.0 Reimbursable expenses and other revenues 1,087 1.2 1,087 1.2 Revenues $ 94,383 100.0 % $ 94,383 100.0 % Summary of Results of Operations and Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following tables present a summary of our results of operations for the first quarter of 2013 and 2012: Three Months Ended March 31, Increase 2013 2012 Dollars Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 124,198 $ 94,383 $ 29,815 31.6 % Income from operations $ 15,536 $ 13,784 $ 1,752 12.7 % Net income $ 12,680 $ 12,099 $ 581 4.8 % The key drivers of our consolidated results in the first quarter of 2013 as compared to the first quarter of 2012 were as follows: Broad-based revenue growth from clients in most of our key verticals, and in particular within Banking and Financial Services, which grew $10.2 million, or 45.9%, and ISVs and Technology, which increased revenues by $8.8 million, or 37.5%, in first quarter 2013 as compared to the same period of 2012, respectively; Continued penetration to the European market where we experienced revenue growth of $8.3 million, or 23.5%, in the first quarter of 2013 from $35.3 million revenues generated during the first quarter of 2012; Strong revenue contribution from our top clients. Revenues attributable to our top ten clients during the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased by $6.7 million as compared to the same period of 2012 as we continued to leverage long-term relationships to generate repeat revenue and expand existing revenue streams; Completion of a strategic acquisitions of Thoughtcorp, Inc. (Thoughtcorp) in May 2012 and Empathy Lab, LLC (Empathy Lab) in December 2012, which added $8.3 million in revenues during the first quarter of 2013; $1.0 million of additional stock-based compensation related to our acquisitions, as compared to the first quarter of 2012, and $0.7 million of incremental public company costs incurred in the first quarter of 2013; and Increase in our effective tax rate, which grew from 15.6% in the first quarter of 2012 to 19.1% in the first quarter of 2013 causing a $0.5 million decrease in net income for the three months ended March 31, 2013. The operating results in any period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. 17 Table of Contents In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, we discuss the following key measures that are not calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP): Income from operations, as reported on our consolidated and condensed statements of income and comprehensive income, excluding certain expenses and benefits, which we refer to as non-GAAP income from operations. The second measure calculates non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of reported revenues, which we refer to as non-GAAP operating margin. We believe that these non-GAAP measures help illustrate underlying trends in our business, and we use these measures to establish budgets and operational goals (communicated internally and externally), manage our business, and evaluate our performance. We also believe these measures help investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods and compare our operating results with those of similar companies. We exclude certain expenses and benefits from non-GAAP income from operations that we believe are not reflective of these underlying business trends and are not useful measures in determining our operational performance and overall business strategy. Because our reported non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated according to GAAP, these measures are not comparable to GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly described non-GAAP measures reported by other companies within our industry. Consequently, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be evaluated in isolation from or supplant comparable GAAP measures, but, rather, should be considered together with our consolidated and condensed financial statements, which are prepared according to GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations as reported on our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income to non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP income from operations $ 15,536 $ 13,784 Stock-based compensation 2,576 1,550 One-time charges 584 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 699 140 Acquisition-related costs 38 80 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 18,849 $ 16,138 GAAP Operating margin 12.5 % 14.6 % Effect of the adjustments detailed above 2.7 2.5 Non-GAAP Operating margin 15.2 % 17.1 % From time to time we acquire businesses and incur operating expenses which we would not otherwise have incurred. Such expenses include acquisition-related costs and amortization of acquired intangible assets. These costs are dependent on a number of factors and are generally inconsistent in amount and frequency, as well as significantly impacted by the timing and size of related acquisitions. Additionally, the size, complexity and volume of past acquisitions, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related costs, may not be indicative of the size, complexity and volume of future transactions. Amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded from our non-GAAP measures to allow management to evaluate our operating results as if these assets have been developed internally rather than acquired in a business combination. We believe this approach provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the acquired intangible assets are treated in a manner comparable to the internally developed assets. Expenses related to stock-based compensation are generally non-controllable due to the timing, size and nature of the awards granted, as well as other factors beyond our control, such as the price and volatility of our stock. Because of the difference in valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types, we believe that the exclusion of stock-based compensation expense allows for a more accurate comparison of our operating results among the periods, as well as enhances comparability with operating results of peer companies. We also exclude certain other expenses and one-time charges because we believe they are not indicative of what we consider to be organic, continuing operations. Such items include goodwill impairment write-offs, legal settlement expenses and certain other non-cash one-time charges. See our Results of Operations section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis for a more detailed discussion and analysis of these charges. We have significant international operations, and we earn revenues and incur expenses in multiple currencies. When important to managements analysis, operating results are compared in constant currency terms, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The effect of rate fluctuations is excluded by translating the current periods revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates of the prior period of comparison. See Item 3,