Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks and uncertainties and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may materially and adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. 1 PART I Item 1. Business Company Background EPAM delivers end-to-end value to its customers by combining its core engineering and technology capabilities with business and experience consulting. We support our customers in a market that is constantly challenged by the pressures of digitization through our innovative and scalable software solutions, high quality business consulting and experience design, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities. We focus on building long-term partnerships with our customers, enabling them to reimagine their businesses through a digital lens. Our historical core competency, software development and product engineering services, combined with our work with global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies, created our foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have expanded our geographic reach and service capabilities to include digital strategy and design, consulting and test automation and we expect our strategic acquisitions will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our customers from a wide variety of locations. Business Strategy Our service offerings continuously evolve to provide more customized and integrated solutions to our customers where we combine best-in-class software engineering with customer experience design, business consulting and technology innovation services. We are continually expanding our service capabilities, moving beyond traditional services into business consulting, design and physical product development and areas such as artificial intelligence, robotics and virtual reality. EPAMs key service offerings and solutions include the following practice areas: Engineering Our engineering foundation underpins how we architect, build and scale next-generation software solutions and agile delivery teams. Our engineering expertise allows us to build enterprise technologies that improve business processes, offer smarter analytics and result in greater operational excellence through requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our customers chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality in order to address the needs of the customers users and customers. We address our customers increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures through our infrastructure management services. These solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as monitoring, incident notification and resolution. We deliver maintenance and support services through our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. We have deep expertise and the ability to offer a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Operations We turn our customers operations into intelligent enterprise hubs with our proprietary platforms, integrated engineering practices and smart automation. Developing a digital experience or product from end-to-end requires input and expertise from a variety of professionals with a broad range of skills. Our multidisciplinary teams and global delivery framework come together to deliver well-rounded technology solutions that bring a competitive advantage to our customers. In addition to utilizing our dedicated delivery centers, which allow us to deploy key delivery talent, we work closely with leading companies in various industries to enable our customers to better leverage technology and address the simultaneous pressures of driving value for their consumer and offering a more engaging experience. 2 Table of Contents Optimization We turn process optimization into real transformation by using process automation and cognitive techniques to transform legacy processes and deliver streamlined operations that increase revenues and reduce costs for our customers. We rely on our teams, methodologies and tools to optimize every stage of software delivery for improved quality and better features with each release. We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals, who perform software application testing, test management, automation and consulting services focused on helping customers improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. We employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools and frameworks to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services that identify threats and close loopholes to protect our customers business systems from information loss. Consulting Over the years, as a complement to our core engineering skills, we have added capabilities in business consulting to give us an agile, hybrid approach to the market. Our consulting services drive deeper relationships as we help our customers with larger and more complex challenges. Our industry, technology and experience consulting services are interconnected to deliver maximum impact for our customers. The functional business expertise of our professionals is supplemented by a thorough understanding of technology platforms and their interactions as well as application of data science and machine learning to deliver our best insights into our customers business. Our technical advisory services help customers stay ahead of current technology changes and innovate, where innovation beyond technology is also delivered through collaborative workshops, challenges and new organizational models. Design We apply design thinking to digital and service strategy, user experience and the product lifecycle with a focus on innovative design ideas and product development. Our digital and service design practice provides strategy, design, creative and program management services for customers looking to improve the user experience. We are continuously looking to strengthen and grow our design and consulting practices as evidenced by our 2018 strategic acquisitions of Continuum Innovation LLC, which enhances our consulting, physical design and product development capabilities, and Think Limited, which enhances our global product and design offerings. Industry Expertise Strong industry-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our customers, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. Our customers operate in five main industry verticals as well as a number of other verticals in which we are increasing our presence. Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global investment banks, commercial and retail lending institutions, credit card and payment solution companies, wealth management institutions, fund operators, insurance companies and various other providers of financial services. We assist these customers with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, customer-based needs and risk management. Our financial services domain experts have been recognized with industry awards for engineering and deploying unique applications and business solutions that facilitate growth, competitiveness, and customer loyalty while driving cost efficiency for global financial institutions. Travel and Consumer. Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to serve their customers, capture management efficiencies, control operating expenses and grow revenues. Some of the worlds leading airlines, hotel providers and travel agencies rely on our knowledge in creating high-quality tools for operating and managing their business. Within this vertical, we also serve global, regional and local retailers, online retail brands, consumer goods manufacturers, distributors, and online marketplaces. We deliver a wide range of services to retail and eCommerce customers from complex system modernizations to leading edge innovations in multi-channel sales and distribution. We have transformed organizations to use technology to expand and revolutionize their business models. Our services directly impact the consumer experience of our customers brands, and allow our customers to reach more consumers. 3 Table of Contents Software and Hi-Tech. We provide complex software product development services to meet software and technology companies constant need for innovation and agility. We help some of the most prominent software brands in the world build, what we believe to be, the best software. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech research and development, software engineering and integration, we have developed proprietary internal processes, methodologies and information technology infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving customers in the Hi-Tech and Software Product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Business Information and Media. We help our business information and media customers build products and solutions for all modern platforms including web media streaming and mobile information delivery. Our solutions help customers develop new revenue sources, accelerate the creation, collection, packaging and management of content and reach broader audiences. We serve varied customers in this vertical including search engine providers, entertainment media, news providers, broadcasting companies, financial information providers, content distributors, knowledge management organizations and advertising networks. Life Sciences and Healthcare. In the Life Sciences category, we partner with global pharmaceutical, medical technology and biotechnology companies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. Our personnel in Life Sciences leverage their vast technology expertise to offer deep scientific and mathematical knowledge to broad-based initiatives. Our Life Sciences solutions enable customers to speed research and accelerate time-to-market while improving collaboration, knowledge management and operational excellence. We help our customers in the Healthcare industry respond to changing regulatory environments and improve the quality of care while managing the cost of care. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, development and managed services to customers ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. Emerging Verticals. We also serve the diverse technology needs of customers in the energy, telecommunications, automotive and manufacturing industries, as well as government customers. These customers are included in our Emerging Verticals, which are further discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this annual report. Customers We maintain a geographically diverse client base in multiple industries. Our focus on delivering quality service is reflected in established relationships with many of our customers, with 55.9% and 29.5% of our revenues in 2019 coming from customers that had used our services for at least five and ten years, respectively. Our sustained growth and increased capabilities are furthered by both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. As we remain committed to diversifying our client base and adding more customers to our client mix, we expect revenue concentration from our top customers to continue to decrease over the long-term. The following table shows revenues from the top five and ten customers in the respective year as a percentage of revenues for that year: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, 2019 2018 2017 Top five customers 19.9 % 22.3 % 24.0 % Top ten customers 29.1 % 31.6 % 33.9 % See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to revenues. See Note 15 Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding long-lived assets and customer revenues by geographic location as well as financial information related to our reportable segments. 4 Table of Contents Global Delivery Model We believe the development of a robust global delivery model creates a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better understand and meet our customers diverse needs and to provide a compelling value proposition. We continuously grow our delivery platform both organically and through strategically acquired locations and personnel with diversified skills that support our strategy. We had 32,561 delivery personnel as of December 31, 2019 , which mainly includes our core information technology professionals as well as designers, consultants and scientists. We serve our customers through on-site, off-site and offshore locations across the world and use strategically located delivery centers to offer a strong, diversified and cost-effective delivery platform. Our largest delivery centers are located in Belarus, Ukraine and Russia. As of December 31, 2019 , we had 9,314 delivery professionals located in Belarus. The majority of these delivery professionals are located in Minsk, the capital of Belarus, which is well-positioned to serve as a prime IT outsourcing destination given its strong industrial base and established educational infrastructure. Furthermore, the government in Belarus strongly supports the technology industry and encourages investment in this sector through various long-term tax incentives. Our locations in Ukraine and Russia offer many of the same benefits as Belarus, including educational infrastructure, availability of qualified software engineers and government support of the technology industry. As of December 31, 2019 , we had 7,478 delivery professionals in Ukraine and 5,394 delivery professionals in Russia. Our delivery model has not been materially affected by the political and economic uncertainty in Ukraine and Russia to date. Our other significant locations with delivery professionals are the United States with 2,236 , Poland with 1,513 , Hungary with 1,498 , India with 1,476 , China with 562 and Mexico with 540 as of December 31, 2019 . Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services through our senior management, sales and business development teams, account managers, and professional staff. Our client service professionals and account managers, who maintain direct customer relationships, play an integral role in engaging with current customers to identify and pursue potential business opportunities. This strategy has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing client base and we believe that our reputation as a reliable provider of software engineering solutions drives additional business from inbound requests and referrals. In addition to effective client management, our sales model also utilizes an integrated sales and marketing approach that leverages a dedicated sales team to identify and acquire new accounts. We maintain a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events as well as sponsorship of programming competitions. We have been recognized by many top global independent research agencies, such as Forrester, Gartner, Zinnov and HFS and by publications such as Forbes and Fortune. Employees Our employees are a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and serve our customers, therefore the ability to hire and retain highly-skilled information technology professionals is critical to our success. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our customers. To attract, retain and motivate our delivery professionals, we offer a challenging work environment, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement, and promotion opportunities thus providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. We believe that we maintain a good working relationship with our employees and our employees have not entered into any collective bargaining agreements (other than broad industry-wide agreements as required in Mexico and certain countries in Europe) or engaged in any labor disputes. In our competitive industry, it is critical that we effectively deploy the necessary personnel and utilization practices to satisfy the demands of our customers. We have dedicated full-time employees who oversee all aspects of our human capital management process including professional talent acquisition teams whose objective is to locate and attract qualified and experienced professionals around the world. We are continuously exploring new markets as sources of talent. As our business grows, we also focus on hiring and retaining individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, human resources and other key management positions. At December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we had a total of 36,739 , 30,156 and 25,962 employees, respectively. Of these employees, as of December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively, 32,561 , 26,760 and 22,998 were delivery professionals. 5 Table of Contents We dedicate significant resources to the training, continuing education and career development programs of our entry-level and experienced delivery professionals. We believe in the importance of supporting educational initiatives and we sponsor employees participation in internal and external training and certifications. Entry-level personnel undergo a rigorous training program that consists of approximately three to six months of classroom training, as well as numerous hours of hands-on training through actual engagements. This comprehensive program results in employees who are highly proficient and possess deep technical expertise that enables them to immediately serve our customers needs. For our mid-level and senior delivery professionals, we offer continuing education programs aimed at helping them advance in their careers. We also provide mentoring opportunities, management and soft skills training, intensive workshops and management and technical advancement programs in order to support the development of middle and senior management through formal leadership training, evaluation, development and promotion. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from both global technology solutions providers as well as those based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as Eastern Europe, India and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, a reputation for and a track record of high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to customers business needs, scale, financial stability and price. We face competition from various technology services providers such as Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, Exlservice, Genpact, GlobalLogic, Globant, HCL Technologies, HP Enterprise, IBM Services, Infosys, Mindtree, Perficient, Tata Consultancy Services, Virtusa Corporation, and Wipro, among others. Additionally, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. We believe that our focus on complex and innovative software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and our development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. Quality Management and Information Security We are continuously investing in applications, tools and infrastructure to manage all aspects of our global delivery process in order to manage quality and security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our customers. We maintain processes and infrastructure to protect our clients and their customers confidential and sensitive information and allocate resources to ensure information security, cybersecurity and data privacy. We have made significant investments in the appropriate people, processes and technology to establish and manage compliance with confidentiality policies, laws and regulations governing our activities, such as the European Union data protection legal framework referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), and others. We focus on establishing stringent security standards and internal controls and meet the standards of ISO 27001:2013 and ISO 9001:2015. We are an ISAE 3402 Type 2 certified IT services provider. This certification is issued by an auditor in compliance with the globally recognized assurance standard. The certification, along with others we hold, provide our customers with independent third-party verification of our information security, quality management and general controls practices. We have developed sophisticated project management techniques facilitated through our proprietary Project Management Tools, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical for visibility into project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents. These tools promote collaboration and effective oversight, reduce work time and costs, and increase quality for our IT management and our customers. Corporate and Social Responsibility We are committed to integrating positive social, environmental and ethical practices into our business operations and strategy. This commitment is key to our continual development as a business and drives value for our employees, customers, business partners, the community and other stakeholders. We practice the principles established in our Code of Ethical Conduct by making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate and championing corporate social responsibility efforts. 6 Table of Contents Through our focused efforts in the areas of Education, Environment, and Community, we are committed to sharing the expertise and attributes of our highly skilled global workforce to effectively support the needs of, and positively add to the world at large and the communities where we work and live. By understanding our impact on local, regional and global communities, we strive to create positive change and opportunities in areas where it is needed most. Such efforts include our global technology education initiatives, through which we provide innovative, industry-relevant technology training and mentorship programs to students globally as well as through other technology conferences, seminars, and hackathon events where we encourage social innovation and jumpstart collaboration among our local tech communities. We maintain strong relationships with the leading technical institutions in Eastern Europe and we support these universities through EPAM-branded research labs, developing training courses and curriculum, providing teaching equipment and engaging students to identify their talents in information technology. We believe responsible stewardship of the environment is critical, and we take this responsibility seriously. We continually strive to improve our environmental performance through implementation of sustainable development and environmental practices including recycling and upcycling electronics and computers and designing and releasing a carbon footprint calculator to our employees and the general public. In addition, as an innovation-driven business, EPAMs success depends on hiring the most talented employees in the industry. We are committed to respecting our employees' fundamental human rights at work. We similarly expect our suppliers, vendors, and subcontractors and all other third-party companies that comprise EPAMs supply chain to respect human rights and to avoid complicity in human rights abuses. EPAM seeks to provide our customers with exceptional personnel, which includes people with varied and diverse characteristics, to drive the innovation and thought diversity for which we are known. We aim to continuously retain and supply a pipeline of qualified, diverse candidates to foster this goal. Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is important to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our domain knowledge and create complex, specialized solutions for our customers. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all deliverable intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment or provision of services. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed or otherwise made available by us remains confidential. We also enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with our customers. These customary agreements cover our use of our customers software systems and platforms as our customers usually own the intellectual property in the products we develop for them. Furthermore, we often grant a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, nonexclusive, transferable and non-revocable license to our customers to use our pre-existing intellectual property, but only to the extent necessary in order to use the software or systems we develop for them. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-corruption laws and data privacy regulations. Compliance with these laws requires significant resources and non-compliance may result in civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at http://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 7 Table of Contents We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. We make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, http://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. The filings are also available through the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains a website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically through the EDGAR System. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Listed below, not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence, are the most significant risk factors applicable to us. Additionally, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Relating to Our Business We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management, systems, resources, and results of operations. We have grown rapidly and significantly expanded our business over the past several years, both organically and through strategic acquisitions. Our growth has resulted in part from managing larger and more complex projects for our customers, but consequently requires that we invest substantial amounts of cash in new facilities and physical infrastructure. Our rapid growth places significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, and creates challenges, including: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled professionals and management personnel; planning resource utilization rates on a consistent basis and efficiently using on-site, off-site and offshore staffing; maintaining close and effective relationships with a larger number of customers in a greater number of industries and locations; controlling costs and minimizing cost overruns and project delays in new facilities and delivery centers; effectively maintaining productivity levels and implementing process improvements across geographies and business units; and improving our internal administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We intend to continue our expansion and pursue available opportunities for the foreseeable future. As we introduce new services, enter into new markets, and take on increasingly large and complex projects, our business may face new risks and challenges. If customers do not choose us for large and complex projects or we do not effectively manage those projects, our reputation, business, and financial goals may be damaged. We need to generate business and revenues to support new facilities and infrastructure projects. If the challenges associated with expansion negatively impact our anticipated growth and margins, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must successfully attract, hire, train and retain qualified personnel to service our customers projects and we must productively utilize those personnel to remain profitable. Hiring and retaining professionals with diverse skill sets across our broad geography of operations is critical to maintaining existing engagements and obtaining new business. If we do not deploy those professionals and use computers, office space, and other fixed-cost resources productively, our profitability will be significantly impacted. We must manage the utilization levels of the professionals that we hire and train by planning for future needs effectively and staffing projects appropriately while accurately predicting the general economy and our customers need for our services. If we are unable to attract, hire, train, and retain highly skilled personnel and productively deploy them on customer projects, we will jeopardize our ability to meet and develop ongoing and future business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents Competition for highly skilled professionals is intense in the markets where we operate, and we may experience significant employee turnover rates due to such competition. If we are unable to retain professionals with specialized skills, our revenues, operating efficiency and profitability will decrease. Cost reductions, such as reducing headcount, or voluntary departures that result from our failure to retain the professionals we hire, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire personnel to meet our business requirements. Price increases could lead to a decline in demand for our services. Increases in wages, equity compensation, and other compensation expenses could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage, increase our costs, and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wages for technology professionals in the emerging markets where we have significant operations and delivery centers are lower than comparable wages in more developed countries. However, wages in the technology industry in these countries may increase at a faster rate than in the past, which may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our people. If we increase operations and hiring in more developed economies, our compensation expenses will increase because of the higher wages demanded by technology professionals in those markets. Wage inflation, whether driven by competition for talent or ordinary course pay increases, may also increase our cost of providing services and reduce our profitability if we are not able to pass those costs on to our customers or charge premium prices when justified by market demand. We expect to continue our practice of granting equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and paying other stock-based compensation. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may make issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plans less attractive to us, but if we reduce the amount or value of equity award grants, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Conversely, if we grant more or higher value equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the equity compensation expenses could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New regulations, volatility in our stock, and dilution to our stockholders could diminish our use and the value of our equity-based awards. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or cause us to reconsider our compensation practices. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and other key personnel to those competitors. If we are unable to attract new senior executives or key personnel due to the intense competition for talent in our industry, it could disrupt our business operations and growth. Our operations in emerging markets subject us to greater economic, financial, and banking risks than we would face in more developed markets. We have significant operations in certain emerging market economies in Eastern Europe, India and other Asian countries. Emerging markets are vulnerable to market and economic volatility to a greater extent than more developed markets, which presents risks to our business and operations. A majority of our revenues are generated in North America and Western Europe. However, most of our personnel and delivery centers are located in lower cost locations, including emerging markets. This exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, compensation, purchases, capital expenditures, receivables and other balance-sheet items. As we continue to leverage and expand our global delivery model into other emerging markets, a larger portion of our revenues and incurred expenses may be in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currency exchange volatility caused by economic instability or other factors could materially impact our results. See