Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Executive Summary We are a leading global IT services provider focused on complex software product development services, software engineering and vertically-oriented custom development solutions. Since our inception in 1993, we have been serving independent software vendors, or ISVs, and technology companies. The foundation we have built serving ISVs and technology companies has enabled us to differentiate ourselves in the market for software engineering skills and technology capabilities. Our work with these clients exposes us to their customers challenges across a variety of industry verticals. This has enabled us to develop vertical-specific domain expertise and grow our business in multiple industry verticals, including Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Travel and Consumer. We have client management locations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, Russia, Switzerland, Netherlands, Kazakhstan, Singapore, Hong Kong, China and Australia. Our clients primarily consist of Forbes Global 2000 corporations located in North America, Europe and the CIS. Our delivery centers in Belarus, Ukraine, Russia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Armenia, Poland and China are strategically located in centers of software engineering talent and educational excellence. The majority of our employees are located in these delivery centers with compensation and benefits related to this pool of resources being the primary component of our operating expenses. Additionally, our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, such as computers and office space, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage efficiency of our global operations by maintaining adequate resource utilization levels and implementing company-wide cost-management programs. As a result, we have managed to create a relatively homogeneous delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients across all geographies, thereby further strengthening our relationships with them. Our focus on delivering quality to our clients is reflected by an average of 93.9% and 78.4% of our revenues in 2013 coming from clients that had used our services for at least one and two years, respectively. Year-to-Date 2014 Developments and Trends During the first half of 2014, our revenues were $335.1 million , an increase of approximately 30% over $257.4 million reported for the same period a year ago. Our performance remained strong across all of our key verticals, driving revenue growth in North America and Europe. We remain committed to maintaining and improving a well-balanced portfolio of clients. During the first half of 2014, our top five and top ten customers accounted for 33.1% and 44.9% of consolidated revenues, respectively. We seek to grow revenues by continually expanding the scope and size of our engagements, as well as by growing our key customer base through internal business development efforts and strategic acquisitions. During the first half of 2014, we made progress in this strategy and increased the reach of our offerings, both geographically and across industry verticals. On March 5, 2014, we completed an acquisition of substantially all of the assets of U.S.-based healthcare technology consulting firm Netsoft Holdings, LLC and Armenia-based Ozsoft, LLC (collectively, Netsoft). Netsoft works with leading health plans in the U.S. on their medical management and claims systems, and specializes in working with leaders in pioneering fields such as accountable care organizations, tele-medicine, healthcare analytics, personalized medicine, health information exchanges, and online self-service capabilities. The Netsoft acquisition added approximately 40 IT professionals to our headcount. On April 30, 2014, we acquired all of the outstanding equity of Joint Technology Development Limited, a company organized under the laws of Hong Kong, including its wholly-owned subsidiaries Jointech Software (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd., a company organized under the laws of China, and Jointech Software Pte. Ltd., a company organized under the laws of Singapore 22 Table of Contents (collectively, Jointech). Jointech provides strategic technology services to multi-national organizations in investment banking, wealth and asset management. The acquisition of Jointech added over 200 IT professionals to our headcount and significantly extended our footprint in South-East Asia. With this acquisition, we expect to create an integrated global platform focused on serving large multinational customers within the Banking and Financial Services vertical, and extend our global value proposition in the region. On June 6, 2014, we acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain specified liabilities of each of GGA Software Services, LLC, Institute of Theoretical Chemistry, Inc., and GGAs Russian affiliate (collectively, GGA). Established in 1994, GGA develops best-in-class scientific informatics applications and content databases; creates state-of-the-art algorithms and models; and delivers IT support, maintenance, and QA services to the world s leading healthcare and life sciences companies, including eight of the top ten largest pharmaceutical companies. The acquisition added over 300 IT professionals and over 120 scientists to our highly-experienced employee base and created a significant growth opportunity in the Life Sciences and Healthcare industry verticals. We also see tremendous potential in combining our traditionally recognized strengths with GGA s algorithm development, mathematical modeling, and sophisticated content database development capabilities. The capability to develop and operationalize platforms, combining tools, models and data, has broad applications across other strategic industries on which EPAM focuses, including the Banking and Financial Services, Business Information and Media, and Retail and Consumer verticals. Summary of Results of Operations and Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following table presents a summary of our results of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 : Three Months Ended June 30, Increase Six Months Ended June 30, Increase 2014 2013 Dollars Percentage 2014 2013 Dollars Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 174,695 $ 133,184 $ 41,511 31.2 % $ 335,079 $ 257,382 $ 77,697 30.2 % Income from operations 18,476 17,535 941 5.4 % 40,333 33,071 7,262 22.0 % Net income 14,814 14,118 696 4.9 % 32,178 26,798 5,380 20.1 % The key highlights of our consolidated results for the second quarter of 2014 and six months ended June 30, 2014 , as compared to the corresponding periods of 2013, were as follows: The European geography continued its strong performance, generating revenue growth of $20.5 million and $42.6 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , or 42.9% and 45.7% , respectively, over the corresponding periods of 2013 ; Revenue increased in all our key verticals, and in particular within the Banking and Financial Services and Travel and Consumer verticals, which grew $17.0 million and $7.7 million , respectively, in the second quarter of 2014 over the corresponding period of 2013 , and $31.9 million and $16.9 million on a year-to-date basis. Our organic growth was complemented by three completed strategic acquisitions which expanded our highly skilled employee base, geographic footprint and service capabilities. In addition, we added capabilities in the Healthcare and Life Sciences vertical forming a foundation for emerging verticals. Income from operations grew by 5.4% and 22.0% during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, compared with the three and six months ended June 30, 2013 . As a percentage of revenues, income from operations decreased by 2.6% and 0.8% during the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 , respectively, over the corresponding periods in 2013 . The decrease was due to a combination of factors, including an increase of over $2.0 million in stock-based compensation expense, a $1.6 million increase in amortization expenses related to our 2014 acquisitions, and a $2.0 million writedown of prepaid assets to adjust the book value of prepaid construction costs to an estimated recoverable amount. Net income increased by 4.9% during the second quarter of 2014 compared with the corresponding period of 2013 . On a year-to-date basis, the net income increased by 20.1% over the corresponding period of 2013 . Expressed as a percentage of revenues, our net income decreased by 2.1% and 0.8% during the three and six months ended, respectively, due to the items noted above, as well as the adverse effects of higher effective tax rate and foreign exchange rate changes in 2014 when compared to last year. The operating results in any period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. 23 Table of Contents In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, we discuss the following key measures that are not calculated according to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP): Income from operations, as reported on our consolidated and condensed statements of income and comprehensive income, excluding certain expenses and benefits, which we refer to as non-GAAP income from operations. Non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of reported revenues, which we refer to as non-GAAP operating margin. We believe that these non-GAAP measures help illustrate underlying trends in our business, and we use these measures to establish budgets and operational goals (communicated internally and externally), manage our business and evaluate our performance. We also believe these measures help investors compare our operating performance with our results in prior periods and compare our operating results with those of similar companies. We exclude certain expenses and benefits from non-GAAP income from operations that we believe are not reflective of these underlying business trends and are not useful measures in determining our operational performance and overall business strategy. Because our reported non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated according to GAAP, these measures are not comparable to GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly described non-GAAP measures reported by other companies within our industry. Consequently, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be evaluated in isolation from or supplant comparable GAAP measures, but, rather, should be considered together with our consolidated and condensed financial statements, which are prepared according to GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations as reported on our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income to non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin for the three and six months ended June 30, 2014 and 2013 : Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP income from operations $ 18,476 $ 17,535 $ 40,333 $ 33,071 Stock-based compensation expense 5,891 3,850 9,099 6,426 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 2,222 704 2,872 1,403 Acquisition-related costs 299 10 880 48 One-time items 2,000 (331 ) 2,000 (331 ) Non-GAAP income from operations $ 28,888 $ 21,768 $ 55,184 $ 40,617 GAAP operating margin 10.6 % 13.2 % 12.0 % 12.8 % Effect of the adjustments detailed above 5.9 % 3.1 % 4.5 % 3.0 % Non-GAAP operating margin 16.5 % 16.3 % 16.5 % 15.8 % From time to time, we acquire businesses and incur operating expenses which we would not otherwise have incurred. Such expenses include acquisition-related costs and amortization of acquired intangible assets. These costs are dependent on a number of factors and are generally inconsistent in amount and frequency, as well as significantly impacted by the timing and size of related acquisitions. Additionally, the size, complexity and volume of past acquisitions, which often drives the magnitude of acquisition-related costs, may not be indicative of the size, complexity and volume of future transactions. Amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded from our non-GAAP measures to allow management to evaluate our operating results as if these assets have been developed internally rather than acquired in a business combination. We believe this approach provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the acquired intangible assets are treated in a manner comparable to the internally developed assets. Stock-based compensation expense is excluded from our non-GAAP measures because we believe such exclusion allows for a more accurate comparison of our operating results among the periods, as well as enhances comparability with operating results of peer companies. We also exclude certain other expenses and one-time charges because we believe they are not indicative of what we consider to be organic, continuing operations. Such items include goodwill impairment write-offs, legal settlement expenses, and certain other non-cash one-time charges. See our Results of Operations section below for a more detailed discussion and analysis of these charges. 24 Table of Contents We have significant international operations, and we earn revenues and incur expenses in multiple currencies. When important to managements analysis, operating results are compared in constant currency terms, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The effect of rate fluctuations is excluded by translating the current periods revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates of the prior period of comparison. See Item 3,