Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 22 Table of Contents Executive Summary From software products to core business applications, we are a leading global provider of expert consulting, development, testing, support and infrastructure services to many of the worlds leading organizations. As we evolve into a global, not just regional, leader in software and application outsourcing, we recognize that our history, our culture, our delivery model, and our people are at the core of what makes us excel in the industry. We deliver complex solutions to clients around the world utilizing our distributed delivery model, which now includes advanced capabilities. Our delivery focus has not wavered since our inception over 20 years ago, even as our capabilities, tools, and practices have progressed over time. Our delivery evolved to accommodate the needs of our customers across multiple continents and lines of business and to ensure consistent quality in every project deliverable. Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, such as computers and office space, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage the efficiency of our global operations by maintaining adequate resource utilization levels and implementing company-wide cost-management programs. As a result, we have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global clients across all geographies, further strengthening our relationships with them. Through increased specialization in focused verticals and a continued emphasis on strategic partnerships, we are leveraging our roots in software engineering to become a recognized brand in IT services and software development. We are continuously venturing into new industries to expand our core industry client base in software and technology, banking and capital markets, business information and media, travel and hospitality. Our clients depend on us to solve complex technical challenges and our teams are integral parts of engineering efforts that cross products and industries. Year-to-Date 2015 Developments and Trends During the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our revenues were $200.0 million , an increase of approximately 24.7% over $160.4 million reported for the same period a year ago. Our performance remained strong across our key verticals with Life Sciences and Healthcare vertical emerging rapidly and showing growth of 189.7% over the first quarter of 2014. We remain committed to maintaining and improving a well-balanced portfolio of clients. During the first quarter of 2015, our top five and top ten customers accounted for 35.5% and 46.4% of consolidated revenues, respectively. We seek to grow revenues by continually expanding the scope and size of our engagements, as well as by growing our key customer base through business development efforts and strategic acquisitions. During the first quarter of 2015, we focused on integrating the acquired business as well as continued developing our existing business, both geographically and across industry verticals. 23 Table of Contents Summary of Results of Operations and Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following table presents a summary of our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 : Three Months Ended March 31, Increase 2015 2014 Dollars Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Revenues $ 200,045 $ 160,384 $ 39,661 24.7 % Income from operations 22,820 21,857 963 4.4 % Net income 14,714 17,364 (2,650 ) (15.3 )% The key highlights of our consolidated results for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the corresponding period of 2014 , were as follows: The North American geography increased the most, generating revenue growth of $25.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , or 32.3% over the corresponding period of 2014 ; Revenue increased in all our key verticals, and in particular within the ISVs and Technology and Life Sciences and Healthcare verticals, which grew $9.7 million and $9.5 million , respectively, in the first quarter of 2015 over the corresponding period of 2014 . Income from operations grew by 4.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared with the three months ended March 31, 2014 . Income from operations decreased by 2.2% as a percentage of revenues over the same period. The decrease was due to a combination of factors, including an increase of $5.9 million in stock-based compensation expense, of which $4.0 million relates to our 2014 acquisitions; and increase in salaries for the non-production personnel to support our aggressive growth. Net income decreased by 15.3% during the first quarter of 2015 compared with the corresponding period of 2014 . Expressed as a percentage of revenues, net income decreased 3.4% during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , as compared to the prior year period due to the items noted above, as well as the effects of significant adverse foreign exchange rate changes to date in 2015 as compared to 2014 for currencies including the euro. The operating results in any period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. In our quarterly earnings press releases and conference calls, we discuss the following key measures that are not calculated according to U.S. GAAP: Non-GAAP income from operations is the income from operations as reported on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income exclusive of certain expenses and benefits. Non-GAAP operating margin is the non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of reported revenues. 24 Table of Contents We believe that these non-GAAP measures help illustrate trends in our core business and we use these measures to establish budgets and operational goals, manage our business and evaluate our performance. We exclude certain expenses and benefits from non-GAAP income from operations that we believe are not reflective of these underlying business trends and are not useful measures in determining our operational performance and overall business strategy. Because our reported non-GAAP financial measures are not calculated according to GAAP, these measures are not comparable to GAAP and may not be comparable to similarly described non-GAAP measures reported by other companies within our industry. Consequently, our non-GAAP financial measures should not be evaluated in isolation from or supplant comparable GAAP measures, but, rather, should be considered together with our financial statements, which are prepared according to GAAP. The following table presents a reconciliation of income from operations as reported on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income to non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 : Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (in thousands, except percentages) GAAP income from operations $ 22,820 $ 21,857 Stock-based compensation expense 9,134 3,208 Amortization of purchased intangible assets 1,418 650 Acquisition-related costs 62 581 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 33,434 $ 26,296 GAAP operating margin 11.4 % 13.6 % Effect of the adjustments detailed above 5.3 % 2.8 % Non-GAAP operating margin 16.7 % 16.4 % From time to time, we acquire businesses and as such incur operating expenses, which are not related to our core company or segment operations and may include acquisition-related costs and amortization of acquired intangible assets. These costs vary with the size and complexity of the related acquisition and are generally inconsistent in amount and frequency, therefore, the size, complexity and volume of past acquisitions, which often drive the magnitude of acquisition-related costs, may not be indicative of the size, complexity and volume of future transactions and costs. Amortization of purchased intangible assets is excluded from our non-GAAP measures to allow management to evaluate our operating results as if these assets have been developed internally rather than acquired in a business combination. We believe this approach provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the acquired intangible assets are treated in a manner comparable to the internally developed assets. Stock-based compensation expense is excluded from our non-GAAP measures because we believe such exclusion allows for a more accurate comparison of our operating results among the periods. We also exclude certain other expenses and one-time charges that we believe are not indicative of what we consider to be organic continuing operations. Such items include impairment write-offs of goodwill and other assets, legal settlement expenses, and certain other non-cash one-time charges and write offs. See our Results of Operations section below for a more detailed discussion and analysis of these charges. We have significant international operations, and we earn revenues and incur expenses in multiple currencies. When important to managements analysis, operating results are compared in constant currency terms, a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The effect of rate fluctuations is excluded by translating the current periods revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at the weighted average exchange rates of the prior period of comparison. See Item 3,