Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. In addition to historical information, this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual results to differ materially from managements expectations. Factors that could cause such differences are discussed in the sections entitled Forward-Looking Statements in this item and in Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. We assume no obligation to update any of these forward-looking statements. In this quarterly report, EPAM, EPAM Systems, Inc., the Company, we, us and our refer to EPAM Systems, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. EPAM is a trademark of EPAM Systems, Inc. All other trademarks and service marks used herein are the property of their respective owners. Executive Summary We have used our software engineering expertise to become a leading global provider of digital engineering, cloud and AI-enabled transformation services, as well as a leading business and experience consulting partner for global enterprises and ambitious startups. We address our clients transformation challenges by fusing EPAM Continuums integrated strategy, experience and technology consulting with our 30+ years of engineering execution to speed our clients time to market and drive greater value from their digital investments. Through increased specialization in focused verticals and a continued emphasis on strategic partnerships, we are able to deliver technology transformation from start to finish, leveraging agile methodologies, proven client collaboration frameworks, engineering excellence tools, hybrid teams and our award-winning proprietary global delivery platform. Our clients depend on us to solve their complex technical challenges and rely on our expertise in core engineering, advanced technologies, digital design and intelligent enterprise development. We combine our software engineering heritage with strategic business and innovation consulting, design thinking, and physical-digital capabilities to deliver end-to-end digital transformation services for our clients. We focus on building long-term partnerships with our clients in a market that is constantly challenged by the pressures of digitization through our innovative strategy and scalable software solutions, integrated advisory, business consulting and experience design, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities. Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, enhance our productivity levels and enable us to better manage the efficiency of our global operations. As a result, we have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our global delivery centers to our clients across the world. Our teams of consultants, designers, architects, engineers and trainers have the capabilities and skill sets to deliver business results. Business Update Regarding the War in Ukraine On February 24, 2022, Russian forces attacked Ukraine and its people and EPAM has repeatedly called for an immediate end to this unlawful and unconscionable attack. EPAMs highest priority is the safety and security of its employees and their families in Ukraine as well as in the broader region, and we have continued to support relocating our employees to lower risk locations, both in Ukraine and to other countries where we operate. The vast majority of our Ukraine employees are in safe locations and operating at levels of productivity consistent with those achieved prior to the attack. As of March 31, 2024, Ukraine continues to be our largest delivery location with the most delivery professionals. Furthermore, we have maintained our $100 million humanitarian aid commitment to our people in Ukraine in addition to our other donations and volunteer efforts. 27 Table of Contents The impact of Russias invasion of Ukraine on our operations, personnel, and physical assets in Ukraine has had, and, along with any escalation of the war that includes Belarus territory or military, could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operations. Actions taken by other countries, including new and stricter sanctions by Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union, the U.S. and other companies and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Belarus, and Belarus responses to those sanctions, including counter-sanctions and other actions, have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operations. Clients have and may continue to seek altered terms, conditions, and delivery locations for the performance of services, delay planned work or seek services from alternate providers, or suspend, terminate, fail to renew, or reduce existing contracts or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Some of our clients have implemented steps to block internet communications with Ukraine and Belarus to protect against potential cyberattacks or other information security threats, which has caused a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our services to these clients from those locations. Such material adverse effects disrupt our delivery of services, cause us to shift all or portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries, restrict our ability to engage in certain projects in the region and serve certain clients in or from the region, and could negatively impact our personnel, operations, financial results and business outlook. Our Board of Directors continues its oversight of our strategic, geopolitical, and cybersecurity risks and the risks related to our geographic expansion. Our Board has received updates from management during both regular and special meetings, while also providing oversight of the risks associated with Russias invasion of Ukraine and other strategic areas of importance related to the war. Moving Forward We continue to execute our business continuity plans and adapt to developments as they occur to protect the safety of our people and address impacts on our delivery infrastructure, including reallocating work to other geographies within our global footprint. We have engaged both our personnel and our clients to meet their needs while mitigating delivery challenges. EPAM continues to operate productively in more than 55 countries and provides consistent high-quality delivery to our clients. Our global delivery centers have sufficient resources, including infrastructure and capital, to support ongoing operations. We continue to rapidly respond to the difficult conditions in Ukraine while maintaining a focus on our clients and long-term growth. In previous years after the invasion, implementation and execution of our business continuity plans, relocation costs, our humanitarian commitment to our people in Ukraine, and the cost of our phased exit from Russia resulted in materially increased expenses and some of these expenses continued during this quarter and we expect some of those expenses will continue to occur in subsequent quarters for some time in the future. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the war in Ukraine because the conflict and government reactions change quickly and are beyond our control. Prolonged military activities, broad-based sanctions and counter-sanctions, or escalation of the war that includes Belarus territory or military could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. The information contained in this section is accurate as of the date hereof but may become outdated due to changing circumstances beyond our control or present awareness. For additional information on the various risks posed by the attack against Ukraine and the impact in the region as well as other risks to our business, please read Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 and Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors in this quarterly report. Year-to-Date 2024 Developments and Trends Our business continues to be disrupted by the war in Ukraine which has created and continues to create uncertainties through March 31, 2024 and beyond. In addition, our business and operating results were negatively impacted in the first three months of 2024 by uneven demand for our services as our clients took action to reduce their spending on information technology services. For the first three months of 2024, our revenues were $1.165 billion, a decrease of 3.8% from $1.211 billion reported for the same period of 2023. Income from operations as a percentage of revenues decreased to 9.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to 9.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2023, largely driven by an increase in compensation costs including stock-based compensation expense as a percentage of revenues, partially offset by a decrease in expenses associated with the geographic repositioning of our workforce and humanitarian efforts for Ukraine. 28 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial position and results of operations is based on our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that may affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On a recurring basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition and related allowances, impairments of long-lived assets including intangible assets, goodwill and right-of-use assets, income taxes including the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, and stock-based compensation. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. In addition, our reported financial condition and results of operations could vary due to a change in the application of a particular accounting standard. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, there have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as reported in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Results of Operations The following table sets forth a summary of our consolidated results of operations for the periods indicated. This information should be read together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this quarterly report. The operating results in any period are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any future period. Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages and per share data) Revenues $ 1,165,465 100.0 % $ 1,210,941 100.0 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)(1) 834,334 71.6 % 855,901 70.7 % Selling, general and administrative expenses(2) 198,453 17.0 % 211,887 17.5 % Depreciation and amortization expense 22,146 1.9 % 22,782 1.9 % Income from operations 110,532 9.5 % 120,371 9.9 % Interest and other income, net 15,042 1.3 % 11,521 1.0 % Foreign exchange loss (1,919) (0.2) % (4,608) (0.4) % Income before provision for income taxes 123,655 10.6 % 127,284 10.5 % Provision for income taxes 7,412 0.6 % 24,992 2.1 % Net income $ 116,243 10.0 % $ 102,292 8.4 % Effective tax rate 6.0 % 19.6 % Diluted earnings per share $ 1.97 $ 1.73 (1)Includes $22,357 and $16,011 of stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. (2)Includes $22,434 and $22,568 of stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Consolidated Results Review Revenues During the three months ended March 31, 2024, our total revenues decreased by 3.8% to $1.165 billion compared to the corresponding period in 2023. Revenues have been negatively impacted by reduced demand for our services as our clients took action to reduce spending and as a result of the sale of our remaining holdings in Russia in the third quarter of 2023, and positively impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which offset our revenue decline by 0.5% during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period last year. 29 Table of Contents Revenues by client location for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 were as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands, except percentages) Americas(1) $ 692,920 59.5 % $ 709,802 58.6 % EMEA(2) 449,247 38.5 % 463,937 38.3 % APAC(3) 23,298 2.0 % 26,810 2.2 % CEE(4) % 10,392 0.9 % Revenues $ 1,165,465 100.0 % $ 1,210,941 100.0 % (1)Americas includes revenues from clients in North, Central and South America. (2)EMEA includes revenues from clients in Western Europe and the Middle East. (3)APAC includes revenues from clients in East Asia, Southeast Asia and Australia. (4)CEE includes revenues from clients in Belarus, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Russia, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. As a result of the sale of the Companys remaining holdings in Russia to a third-party on July 26, 2023, revenues from the CEE region are no longer material. Beginning in 2024, revenues from the CEE region are included in the EMEA region. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the United States continued to be our largest client location. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, revenues in the United States decreased 1.8% to $667.1 million from $679.4 million in the first quarter of 2023, largely due to reduced spending at certain large accounts and generally slower growth in revenues across a range of clients in the region. The top three revenue contributing client location countries in EMEA were the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the Netherlands, generating $135.9 million, $98.4 million and $51.7 million in revenues, respectively, during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Revenues from clients in these three countries were $155.3 million, $89.9 million, and $59.1 million, respectively, in the corresponding period last year. Revenues in the EMEA region were negatively impacted by reduced spending at certain large accounts and were positively impacted by the strengthening of the euro, the British pound and Swiss franc relative to the U.S. dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in the previous year. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, revenues from clients in the APAC region comprised 2.0% of total revenues, a level consistent with the same period in the previous year. Cost of Revenues (Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization) The principal components of our cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) are salaries, bonuses, fringe benefits, stock-based compensation, and project-related travel costs for our delivery professionals and fees for subcontractors who are assigned to client projects. Salaries and other compensation expenses of our delivery professionals are reported as cost of revenues regardless of whether the employees are actually performing services for clients during a given period. Our employees are a critical asset, necessary for our continued success and, therefore, we are continuously exploring new geographies, markets, and sources to locate talented personnel and present them with competitive compensation programs and educational opportunities. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) was $834.3 million representing a decrease of 2.5% from $855.9 million in the corresponding period of 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs other than stock-based compensation expense largely attributable to the 9.2% decrease in the average number of production professionals which reflects the impact from the Cost Optimization Program initiated in the third quarter of 2023. See Note 9 Cost Optimization Program for more information regarding the Companys restructuring program. Other drivers that contributed to the year-over-year decrease were a decline in costs associated with our humanitarian efforts for Ukraine of $1.8 million and our unbilled business continuity resources of $7.4 million. The decreases were partially offset by higher expenses due to a $6.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and the negative impact from the appreciation of foreign currencies in certain of our delivery locations. Expressed as a percentage of revenues, cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) was 71.6% and 70.7% in the first quarter of 2024 and 2023, respectively. The year-over-year increase in the first quarter of 2024 as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year is primarily due to a $6.3 million increase in stock-based compensation expense and the negative impact from the appreciation of foreign currencies in certain of our delivery locations. 30 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses represent expenditures associated with promoting and selling our services and general and administrative functions of our business. These expenses include the costs of salaries, bonuses, fringe benefits, stock-based compensation, severance, bad debt, travel, legal and accounting services, insurance, facilities including operating leases, advertising, and other promotional activities. Additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses contain costs of relocating our employees and various one-time and unusual expenses such as impairment charges. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, selling, general and administrative expenses were $198.5 million representing a 6.3% decrease as compared to $211.9 million in the corresponding period of 2023. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by a $9.2 million decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from a decrease in headcount which reflects the impact from the Cost Optimization Program initiated in the third quarter of 2023, partially offset by the impacts from salary increases and promotions for existing professionals. See Note 9 Cost Optimization Program for more information regarding the Companys restructuring program. Selling, general and administrative expenses during the quarter also benefited from a $2.4 million reduction in facilities and infrastructure expenses and a $1.6 million decrease in bad debt expense as compared to the corresponding period of the prior year. Expressed as a percentage of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by 0.5% to 17.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period from the prior year, primarily driven by the decrease in personnel-related costs. Depreciation and Amortization Expense During the three months ended March 31, 2024, depreciation and amortization expense was $22.1 million as compared to $22.8 million in the corresponding period last year. The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense during the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily the result of lower depreciation on furniture, fixtures, other equipment and computer hardware, partially offset by increased depreciation on software licenses and increased amortization of acquired finite-lived intangible assets. Expressed as a percentage of revenues, depreciation and amortization expense remained consistent at 1.9% during both the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net includes interest earned on cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, gains and losses from certain financial instruments, interest expense related to our borrowings, government grant income, and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration. Interest and other income, net increased from $11.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $15.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. This increase in Interest and other income, net during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was largely driven by a $7.1 million increase in interest income from our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, driven by improved interest rates, partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in loss due to the change in fair value of contingent consideration and a $2.8 million decrease in government grant income. Foreign Exchange Loss For discussion of the impact of foreign exchange fluctuations see