Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our estimates and forward-looking statements are mainly based on our current expectations and estimates of future events and trends, which affect or may affect our businesses and operations. Those future events and trends may relate to, among other things, developments relating to the war in Ukraine and escalation of the war in the surrounding region, political and civil unrest or military action in the geographies where we conduct business and operate, difficult conditions in global capital markets, foreign exchange markets and the broader economy, including those caused by COVID-19, and the effect that these events may have on our revenues, operations, access to capital, profitability and customer demand. Although we believe that these estimates and forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions, they are subject to several risks, uncertainties and assumptions as to future events that may not prove to be accurate and are made in light of information currently available to us. Important factors, in addition to the factors described in this annual report, may materially and adversely affect our results as indicated in forward-looking statements. You should read this annual report and the documents that we have filed as exhibits hereto completely and with the understanding that our actual future results may be materially different from what we expect. The words may, will, should, could, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential, might, would, continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and similar words are intended to identify estimates and forward-looking statements. Estimates and forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made and, except to the extent required by law, we undertake no obligation to update, to revise or to review any estimate and/or forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Estimates and forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. As a result of the risks and uncertainties described above, the estimates and forward-looking statements discussed in this annual report might not occur and our future results, level of activity, performance or achievements may differ materially from those expressed in these forward-looking statements due to, including, but not limited to, the factors mentioned above, and the differences may be material and adverse. Because of these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. PART I Item 1. Business Company Background EPAM is a leading digital transformation services and product engineering company, providing digital platform engineering and software development services to customers located around the world, primarily in North America, Europe, and Asia. We deliver business and technology transformation from start to finish, leveraging agile methodologies, proven customer collaboration frameworks, engineering excellence tools, hybrid teams and our award-winning proprietary global delivery platform. We leverage our software engineering heritage with strategic business and innovation consulting, design thinking, and physical-digital capabilities to deliver real business value to our customers. We support our customers while enabling them to reimagine their businesses through a digital lens. We focus on building long-term partnerships with our customers in a market that is constantly challenged by the pressures of digitization through our innovative strategy and scalable software solutions, integrated advisory, business consulting and experience design, and a continually evolving mix of advanced capabilities. Our historical core competency, software development and product engineering services, combined with our work with global leaders in enterprise software platforms and emerging technology companies, created our foundation for the evolution of our other offerings, which include advanced technology software solutions, intelligent enterprise services and digital engagement. Our strategic acquisitions have expanded our geographic reach and service capabilities to include digital strategy and design, consulting and test automation and we expect our strategic acquisitions will continue to enable us to offer a broader range of services to our customers from a wide variety of locations. Business Strategy Our service offerings continuously evolve to provide more customized and integrated solutions to our customers where we combine best-in-class software engineering with customer experience design, business consulting and technology innovation services. We are continually expanding our service capabilities, moving beyond our traditional services into business consulting, design and physical product development and areas such as artificial intelligence, robotics and virtual reality. 1 Table of Contents EPAMs key service offerings and solutions include the following practice areas: Engineering Our engineering foundation underpins how we architect, build and scale next-generation software solutions and agile delivery teams. Our engineering expertise allows us to build enterprise technologies that improve business processes, offer smarter analytics and result in greater operational excellence through requirements analysis and platform selection, deep and complex customization, cross-platform migration, implementation and integration. We use our experience, custom tools and specialized knowledge to integrate our customers chosen application platforms with their internal systems and processes and to create custom solutions filling the gaps in their platforms functionality in order to address the needs of the customers users and customers. We address our customers increased need for tighter enterprise integration between software development, testing and maintenance with private, public and mobile infrastructures through our infrastructure management services. These solutions cover the full lifecycle of infrastructure management including application, database, network, server, storage and systems operations management, as well as monitoring, incident notification and resolution. We deliver maintenance and support services through our proprietary distributed project management processes and tools, which reduce the time and costs related to maintenance, enhancement and support activities. We have deep expertise and the ability to offer a comprehensive set of software product development services including product research, customer experience design and prototyping, program management, component design and integration, full lifecycle software testing, product deployment and end-user customization, performance tuning, product support and maintenance, managed services, as well as porting and cross-platform migration. We focus on software products covering a wide range of business applications as well as product development for multiple mobile platforms and embedded software product services. Operations We turn our customers operations into intelligent enterprise hubs with our proprietary platforms, integrated engineering practices and smart automation. Developing a digital experience or product from end-to-end requires input and expertise from a variety of professionals with a broad range of skills. Our multi-disciplinary teams and global delivery framework come together to deliver well-rounded technology solutions that bring a competitive advantage to our customers. In addition to utilizing our dedicated delivery centers, which allow us to deploy key delivery talent, we work closely with leading companies in various industries to enable our customers to better leverage technology and address the simultaneous pressures of driving value for their consumer and offering a more engaging experience. Optimization We turn process optimization into real transformation by using process automation and cognitive techniques to transform legacy processes and deliver streamlined operations that increase revenues and reduce costs for our customers. We rely on our teams, methodologies and tools to optimize every stage of software delivery for improved quality and better features with each release. We maintain a dedicated group of testing and quality assurance professionals with experience across a wide range of technology platforms and industry verticals, who perform software application testing, test management, automation and consulting services focused on helping customers improve their existing software testing and quality assurance practices. We employ industry-recognized and proprietary defect tracking tools and frameworks to deliver a comprehensive range of testing services that identify threats and close loopholes to protect our customers business systems from information loss. Consulting Over the years, as a complement to our core engineering skills, we have added capabilities in business consulting to give us an agile, hybrid approach to the market. Our consulting services drive deeper relationships as we help our customers with larger and more complex challenges. Our integrated consulting teams across Business, Experience, Technology and Data apply a systems thinking mindset to get to the core of our clients challenges. The functional business expertise of our professionals is supplemented by a thorough understanding of technology platforms and their interactions as well as application of data science and machine learning to deliver our best insights into our customers business. Our technical advisory services help customers stay ahead of current technology changes and innovate, where innovation beyond technology is also delivered through collaborative workshops, challenges and new organizational models. 2 Table of Contents Design We apply design thinking to digital and service strategy, user experience and the product lifecycle with a focus on innovative design ideas and product development. Our digital and service design practice provides strategy, design, creative and program management services for customers looking to improve the user experience. We are continuously looking to strengthen and grow our design and consulting practices as evidenced by our strategic acquisitions, which enhanced our consulting, physical design and product development capabilities, global product and design offerings, and our ability to deliver creative solutions, personalized experiences, and next generation digital products. Industry Expertise Strong industry-specific knowledge, backed by extensive experience merging technology with the business processes of our customers, allows us to deliver tailored solutions to various industry verticals. Our customers operate in five main industry verticals as well as a number of other emerging verticals in which we are increasing our presence. Financial Services. We have significant experience working with global investment banks, commercial and retail lending institutions, credit card and payment solution companies, trading platforms, exchanges and brokerages, capital markets, wealth and investment management institutions, insurers and various other providers of financial services and financial technology. We assist these customers with challenges stemming from new regulations, compliance requirements, customer-based needs and risk management. Our financial services domain experts have been recognized with industry awards for engineering and deploying unique applications and business solutions that facilitate growth, competitiveness, regulatory compliance and customer interaction while driving cost efficiency and digital transformation. Travel and Consumer . Our capabilities span a range of platforms, applications and solutions that businesses in travel and hospitality use to enhance their customers experience, control operating expenses and efficiently manage their business. Some of the worlds leading airlines, global hotel brands and online travel agencies rely on our expertise in creating high-quality tools for becoming more adaptive and addressing market challenges. Within this vertical, we also serve global, regional and local retailers, online retail brands and marketplaces, consumer goods manufacturers, as well as distributors and supply chain organizations. We deliver a wide range of services to these customers from complex system modernization, brand strategy and space design, digital marketing, payments and loyalty programs to inventory and order management, leading edge innovations in multi-channel sales and distribution. We have transformed organizations to use technology to expand and revolutionize their business models. Our services directly impact strategy, breakthrough products and compelling brand and employee experiences that help retailers outpace competitors. Software and Hi-Tech. We provide complex software product development services to meet software and technology companies constant need for innovation and agility. Some of the most prominent software brands in the world partner with us to build technology consulting, core engineering and full-scale integration capabilities. Through our extensive experience with many industry leaders in Hi-Tech research and development, software engineering and integration, we have developed proprietary internal processes, methodologies and information technology infrastructure, which give us an edge when it comes to serving customers in the Hi-Tech and Software product markets. Our services span the complete software development lifecycle for software product development using our comprehensive development methodologies, testing, performance tuning, deployment, maintenance and support. Business Information and Media . We help our business information and media customers build products and solutions for all modern platforms including web media streaming, mobile information delivery, print to digital transformations and information discovery and search. Our solutions help customers develop new revenue sources, accelerate content management, delivery and monetization and reach broader audiences. We serve varied customers in this vertical including entertainment media, news and sports broadcasting companies, financial data and legal information providers, content distributors, educational materials publishers, game developers and advertising networks. Life Sciences and Healthcare . In the Life Sciences category, we partner with global pharmaceutical, medical and scientific technology, biotechnology companies and retail pharmacies to deliver sophisticated scientific informatics and innovative enterprise technology solutions. Our personnel in Life Sciences leverage their vast technology expertise to offer deep scientific and mathematical knowledge to broad-based initiatives. Our Life Sciences solutions enable customers to speed research and accelerate time-to-market while improving collaboration, knowledge management and operational excellence. We help our customers in the Healthcare industry respond to changing regulatory environments and improve the quality of care while managing the cost of care through integrated health solutions for patients and providers and human-centered design. Our professionals deliver an end-to-end experience that includes strategy, architecture, development and managed services to customers ranging from the traditional healthcare providers to innovative startups. 3 Table of Contents Emerging Verticals. We also serve the diverse technology needs of customers in the energy, telecommunications, real estate, automotive and various manufacturing industries, as well as government customers. For these customers we develop tools such as plant management platforms, energy saving applications, inventory management mechanisms, connected vehicle platforms and undertake various industry specific aspects of intelligent automation and operational efficiency. These customers are included in our Emerging Verticals, which are further discussed in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Customers We maintain a geographically diverse client base in multiple industries. Our focus on delivering quality service is reflected in established relationships with many of our customers, with 54.7% and 26.4% of our revenues in 2022 coming from customers that had used our services for at least five and ten years, respectively. Our sustained growth and increased capabilities are furthered by both organic growth and strategic acquisitions. We continually evaluate potential acquisition targets that can expand our vertical-specific domain expertise, geographic footprint, service portfolio, client base and management expertise. The following table shows revenues from the top five and ten customers in the respective year as a percentage of revenues for that year: % of Revenues for Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Top five customers 16.4 % 18.2 % 22.0 % Top ten customers 23.8 % 25.7 % 30.9 % As we remain committed to diversifying our client base and adding more customers to our client mix, we expect revenue concentration from our top customers to continue to decrease over the long-term. During 2022 and 2021, we continued to diversify our customer base and decrease our concentration from our top customers, notably as compared to 2020 when, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company capitalized on demand for our services at our larger customers. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to revenues. See Note 17 Segment Information in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding long-lived assets and customer revenues by geographic location as well as financial information related to our reportable segments. Global Delivery Model Our global delivery model and centralized support functions, combined with the benefits of scale from the shared use of fixed-cost resources, have created a delivery base whereby our applications, tools, methodologies and infrastructure allow us to seamlessly deliver services and solutions from our delivery centers to global customers across all geographies. Over the years we have developed a robust global delivery model that serves as a key competitive advantage, enabling us to better meet our customers diverse needs and to provide a compelling value proposition. We continuously grow our delivery platform both organically and through strategic acquisitions, which allows us to expand in existing and new locations and engage personnel with diversified skills that support our strategy. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 52,850 delivery personnel consisting mainly of our core information technology professionals as well as designers, consultants, product experts and scientists. We serve our customers through on-site, off-site and offshore locations across the world and use strategically located delivery centers to offer a strong, diversified and cost-effective delivery platform. In the normal course of business, we may relocate or assist in relocating our employees as business needs arise, new office geographies are added or customer engagements require teams to be available in particular locations. 4 Table of Contents Historically, our largest delivery locations, measured by the number of delivery professionals, have been Ukraine, Belarus and Russia; however, the attack on Ukraine and its people by Russian forces beginning on February 24, 2022 shifted the way we operate in those locations. Our highest priority is the safety and security of our employees and their families in Ukraine as well as in the broader region, and we have continued to support relocating our employees to lower risk locations, both inside Ukraine and to other countries where we operate. The vast majority of our Ukraine employees are in safe locations and operating at levels of productivity consistent with those achieved prior to the war, and Ukraine remains our largest delivery location with the most delivery professionals, 10,500 as of December 31, 2022. Additionally, in response to the war in Ukraine, we continue to execute our business continuity plans and have sustained our hiring efforts across multiple locations in Central and Eastern Europe, Central and Western Asia, India, and Latin America. Our global delivery centers have sufficient resources, including infrastructure and capital, to support ongoing operations. On April 7, 2022, EPAM announced the beginning of a phased exit of our operations in Russia in close collaboration with our employees, contractors, and customers. We have discontinued services to certain customers located in Russia and on September 7, 2022, we executed an agreement to sell substantially all of our remaining holdings in Russia to a third-party. As of December 31, 2022 and through the date of issuing this Annual Report, the long stop date of the agreement has passed and we are currently renegotiating the terms of that sale agreement as well as exploring other strategic alternatives. The timing and completion of a sale is uncertain and any sale would be subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approval by the Russian Government. See Note 2 Impact of the Invasion of Ukraine in the notes to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our Ukraine and Russia locations. We expect to continue operating in Belarus while executing on our Belarus-specific business continuity plans. As of December 31, 2022, Belarus had approximately 4,500 delivery professionals. During 2022, a significant number of our employees in Russia and Belarus have relocated, thus increasing the size of our other delivery locations. Outside of Ukraine and Belarus, our largest delivery locations are India and Poland with approximately 5,900 and 5,650 delivery professionals, respectively, as of December 31, 2022. Human Capital Our employees are a key factor in our ability to grow our revenues and serve our customers. We believe the quality of our employees serves as a key point of differentiation in how we deliver a superior value proposition to our customers and investors. Therefore, it is critical to our success that we are able to identify, attract, hire and retain delivery professionals who are highly skilled in information technology to execute our services, as well as individuals with appropriate skills to fill our executive, finance, legal, human resources and other key management positions. To attract, retain and motivate our employees, we offer a challenging work environment, a culture that values the individual, ongoing skills development initiatives, attractive career advancement with continuous rotation and promotion opportunities while providing an environment and culture that rewards entrepreneurial initiative and performance. As of December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, we had approximately 59,300, 58,800, and 41,150 employees, respectively, of which approximately 52,850, 52,600, and 36,750 were delivery professionals, respectively. Health, Safety, and Wellness: We invest in programs designed to improve the physical, mental, and social well-being of our employees so we can offer a safe, welcoming, and productive workplace that supports and enhances the work-life balance and wellness of our employees. Our health and safety programs are designed to comply with the regulations in the multiple cities and countries where we operate, but also provide working conditions that are compatible with the necessities of our delivery and administrative operations. For those employees who continue to work remotely and for those employees who choose or need to work in EPAMs or our customers offices, we have implemented COVID-19-related safety measures, policies and technologies for their safety and the safety of their colleagues. Recruitment, Training and Utilization: As an innovation-driven business in a competitive industry, our success depends on hiring the most talented employees, training and developing that talent, and deploying them to satisfy customer demand. We have dedicated full-time employees who oversee all aspects of our human capital management process including talent acquisition teams to locate and attract qualified and experienced professionals around the world. Our employees are a critical asset, necessary for our continued success and, therefore, we are continuously exploring new geographies, markets, and sources to locate talented personnel and present them with competitive compensation programs and educational opportunities. We actively monitor how we utilize our delivery professionals and specialists to balance the needs of our customers with the availability, location, and skill sets of our employees and their need for diverse and challenging work. We manage utilization through strategic hiring and efficient staffing of projects for our customers. For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the utilization rates of our delivery professionals were approximately 75.8%, 78.7%, and 79.8%, respectively. 5 Table of Contents EPAM invests significant resources in training and developing our employees through our learning and development programs. Our largest learning and development investment has been directed towards developing our engineering talent, including targeted training programs, innovation labs, and significant internal production projects. Our employees consumed over 2.6 million learning hours in 2022. We deliver training and development opportunities and content through our unique learning ecosystem that promotes learning in the daily workflow to improve retention and productivity, and through dedicated events, including our week-long global learning event, which delivered approximately 130 online sessions. We deliver learning and development content through proprietary platforms that are available to all of our employees. Our digital learning platform provides our employees with a recommendation engine that suggests courses and materials based on employee role, level, location and skills. Our electronic library platform makes books and publications available to all of our employees and we celebrate learning achievements through our recognition portal, where we promote our employees learning accomplishments and employees can recognize each other for their teamwork, initiative, and unique, valuable skills. Diversity and Inclusion: EPAM provides our customers with the skills of our talented personnel, which includes people with varied and diverse backgrounds and characteristics, to drive innovation and thought diversity in delivering our services. We believe that innovation comes from the unique perspectives, knowledge, and experiences of our global employees, so we strive to create diversity and inclusivity by supporting employee affinity groups, offering comprehensive language learning programs, highlighting and sharing our varied cultures, and empowering women and underrepresented groups to celebrate their achievements in the workplace. Increasing diversity in executive and key operational leadership roles is an organizational priority that starts at the top of our organization. Women currently represent approximately 29% of the independent directors on our Board and we have developed programs to identify, retain, mentor, and supply a pipeline of qualified, diverse candidates at all levels of our company. Our programs include dedicating resources and personnel in our talent acquisition team to identify, recognize, and use diverse and inclusive sources for hiring, including associating with organizations that are focused on promoting underrepresented groups in engineering, IT, and business. Our Emerging Engineers Lab is an internship program for entry-level talent sourced from a variety of diverse technology programs across the U.S., Canada and Mexico. We also supplemented our mandatory annual training and global learning week event with materials geared towards eliminating unconscious bias in our professional interactions and recognizing the value of diversity in organizational success. We encouraged the creation of employee affinity groups to build an inclusive and supportive culture at EPAM for groups of employees with similar backgrounds, interests, and identities to grow and thrive professionally. Recognizing that improving the number of underrepresented people in the software and technology industries starts with access to science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, EPAM has created post-secondary STEM education certification programs and is investing in universities that offer degree programs. We also created the EPAM E-KIDS program where our employees volunteer their time to teach elementary school age children of any gender, race, or ethnic identity STEM concepts and introductory software coding skills. As of the end of 2022, we offered the EPAM E-KIDS program in 25 countries. Employee Engagement and Retention: As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, we are committed to respecting our employees' fundamental human rights at work. We believe that retaining skilled talent requires substantially more than meeting basic employment and labor rights, and that employees who are fairly compensated, feel supported in their career development, and are engaged with their employer are more likely to remain with that employer. That is why we strive to provide pay and benefits that demonstrate the value of our employees to us, including a competitive salary, flexible work-life balance, paid time off, health coverage, ongoing training programs, relocation options, and recognition opportunities for open-source software contributions. Our career development programs create detailed and progressive training plans for our employees and help them choose from internal and external training options, mentoring programs, and hands-on opportunities to experience emerging technology areas. We designed our career development programs to enable our employees to develop their engineering skills, influence our culture, develop thought leadership, and introduce them to leaders in our industry. Our career development programs also give our employees opportunities to earn accreditation and relevant expertise in various technology fields, including software and project management certifications and recognition and credentialing from the industrys primary software and cloud services providers. 6 Table of Contents We focus on retaining and engaging top talent by hiring people with the skill sets our customers need and who also share our values so we can build long-term employee satisfaction, which is supported by our voluntary attrition rate of 13.8%, 13.3%, and 10.8% in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We endeavor to recruit for careers, not for short-term projects, and actively foster feedback from our employees so we can improve the EPAM employee experience. Receiving and learning from employee feedback plays a critical role in engaging and retaining our employees because it offers us insights on how we can improve our operations and enhance the skills of our employees. In our 2022 global employee survey, 91% of the employees who responded demonstrated their satisfaction with their employee experience by agreeing or strongly agreeing that they are proud to work at EPAM, with 84% of responders noting that they plan to have a long career with EPAM. Our focus on our employees experience is recognized inside and outside of EPAM. In 2022, the employee experience we create was recognized with awards from a number of different organizations in North America, Europe, and Asia, and we were named on Newsweeks list of Top 100 Most Loved Workplaces for the second consecutive year. Sales and Marketing We market and sell our services through our senior management, sales and business development teams, account managers, and professional staff. Our client service professionals and account managers, who maintain direct customer relationships, play an integral role in engaging with current customers to identify and pursue potential business opportunities. This strategy has been effective in promoting repeat business and growth from within our existing customer base and we believe that our reputation as a reliable provider of software engineering solutions drives additional business from inbound requests and referrals. In addition to effective client management, our sales model also utilizes an integrated sales and marketing approach that leverages a dedicated sales team to identify and acquire new accounts. We maintain a marketing team, which coordinates corporate-level branding efforts such as participation in and hosting of industry conferences and events as well as sponsorship of programming competitions. We have been recognized by many top global independent research agencies, such as Forrester and Gartner and by publications such as Newsweek, Forbes and Fortune. As a recognized leader, EPAM is listed among the top 15 companies in Information Technology Services on the Fortune 1000 and ranked four times as the top IT services company on Fortunes 100 Fastest Growing Companies list. EPAM is also listed among Ad Ages top 25 Worlds Largest Agency Companies for three consecutive years, and Consulting Magazine named EPAM Continuum a top 20 Fastest Growing Firm. Competition The markets in which we compete are changing rapidly and we face competition from multiple market participants such as other global technology solutions providers, specialized consulting firms, boutique digital companies and outsourcing companies based primarily in specific geographies with lower cost labor such as Eastern Europe, India and China. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our business include technical expertise and industry knowledge, end-to-end solution offerings, a reputation for and a track record of high-quality and on-time delivery of work, effective employee recruiting, training and retention, responsiveness to customers business needs, ability to scale, financial stability and price. We face competition from various technology services providers such as Accenture, Atos, Capgemini, Cognizant Technology Solutions, Deloitte Digital, DXC Technology, Endava, Genpact, GlobalLogic, Globant, Grid Dynamics, HCL Technologies, Infosys, Tata Consultancy Services, and Wipro, among others. Additionally, we compete with numerous smaller local companies in the various geographic markets in which we operate. We believe that our focus on complex and innovative software product development solutions, our technical employee base, and our development and continuous improvement in process methodologies, applications and tools position us well to compete effectively in the future. Quality Management and Information Security We are continuously investing in systems, applications, tools and infrastructure to manage all aspects of our global delivery process in order to manage quality and information security risks, while providing control and visibility across all project lifecycle stages both internally and to our customers. We have developed sophisticated project management techniques and procedures facilitated through our proprietary project management tools, a web-based collaborative environment for software development, which we consider critical for visibility into project deliverables, resource management, team messaging and project-related documents. These tools promote collaboration and effective oversight, reduce work time and costs, and increase quality for our IT management and our customers. 7 Table of Contents We maintain, monitor, and improve processes and infrastructure to protect our, our customers and their customers confidential and sensitive information and allocate internal and external resources to assess and ensure information security, cybersecurity and data privacy. We have made significant investments in the appropriate people, processes and technology to establish and manage information security, confidentiality requirements, and laws and regulations governing our activities, such as the European Union data protection legal framework referred to as the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the California Consumer Privacy Act and California Privacy Rights Act, and others. We maintain a focus on adhering to stringent security, privacy and quality standards as well as internal controls which are compliant with ISO 27001, ISO 27701 and ISO 9001 standards. For certain services, EPAM obtains SOC1, SOC2, and/or SOC3 reports and shares them with our customers. These audits are performed by an independent auditor utilizing globally recognized attestation standards (ISAE 3402 and ISAE 3000). Our SOC reports, along with other certifications we hold, provide our customers with independent third-party assurance and validation of our information security, privacy management, quality management and general controls practices. Corporate and Social Responsibility and Environmental, Social, and Governance Initiatives We are committed to integrating positive social, environmental and ethical practices into our business operations, corporate governance, and strategy. This commitment is key to our continual development as a business and drives value for our employees, customers, business partners, the community and other stakeholders. We practice the principles established in our Code of Ethical Conduct by making positive contributions to the communities in which we operate and championing corporate social responsibility efforts. Through our focused efforts in the areas of Education, Environment, and Community, we are committed to sharing the expertise and attributes of our highly skilled global workforce to effectively support the needs of, and positively add to the world at large and the communities where we work and live. By understanding our impact on local, regional and global communities, we strive to create positive change and opportunities in areas where it is needed most. We believe responsible stewardship of the environment is critical, and we take this responsibility seriously. We continually strive to improve our environmental performance through implementation of sustainable development and environmental practices including recycling and upcycling electronics and computers, designing and releasing a carbon footprint calculator to our employees and the general public, and building new offices according to the conservation standards of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design rating system. EPAM was named one of Barron's 100 Most Sustainable Companies in 2022. Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is important to our business. We have invested, and will continue to invest, in research and development to enhance our knowledge, create solutions for our customers, and continuously advance our information security. We rely on a combination of intellectual property laws, trade secrets, cybersecurity, and confidentiality obligations to protect our intellectual property. We require our employees, vendors and independent contractors to enter into written agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us, which assign to us all deliverable intellectual property and work product made, developed or conceived by them in connection with their employment or provision of services and to keep any disclosed information confidential. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with our customers and suppliers to protect information and maintain information security. Our agreements with our customers cover our use of their software systems and platforms as our customers usually own the intellectual property in the software, products, and solutions we develop for them. Furthermore, we often grant our customers a nonexclusive license to use relevant technologies in our pre-existing intellectual property portfolio, but only to the extent necessary to use the software or systems we develop for them. Our suppliers are generally bound by our supplier code of conduct, which imposes an obligation to protect our and our customers intangible assets, including confidential information, personal information, and intellectual property, and to protect the security of those assets. Regulations Due to the industry and geographic diversity of our operations and services, our operations are subject to a variety of rules and regulations. Several foreign and U.S. federal and state agencies regulate various aspects of our business. See Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Regulation and Legislation and Risks Related to Information Security and Data Protection. We are subject to laws and regulations in the United States and other countries in which we operate, including export restrictions, economic sanctions, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar anti-corruption laws and data privacy regulations. Compliance with these laws requires significant resources and non-compliance may result in civil or criminal penalties and other remedial measures. 8 Table of Contents Corporate Information EPAM Systems, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware on December 18, 2002. Our predecessor entity was founded in 1993. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 202, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our telephone number is 267-759-9000. We maintain a website at https://www.epam.com. Our website and the information accessible through our website are not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make certain filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments and exhibits to those reports. These filings are available through the SECs website at https://www.sec.gov which contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically through the SECs EDGAR System. We also make such filings available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of our website, https://investors.epam.com , as soon as reasonably practicable after they are filed with the SEC. Item 1A. Risk Factors Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. Listed below, not necessarily in order of importance or probability of occurrence, are the most significant risk factors applicable to us. Additionally, forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified. See Forward-Looking Statements. Risks Related to Geopolitical Events Instability in geographies where we have significant operations and personnel or where we derive substantial amounts of revenue could have a material adverse effect on our business, customers, service delivery, and financial results. We have significant operations and personnel in Ukraine and Belarus, and continue to wind down our operations in Russia. Conflict in the region has had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, customers, service delivery, and financial results. Economic, civil, military, energy supply and political uncertainty exists and may increase in many of the regions where we operate and derive our revenues. In particular, as of December 31, 2022, approximately 15,000 of our global delivery, administrative and support personnel were based in Ukraine and Belarus, both of which are involved in or affected by the military action in Ukraine. We also have significant operations in countries bordering Ukraine and in countries allied with Russia in the nearby emerging market economies of Eastern Europe and Central Asia, which currently are, and in the future may be, adversely impacted by regional instability. On February 24, 2022, Russian military forces attacked Ukraine, and sustained conflict and disruption in the region is ongoing. In addition to a significant number of personnel and operations in Ukraine, we also own an office building and lease office space in a number of cities in Ukraine, all or some of which may be damaged or destroyed as a result of the continued attacks against Ukraine. Any escalation of the conflict that includes Belarus or its military could jeopardize our personnel, facilities, and operations in Belarus. The impact to Ukraine, as well as actions taken by other countries, including arms shipments and new and stricter sanctions by Canada, the United Kingdom, the European Union and its member countries, the U.S. and other countries and organizations against officials, individuals, regions, and industries in Russia, the annexed portions of Ukraine, and Belarus, and each countrys potential response to such shipments, sanctions, tensions, and military actions has and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our operations. In order to protect against potential cyberattacks or other information security threats, some of our customers have implemented steps to block internet communications with Russia, Ukraine, and Belarus, which has had a material adverse effect on our ability to deliver our services from those locations. Our customers have and may continue to seek altered terms, conditions, and delivery locations for the performance of services, delay planned work or seek services from alternate providers, or suspend, terminate, fail to renew, or reduce existing contracts or services, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. The material adverse effects from the conflict, enhanced sanctions activity, and counter-sanctions may continue to disrupt our delivery of services, has caused us to shift portions of our work occurring in the region to other countries, and may continue to restrict our ability to engage in certain projects or with certain customers in the region. 9 Table of Contents We discontinued services to certain customers located in Russia and we hope to complete the sale of substantially all of our holdings in Russia as soon as feasible, subject to customary closing conditions including regulatory approval. The completion of the sale of substantially all of our Russian holdings is not assured and we could incur additional significant charges in the future related to the exit or effort to exit our operations in Russia. We expect to continue operating in Belarus. A significant number of our employees in Russia and Belarus have relocated, and we expect more employees may relocate to delivery locations outside their countries in the future. EPAM is actively monitoring and enhancing the security of our people and the stability of our infrastructure, including communications, physical assets, energy supply, and internet availability. We continue to execute our business continuity plans in response to developments as they occur and to protect the safety of our personnel and address potential impacts to our delivery infrastructure. To date we have not experienced any material interruptions in our infrastructure, utility supply or internet connectivity needed to support our customers. We have implemented additional contingency plans to relocate work and/or personnel to other geographies within our global footprint and add new locations, as appropriate. Increased operations, service delivery, and hiring in existing or new geographies, including in more developed economies, is likely to increase our expenses, especially compensation expenses for technology professionals in those markets, which could reduce the profitability of our business. Our business continuity plans are designed to address known contingency scenarios to ensure that we have adequate processes and practices in place to protect the safety of our people and to handle potential impacts to our delivery capabilities. Our crisis management procedures, business continuity plans, and disaster recovery capabilities may not be effective at preventing or mitigating the effects of prolonged or multiple crises, such as civil unrest, military conflict, energy instability and a pandemic in a concentrated geographic area or in multiple geographies. The current events in the regions where we operate and where we derive a significant amount of our business pose security risks to our people, our facilities, our operations, and infrastructure, such as utilities and network services, and the further disruption of any or all of them could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results, cause additional volatility in the price of our stock, and reduce our profitability. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the military action in Ukraine or its impacts in Russia, Belarus, or the region because the conflict and government reactions are rapidly changing and beyond our control. Whether in these countries or in others in which we operate, prolonged civil unrest, political instability or uncertainty, military activities, broad-based sanctions or counter-sanctions, should they continue for the long term or escalate, could require us to further rebalance our geographic concentrations and could have a material adverse effect on our personnel, operations, financial results and business outlook. Risks Related to COVID-19 Our results of operations have been adversely affected and could in the future be materially adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to significant volatility in the price of our common stock, created uncertainty in customer demand for, and ability to supply, our services and caused widespread economic disruption. The extent to which the coronavirus pandemic will continue to impact our business, operations and financial results will depend on numerous factors that are unknown and that we may not be able to accurately predict. Those factors include: the impact of the pandemic on economic activity, supply chains, and inflation; any interventions or government measures intended to mitigate economic and supply disruptions; our ability to sell and provide our products, services, and solutions, including as a result of travel restrictions and personnel availability; and bankruptcy or other insolvency procedures among our customers or suppliers. Broad disruptions in our customers markets have disrupted and could continue to disrupt the demand for our products, services, and solutions and result in, among other things, termination of customer contracts, delays or interruptions in the performance of contracts, losses of revenues, reduced profitability, and an increase in bad debt expense. Remote working arrangements increase information security, cyber security and connectivity vulnerabilities and new coronavirus variants could affect our ability to deliver services to our customers because of an outbreak of illness among our employees, our customers employees, or at a facility. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, each of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Personnel and Growth We may be unable to effectively manage our rapid growth or achieve anticipated growth, which could place significant strain on our management, systems, resources, and results of operations. We have grown rapidly and significantly expanded our businesses over the past several years, both organically and through strategic acquisitions and investments. Our growth has resulted in part from managing larger and more complex projects for our customers, but consequently requires that we invest substantial amounts of cash in human capital and the infrastructure to support them, including training, administration, and facilities in existing and new geographies. Our rapid growth places significant demands on our management and our administrative, operational and financial infrastructure, and creates challenges, including: recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled professionals and management personnel; planning resource utilization rates on a consistent basis and efficiently using on-site, off-site and offshore staffing; maintaining close and effective relationships with a larger number of customers in a greater number of industries and locations; controlling costs and minimizing cost overruns and project delays in delivery center and infrastructure expansion; effectively maintaining productivity levels and implementing process improvements across geographies and business units; and evolving our information security and our internal administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We intend to continue our expansion and pursue available opportunities for the foreseeable future. We have and will continue to invest in new lines of business, such as software development education and expanded consulting services. As we introduce new services, enter into new markets, and take on increasingly large and complex projects, our business may face new risks and challenges. If customers do not choose us for large and complex projects or we do not effectively manage those projects, our reputation may be damaged and our business and financial goals may not be realized. Direct-to-consumer offerings in the highly regulated education industry could result in increased liability and compliance costs. We need to generate business and revenues to support new investments and infrastructure projects. If the challenges associated with expansion negatively impact our anticipated growth and margins, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We must successfully attract, hire, train and retain qualified personnel to service our customers projects and we must productively utilize those personnel to remain profitable. Identifying, recruiting, hiring and retaining professionals with diverse skill sets across our broad geography of operations is critical to maintaining existing engagements and obtaining new business and has become more challenging in the present economic and labor climate. If we are unable to recruit skilled professionals and if we do not deploy those professionals and use our physical infrastructure and fixed-cost resources productively, our profitability will be significantly impacted. We must manage the utilization levels of the professionals that we hire and train by planning for future needs effectively and staffing projects appropriately while accurately predicting the general economy and our customers need for our services. If we are unable to attract, hire, train, and retain highly skilled personnel and productively deploy them on customer projects, we will jeopardize our ability to meet our customers expectations and develop ongoing and future business, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Competition for highly skilled professionals has intensified in the markets where we operate, and we may experience significant employee turnover rates due to such competition. Higher wage expectations driven by wage inflation could also create challenges for our recruiting efforts. If we are unable to retain professionals with specialized skills, our revenues, operating efficiency and profitability will decrease, as will our ability to meet emerging technological challenges. Cost reductions, such as reducing headcount, or voluntary departures that result from our failure to retain the professionals we hire, could negatively affect our reputation as an employer and our ability to hire personnel to meet our business requirements. Price increases resulting from increasing compensation to retain personnel could lead to a decline in demand for our services. 11 Table of Contents There may be adverse tax and employment law consequences if the independent contractor status of some of our personnel or the exempt status of our employees is successfully challenged. In several countries, certain of our personnel and certain of the personnel of companies that we have acquired are retained as independent contractors. The criteria to determine whether an individual is considered an independent contractor or an employee are typically fact sensitive, vary by jurisdiction, and are subject to the interpretation of the applicable laws. If a government authority changes the applicable laws or a court makes any adverse determination with respect to independent contractors in general or one or more of our independent contractors specifically, we could incur significant costs, including for prior periods, for tax withholding, social security taxes or payments, workers compensation and unemployment contributions, and recordkeeping, or we may be required to modify our business model, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and increase the difficulty in attracting and retaining personnel. Our success depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success heavily depends upon the continued services of our senior executives and other key employees. If one or more of our senior executives or key employees are unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, we may not be able to replace them easily or at all. If any of our senior executives or key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and other key personnel to those competitors. If we are unable to attract new senior executives or key personnel due to the intense competition for talent in our industry, it could disrupt our business operations and growth. If we fail to integrate or manage acquired companies efficiently and effectively, or if acquisitions do not perform to our expectations, our overall profitability and growth plans could be materially adversely affected. Strategic acquisitions are part of our expansion strategy, but these transactions involve significant risks. Acquired companies may not advance our business strategy or achieve a satisfactory return on our investment and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired employees and business culture, customer relationships, or operations. Acquisitions divert significant management attention and financial resources from our ongoing business. Furthermore, contracts between our acquired companies and their customers may lack terms and conditions that adequately protect us against the risks associated with the services we provide, and our acquired companies' business operations can expose us to potential liability before integration is complete. If not effectively managed, the disruption of our ongoing business, increases in our expenses, including significant one-time expenses and write-offs, and difficulty and complexity of effectively integrating acquired operations may adversely affect our overall growth and profitability. Risks Related to Our Operations Increases in wages, equity compensation, and other compensation expenses could prevent us from sustaining our competitive advantage, increase our costs, and result in dilution to our stockholders. Wages for technology professionals in the emerging markets where we have significant operations and delivery centers are lower than comparable wages in more developed countries. However, wages in general, and in the technology industry in these countries in particular, have increased at a faster rate than in the past, which may make us less competitive unless we are able to increase the efficiency and productivity of our people. If we increase operations and hiring in more developed economies, our compensation expenses will increase because of the higher wages demanded by technology professionals in those markets. Wage inflation, whether driven by competition for talent, ordinary course pay increases, or broader market forces, may also increase our cost of providing services and reduce our profitability if we are not able to pass those costs on to our customers or adjust prices when justified by market demand. We expect to continue our practice of granting equity-based awards under our stock incentive plans and paying other stock-based compensation. The expenses associated with stock-based compensation may make issuing equity awards under our equity incentive plans less attractive to us, but if we reduce the amount or value of equity award grants, we may not be able to attract and retain key personnel. Conversely, if we grant more or higher value equity awards to attract and retain key personnel, the equity compensation expenses could materially adversely affect our results of operations. New regulations, volatility in our stock, and dilution to our stockholders could diminish our use and the value of our equity-based awards. This could put us at a competitive disadvantage or cause us to reconsider our compensation practices. 12 Table of Contents Our operations in emerging markets subject us to greater economic, financial, and banking risks than we would face in more developed markets. Our significant operations in emerging market economies in Eastern Europe, Latin and South America, India, and certain other Asian countries are vulnerable to market and economic volatility to a greater extent than more developed markets, which presents risks to our business and operations. A majority of our revenues are generated in North America and Western Europe. However, most of our personnel and delivery centers are located in lower cost locations, including emerging markets. This exposes us to foreign exchange risks relating to revenues, compensation, purchases, capital expenditures, receivables and other balance-sheet items. As we continue to leverage and expand our global delivery model into other emerging markets, a larger portion of our revenues and incurred expenses may be in currencies other than U.S. dollars. Currency exchange volatility caused by economic instability or other factors could materially impact our results. See