Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained elsewhere in this report, as well as other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry and Market Data This Form 10-K includes industry data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, which represent data, research opinion, or viewpoints published as part of syndicated subscription services. We have not independently verified the data from the industry publications. 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Our company was founded in 1990 and is a Delaware corporation. e Plus inc. is sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as we, our, us, ourselves, or e Plus. Our operations are conducted through two business segments. Our technology segment sells IT hardware products, third-party software and maintenance contracts, our own and third-party advanced professional and managed services, and our proprietary software. Our financing segment operations primarily consist of the financing of IT equipment, software and related services. Both segments sell to commercial entities, state and local governments, government contractors, and educational institutions. See Note 17, Segment Reporting in the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. e Plus inc. does not engage in any business other than serving as the parent holding company for the following operating companies: Technology e Plus Technology, inc.; e Plus Software, LLC; e Plus Technology Netherlands B.V.; e Plus Technology Services, inc.; e Plus Cloud Services, inc.; SLAIT Consulting, LLC; IGXGlobal UK Limited; CloudUno Consulting India Private Limited; Cloud Uno Pte. Ltd.; and e Plus EMEA, inc. Ltd. Financing e Plus Group, inc.; e Plus Government, inc.; e Plus Canada Company; e Plus Capital, inc.; e Plus Financing Netherlands B.V.; e Plus Iceland, inc.; and IGX Capital UK, Ltd. We began using the name e Plus inc. in 1999 after changing our name from MLC Holdings, Inc. e Plus Technology, inc. is the primary entity that conducts our technology sales and services business. 3 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS We are a leading solutions provider that delivers actionable outcomes for organizations by using IT and consulting solutions to drive business agility and innovation. Leveraging our engineering talent, we assess, plan, deliver, and secure solutions comprised of leading technologies and consumption models aligned with our customers needs. Our expertise and experience enable e Plus to craft optimized solutions that take advantage of the cost, scale and efficiency of private, public and hybrid cloud in an evolving market. We also provide consulting, professional and managed services, IT staff augmentation, and complete lifecycle management services including flexible financing and solutions in the areas of security, cloud, networking, data center, collaboration and emerging technologies. We have been in the business of selling, leasing, financing, and managing IT and other assets for nearly 30 years. Our primary focus is to deliver integrated solutions that address our customers business needs, leveraging the appropriate technologies, both on-premise and in the cloud. Our approach is to lead with advisory consulting to understand our customers needs, design, deploy and manage solutions aligned to their objectives. Underpinning the broader areas of Cloud, Security, Networking, Data Center and Collaboration are specific skills in orchestration and automation, application modernization, DevOps, data management, data visualization, analytics, network modernization, edge compute and other advanced and emerging technologies. These solutions are comprised of world class leading technologies from partners such as Amazon Web Services, Arista Networks, Check Point, Cisco Systems, Citrix, Commvault, Dell EMC, F5 Networks, Gigamon, HPE, Juniper Networks, Lenovo, Microsoft, NetApp, Nutanix, NVIDIA, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pure Storage, Rubrik, Splunk, and VMware, among many others. We possess top-level engineering certifications with a broad range of leading IT vendors that enable us to offer multi-vendor IT solutions that are optimized for each of our customers specific requirements. Our hosted, proprietary software solutions are focused on giving our customers more control over their IT supply chain, by automating and optimizing the procurement and management of their owned, leased, and consumption-based assets. Our scale and financial resources have enabled us to continue investing in engineering and technology resources to stay on the forefront of technology trends. Our expertise in core and emerging technologies, buttressed by our robust portfolio of consulting, professional, and managed services, has enabled e Plus to remain a trusted advisor for our customers. In addition, we offer a wide range of consumption options including leasing and financing for technology and other capital assets. We believe our lifecycle approach offering of integrated solutions, services and financing, asset management and our proprietary supply chain software, is unique in the industry. This broad portfolio enables us to deliver a unique customer experience that spans the continuum from fast delivery of competitively priced products, services, subsequent management and upkeep, through to end-of-life disposal services. This approach permits e Plus to deploy sophisticated solutions enabling our customers business outcomes. Our go-to-market strategy focuses primarily on diverse end-markets for middle market to large enterprises. For the year ended March 31, 2020, the percentage of revenue by customer end market within our technology segment includes 21% for the technology industry, 19% for the telecommunications, media and entertainment industry, 16% for state and local government, and educational institutions, 15% for healthcare, and 13% for financial services. Sales to Verizon represented 15% of our net sales for the year ended March 31, 2020. Sales to no one customer exceeded 10% of net sales for the year ended March 31, 2019. Sales to Apple Inc. represented 12% of our net sales for the year ended March 31, 2018. Most of our sales were generated within the United States (US); however, we support our customers nationally and internationally including physical locations in the United Kingdom (UK), India, and Singapore, which were established by acquisitions in December 2015 and May 2017, respectively. Our technology segment accounted for 96% of our net sales, and 65% of our operating income, while our financing segment accounted for 4% of our net sales, and 35% of our operating income for the year ended March 31, 2020. 4 Table of Contents OUR INDUSTRY BACKGROUND AND MARKET OPPORTUNITY We have identified and focused on several specific trends that we believe will create higher growth in the broader US IT market: Multi-Cloud Strategy. Over the past several years, public, private and hybrid cloud architectures and cloud-enabled frameworks have become a core foundation of modern IT. Our strategy is to assist our customers in aligning cloud strategy with business objective, creating an enterprise cloud foundation, enabling multi-cloud capabilities, accelerating cloud migrations, and optimizing cloud deployments along with their associated costs. This strategy leverages our strength in deploying private clouds, extending them to public cloud and incorporating the necessary elements of networking and security. By understanding our customers environment, applications, and business requirements, we deploy solutions that leverage the most appropriate technology on the most appropriate platform with the most appropriate consumption model. For example, we may build a private cloud solution to host mission critical applications, while utilizing a public cloud solution for development, collaboration, or disaster recovery. As the market matures, we will continue to build and acquire skills that align with agile development (DevOps), application refactoring, and analytics. Our cloud strategy is tightly aligned with all our key strategic initiatives, including data center, security, networking, collaboration, and emerging technology. Increasing sophistication and incidences of IT security breaches and cyber-attacks. Over the last decade, cyber-attacks have become more sophisticated, numerous, and invasive. Organizations are finding it increasingly difficult to effectively safeguard their information assets from a constant stream of advanced threats. Cyber-threats have shifted from uncoordinated individual efforts to highly coordinated and well-funded attacks by criminal organizations and nation-state actors. Additional drivers include data privacy concerns of both user data and machine data as companies continue to pursue digital transformation efforts. For most organizations, it is no longer a matter of if a cyber-attack will occur; the question is when and what impact it will have on the organization. We believe our customers are focused on all aspects of cyber security, including information and physical security, data protection, intellectual property, and compliance requirements related to industry and government regulations. To meet current and future security threats, enterprises must implement security controls and technology solutions that leverage integrated products and services to help monitor, mitigate, and remediate security threats and attacks while ensuring a data-centric security model . Security products and services were 19.3%, 19.5% and 18.6%, respectively, of our total adjusted gross billings the years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. Disruptive technologies are creating complexity and challenges for customers and vendors. The rapid evolution of disruptive technologies, and the speed by which they impact organizations IT platforms, has made it difficult for customers to effectively design, procure, implement, and manage their own IT systems. Moreover, increased budget pressures, fewer internal resources, a fragmented vendor landscape and fast time-to-value expectations make it challenging for customers to design, implement and manage secure, efficient, and cost-effective IT environments. Customers are increasingly turning to IT solutions providers such as e Plus to implement complex IT offerings, including managed services, software defined infrastructure, cloud computing, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, big data analytics, and flash storage. Customer IT decision-making is shifting from IT departments to line-of- business personnel. As IT consumption shifts from legacy, on-premise infrastructure to agile on-demand and as-a-service solutions, customer procurement decisions are shifting from traditional IT personnel to lines-of-business personnel, which is changing the customer engagement model and types of consultative services required to fulfill customer needs. In addition, many of the services create recurring revenue streams payable over time, rather than upfront revenue. Lack of sufficient internal IT resources at mid-sized and large enterprises, and scarcity of IT personnel in certain high-demand disciplines . We believe that IT departments at mid-sized and large enterprises are facing pressure to deliver emerging technologies and business outcomes but lack the properly trained staff and the ability to hire personnel with high in-demand disciplines such as security and data analytics. At the same time the prevalence of security threats, increased use of cloud computing, software-defined networking, new architectures, and rapid software development frameworks, the proliferation of mobile devices and bring-your-own-device (BYOD) policies, and complexity of multi-vendor solutions, have made it difficult for IT departments to implement high-quality IT solutions. 5 Table of Contents Reduction in the number of IT solutions providers . We believe that customers are seeking to reduce the number of solutions providers they do business with to improve supply chain and internal efficiencies, enhance accountability, improve supplier management practices, and reduce costs. As a result, customers are required to select IT solutions providers that can deliver complex multi-vendor IT solutions. Increasing need for third-party services. We believe that customers are relying on third-party service providers, such as e Plus, to manage significant aspects of their IT environment, from design, implementation, pre- and post-sales support, to maintenance, engineering, cloud management, security operations, and other services. COMPETITION The market for IT solutions is highly competitive, subject to macro-economic cycles and the entry of new competitors. Additionally, the consolidation of existing market participants can create significantly larger competitors and is also affected by disruptive technologies and other market activities of industry participants. We expect to continue to compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national, and international firms, including vendors, international, national, and regional resellers and service providers. Some of our competitors are direct marketers with little value add and sell products as commodities, which can place downward pressure on product pricing. In addition, many IT vendors may sell or lease directly to our customers, and our continued ability to compete effectively may be affected by the policies of such vendors. We face indirect competition from potential customers internal development efforts and must overcome potential customers reluctance to move away from legacy systems, processes, and solution providers. As IT consumption shifts from IT personnel and legacy infrastructure to line-of-business based outcomes using off-premise, on-demand, and cloud solutions, the legacy resale model is shifting from an upfront sale to a recurring revenue model. The leasing and financing markets are also competitive and subject to changing economic conditions and market activities of leading industry participants. We expect to continue to compete against local, regional, national, and international firms, including banks, specialty finance companies, private-equity asset managers, vendors captive finance companies, and third-party leasing companies. Banks and other large financial services companies sell directly to business customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, and may provide other financial or ancillary services that we do not provide. Vendor captive leasing companies may use internal transfer pricing to effectively lower lease rates and/or bundle equipment sales and leasing to provide highly competitive packages to customers. Third-party leasing companies may have deep customer relationships with contracts in place that are difficult to displace; however, these competitors typically do not provide the breadth of product, service, and software offerings that we provide to our customers. Our competitors also may have access to more capital to fund more originations than us. In all our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. OUR SOLUTIONS Technology Segment IT Sales: Our offerings consist of hardware, perpetual and subscription software, maintenance, software assurance, and internally provided and outsourced services. We believe that our customers view technology purchases as integrated solutions, rather than discrete product and service categories, and the majority of our sales are derived from integrated solutions involving our customers data center, network, security, and collaboration infrastructure. We hold various technical and sales-related certifications from leading manufacturers and software publishers, which authorizes us to market their products and enables us to provide advanced professional services. We actively engage with emerging vendors to offer their technologies to our customers. Our flexible platform and customizable catalogs facilitate the addition of new vendors products with minimal incremental effort. Advanced Professional and Managed Services: We provide a range of advanced professional and managed services to help our customers improve productivity, profitability, and revenue growth while reducing operating costs. Our solutions and services include the following: 6 Table of Contents ePlus managed services offer a flexible subscription model to monitor, manage, and maximize business critical technologiesincluding cloud, security, data center, mobility, and collaboration; Professional services focus on cloud infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, storage, hyper-converged infrastructure, and virtual desktop infrastructure, supported by security and managed services solutions; Security solutions help safeguard our customers business and information assets through the appropriate application of governance, technology and supporting services: Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) services help ensure customers are meeting governance and compliance requirements by leveraging regulatory frameworks, industry best practices, and supporting controls - thereby allowing customers to effectively identify, assess, and mitigate risk. Managed Security Services help customers strengthen their information security profile with industry-leading tools, technology and expertise - often at a fraction of the cost of in-house security resources. Services include Security Operations Center (SOC), Managed Detection and Response (MDR), and Incident Response (IR). ePlus Cloud Consulting Services (ECCS) is a suite of white-glove cloud services providing data protection via Cloud Managed Backup and Cloud Disaster Recovery, as well as hosting mission-critical workloads via Cloud Hosted Infrastructure. Staff augmentation services provide customers with flexible headcount options while allowing them to access talent, fill specific technology skill gaps, or provide short-term or long-term IT professional help, which also includes services, such as Virtual Chief Information Officer (vCIO) and Virtual Chief Information Security Officer (vCISO), used to complement existing personnel and build three-to-five-year IT roadmaps. Service Desk provides outsourced functions including but not limited to server and desktop support to respond to our customers business demands while minimizing overhead. Project management services enhance productivity and collaboration management and enable successful implementations and adoption of solutions for our customers. Financing Segment Leasing and Financing: We specialize in financing arrangements, including sales-type and operating leases; loans, and consumption-based financing arrangements; and underwriting and management of IT equipment and assets. Our financing operations include sales, pricing, credit, contracts, accounting, risk management, and asset management. We primarily finance IT equipment, communication-related equipment, and medical equipment. We may also finance industrial machinery and equipment, office furniture and general office equipment, transportation equipment, and other general business equipment. We offer our solutions both directly and through vendors. We offer enhanced financing solutions, and our business process services approach automates a significant portion of the IT procurement process and reduces our customers cost of doing business. The solution incorporates value-added services at every step in the process, including: Front-end processing, such as e Procurement, order aggregation, order automation, vendor performance measurement, ordering, reconciliation, and payment; Lifecycle and asset ownership services, including asset management, change management, and property tax filing; and End-of-life services such as equipment audit, removal, and disposal. 7 Table of Contents OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Large Addressable Market with Long-term Growth Opportunities Driven by Increasing IT Complexity We participate in the IT market focusing on the data center, network, cloud, security, virtualization, and mobility segments of the industry, facilitated by our professional and managed service solutions. We believe we are well-positioned in the IT solutions segment. The IT market in which we compete has been and likely will continue to be negatively impacted by COVID-19. Industry analysts growth estimates calendar year 2020 prior to COVID-19 have been retracted. COVID-19 is impacting demand globally and some of our customer end markets may be impacted more significantly than others. We are uncertain as to the extent and duration of the impact on the IT market. Our products and services target large enterprises, the approximately 30,000 1 middle market companies with revenues from $100 million to $1 billion, the over 90,000 2 state and local governmental organizations, larger school districts, and the over 4,300 3 higher educational institutions in the US, and those same markets in the UK. We believe IT organizations within these companies and organizations are facing pressure to deliver higher service levels with fewer resources, increasing their reliance on third parties who can provide complex, multi-vendor technology solutions, such as our company. Broad and Diverse Customer Base across a Wide Range of End Markets We have a broad and diverse customer base of over 3,500 customers across a wide range of end-markets, including education, financial services, healthcare, media and entertainment, state and local government, technology, and telecommunications. Differentiated Business Model Serving Entire IT Lifecycle Procurement, Solutions, Services, Software, Financing We believe we are a trusted IT advisor, delivering differentiated products and services to enable our customers to meet increasingly complex IT requirements. We are able to provide complete, turn-key solutions aligned to the entire IT lifecycle procurement, products, services, software, and financing. We provide upfront assessments, design and configuration capabilities, installation and implementation, and ongoing services to support our customers solutions. Deep Expertise in Advanced Technology to Address Cloud, Security, Digital Infrastructure and other Emerging IT Trends We believe our customers choose us for their complex IT infrastructure needs based on our track record of delivering best-of-breed solutions, value-added services, and close relationships with both established and emerging vendors. We focus on obtaining and maintaining top-level engineering certifications and professional services expertise in advanced technologies of strategic vendors and possess over 1,700 certifications that are leveraged to help our customers achieve positive business outcomes. Strategic Ability to Design and Integrate Cloud Solutions Across Multiple Vendors We believe our expertise across both Data Center and Cloud architectures allows us to provide differentiated offerings in assisting our customers with their journey to the cloud. Combined with our established practices in Networking and Security, we are uniquely poised to help customers adopt a multi-cloud strategy utilizing our cloud cost management framework to help overcome the inherent challenges. We leverage our strategic partnerships with leading vendors such as Amazon Web Services, Cisco Systems, Dell EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Microsoft Azure, NetApp, and VMware in conjunction with our professional, managed and lifecycle services to help our customers achieve their desired business outcomes. 1 NAICS Association, Count by Annual Sales Updated March 2020, https://www.naics.com/business-lists/counts-by-company-size/ 2 GovTech Navigator, 2019 US State and Local Governments by the Numbers, https://www.govtech.com/navigator/numbers/us-state---2019local-gov-by-the-numbers_121.html 3 U.S. News, A Guide to the Changing Number of U.S. Universities, https://www.usnews.com/education/best-colleges/articles/2019-02-15/how-many-universities-are-in-the-us-and-why-that-number-is-changing 8 Table of Contents Proven Track Record of Successfully Integrating Acquisitions and Accelerating Growth We view acquisitions as an important factor in our strategic growth plan. Since 1997, we have successfully integrated 28 acquisitions. Most recently, we have been active in tuck-in acquisitions to broaden our product offerings, sector reach, and geographic footprint, with recent acquisitions including: Innovative Technology Systems & Solutions, Inc. (ABS Technology) acquired in August 2019 is a Virginia Beach, Virginia- headquartered solutions provider with deep expertise in managed services, networking, collaboration, and security solutions. ABS Technology enhances ePlus existing solutions portfolio and market position in Richmond and southern Virginia. SLAIT Consulting, LLC (SLAIT) acquired in January 2019 is an IT consulting and solutions provider with a focus on security advisory and managed services, managed help desk, specialized IT, staffing augmentation, and data center solutions. The acquisition solidifies e Plus footprint in the Mid-Atlantic and extends e Plus security consulting and managed services capabilities. SLAIT brings e Plus additional consultative services in the area of GRC (governance, risk management, and compliance), customized help desk and managed services solutions, as well as a number of relationships with fast-growing emerging vendors and related sales and engineering capabilities. Integrated Data Storage, LLC (IDS) acquired in September 2017, is an advanced data center solution provider focused on cloud enablement and managed services, including its proprietary IDS Cloud. The acquisition expands e Plus footprint in the Midwest and enhances its sales and engineering capabilities in cloud services, disaster recovery and backup as a service, storage, data center, and professional services. OneCloud Consulting, Inc. (OneCloud) acquired in May 2017, is a deployment, cloud consulting, and training company. The acquisition, based in Milpitas, California, with operations in the US and India, provides us with additional ability to address customers needs in cloud-based solutions and infrastructure, including DevOps, OpenStack, and other emerging technologies, to our broad customer base. The company empowers organizations to design, deploy, and scale cutting-edge technologies to support the next phase of their business. Specialized training courses are tailored to drive end-user technology adoption and workshop offerings range from Automation to Cloud, Infrastructure, DevOps, and OpenStack as well as emerging technologies in the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning space. Consolidated Communications IT services and integration business (Consolidated IT Services), acquired in December 2016, provides data center, unified communications, networking, and security solutions, as well as expanded our sales presence in the upper Midwest. IGX Acquisition Global, LLC, and IGX Support, LLC, including IGX Acquisitions wholly-owned subsidiary, IGXGlobal UK Limited (collectively, IGX) acquired in December 2015. Expanded our sales presence in New York and New England, as well as an operating branch in London that serves the UK and global customers. We generally integrate acquired firms into the e Plus platform immediately, which allows us to maintain customers and vendor relationships, retain key employees from acquired firms, and accelerate growth. We continue to review new acquisition opportunities to expand our global footprint and expand our offerings, however, due to the uncertain impact from the COVID-19 pandemic we may have additional criteria to evaluate each acquisition. Financial Performance Characterized by Growth and Profitability We have focused on achieving top-line revenue growth while maintaining industry-leading gross margins with a compound annual growth rate of 6.7% on net sales and 9.9% for consolidated gross profit, respectively, from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2020. Through our organic expansion and acquisitions, we have increased our employee base by 69.1% from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2020. The increase in our employee base has largely been in customer facing roles, which increased by 92.0% over the same period, as we continue to build our sales and services team while leveraging our operational infrastructure. 9 Table of Contents GROWTH STRATEGY Our goal is to continue to grow as a leading provider of technology solutions. The key elements of our strategy include the following: Be Our Customers Partner of Choice for Comprehensive IT and Lifecycle Solutions, Including Consulting, Managed and Professional Services, and Financing We seek to become the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers, whether on-premise, cloud, or managed services-based. We strive to provide excellent customer service, pricing, availability, and advanced professional and managed services in an efficient manner. We believe the increasing complexity of the IT ecosystem and the emergence of new technologies and vendors are factors that will lead to a growing demand from existing customers. We have a large number of experienced pre-sales engineers engage with customers about the most advanced technologies. Our account executives are trained on our broad solutions capabilities with access to many, category-focused subject-matter experts, which allow them to sell in a consultative business outcome-based manner that increases the likelihood of cross-selling our solutions. Our account executives are supported by experienced and professional inside sales representatives. We believe that our bundled offerings are an important differentiating factor from our competitors. We focus on gaining top-level engineering certifications and professional services expertise in advanced technologies of strategic vendors. This expertise helps our customers develop their cloud capabilities including private, public, and hybrid infrastructures. We are providing virtual desktop infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, security, storage, big-data, mobility, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, and managed services offerings, all of which remain in high demand. We believe our ability to deliver advanced professional services provides benefits in two ways. First, we gain recognition and mindshare of our strategic vendor partners and become the go-to partner in selected regional markets as well as the national market. This significantly increases direct and referral sales opportunities for our products and services and allows us to offer competitive pricing levels. Second, within our existing and potential customer base, our advanced professional services are a key differentiator against competitors who cannot provide services or advanced services for these key technologies or across multiple vendor product lines. Our managed services portfolio expanded this year to include Managed SDWAN, Service Desk, Carrier Expense Management, Cloud Cost Optimization, Vulnerability Management as a Service (VMaas), Nutanix and Aruba monitoring and management. We have further increased our breadth and depth of engineering expertise through the integration of SLAIT and ABS Technology, supplementing our Cisco service offerings, expanding our Netapp SSC/EMS portfolio, and security solutions releases. We have also enhanced our Managed Services and consolidated all ePlus annuity-based service solutions into a single service management platform to enhance customer experience. Likewise, we have increased automation of Service Level Target reporting to ensure remediation and response are top-of-mind. Build Our Geographic Footprint We intend to increase our direct sales and go-to-market capabilities in each of our geographic areas. We actively seek to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales, electronic commerce, leveraging our partnerships with vendors, and targeted demand-generation activities to increase awareness of our solutions. We also seek to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, and improve our technology and professional services delivery capabilities. During the last fiscal year, we continued to expand our sales and delivery capabilities across multiple international markets as we see more demand for solutions within this market. Recruit, Retain, and Develop Employees Based on our prior experience, capital structure, and business systems and processes, we believe we are well positioned to hire experienced sales people and engineers, make strategic acquisitions that expand our customer facing talent, broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, scale our existing operating structure, and/or enhance our product and service offerings. Part of our growth strategy is to hire purposefully and enhance our technical and skill base through strategic acquisitions. Improve Operational Efficiencies We continue to invest in our internal technology infrastructure and software platforms to optimize our operations and engage in process re-engineering efforts to become more streamlined and cost effective. 10 Table of Contents RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We incur software development costs associated with maintaining, enhancing, or upgrading our proprietary software, which may be performed by internal IT development resources or by an offshore software-development company that we use to supplement our internal development team or various US-based consultants. SALES AND MARKETING We focus our sales and marketing efforts on becoming the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers. We seek to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales, leveraging our partnerships with manufacturers and targeted direct marketing to increase awareness of our solutions.. We target middle market and large commercial entities and state and local governments, and educational institution. We currently have over 3,500 customers. We undertake direct marketing and leverage digital marketing and social media campaigns to target certain markets in conjunction with our primary vendor partners, who may provide financial reimbursement, outsourced services, and personnel to assist us in these efforts. Our sales representatives are compensated by a combination of salary and commission, with commission becoming the primary component of compensation as the sales representatives gain experience. To date, we acquired a majority of our customers through the efforts of our direct sales force and acquisitions. We market to different areas within a customers organization, including business units as well as the IT department, or finance department, depending on the solutions. As of March 31, 2020, our sales force consisted of 605 sales, marketing and sales support personnel organized regionally in 38 offices or warehouses and customer locations throughout the US, UK, India, and Singapore. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Our success depends in part upon proprietary business methodologies and technologies that we have licensed and modified. We own certain software programs or have entered into software licensing agreements to provide services to our customers. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret protection, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our documentation and other written materials and confidential corporate information under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. For example, we currently have patents in the US and Canada. We cannot provide assurance that any patents, as issued, will prevent the development of competitive products or that our patents will not be successfully challenged by others or invalidated through the administrative process or litigation. Our trademarks include e +, e Plus, Procure+, Manage+, Docpak, Viewmark, OneSource, Where Technology Means More and GRIT: Girls Re-Imagining Tomorrow in the US, and IGXGlobal in Great Britain and the European Union (EU). We intend to use and protect these and our other marks, as we deem necessary. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are an important factor in the marketing of our products. In addition to our trademarks, we have service marks and over 20 registered copyrights and additional common-law trademarks and copyrights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our proprietary intellectual property. FINANCIAL AND RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Inventory Management : We have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our vendors and distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without taking physical delivery of the equipment. Ingram Micro, Arrow Enterprises, Tech Data, and Synnex Corporation are our largest distributors. Using the distribution systems available, we frequently sell products that are shipped from the vendors or distributors directly to our customers location, which allows us to keep our inventory of any product and shipping expenses to a minimum. For the year ended March 31, 2020, our four largest distributors accounted for over 30% of our purchases related to our technology segment net sales. 11 Table of Contents Risk Management and Process Controls : We use and maintain conservative underwriting policies and disciplined credit approval processes in both our technology and financing segments. We have an executive management review process and other internal controls in place to evaluate transactions potential risk. In our technology segment, we manage our risk by using conservative credit quality analysis and periodic monitoring of customer financial results or third-party risk evaluation tools; monitoring customer accounts receivable balances and payment history; proactively pursuing delinquent accounts; ensuring we have appropriate contractual terms and conditions; perfecting security interests when practicable; requiring prepayment or deposits if indicated; performing fraud checks for new accounts; and evaluating general economic as well as industry specific trends. Our systems automatically decrease trade credit lines based on assigned risk ratings. In our financing segment, we manage our risk in assets we finance by assigning the contractual payments due under the financing arrangement to third-parties. We also use agency purchase orders to procure equipment for lease to our customers and otherwise take measures to minimize our inventory of financed assets. When our technology segment is the supplier of the assets being financed, we retain certain procurement risks. Our financing arrangements with our customers are generally fixed-rate. As a result of COVID-19, we have tightened our credit lines with many of our customers, particularly in the customer end markets under significant duress such as retail. Some customers have requested extended terms which we are assessing on a case by case basis. In our financing segment, we reduced our exposure by transferring certain transactions on a non-recourse basis. Credit Risk Loss Experience : During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $1,004 thousand and incurred actual credit losses of $429 thousand. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $335 thousand and incurred actual credit losses of $385 thousand. BACKLOG We rely on our vendors or distributors to fulfill a large majority of our shipments to our customers. As of March 31, 2020, we recorded customer commitments to purchase products or services that remain open until either executed or canceled (open orders) of $277.6 million and deferred revenue of $72.2 million. As of March 31, 2019, we had open orders of $161.4 million and deferred revenues of $61.0 million. We expect that most of open orders as of March 31, 2020, will be recognized within ninety days of that date. We also expect that 77% of the deferred revenues as of March 31, 2020, will be recognized within the next twelve months. EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2020, we employed 1,579 employees who operated through 38 offices or warehouses, home offices, and customer sites. No employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe that we have good relations with our employees. The functional areas of our employees are as follows: March 31, 2020 2019 Change Sales and Marketing 605 547 58 Professional Services 666 670 (4 ) Administration 212 230 (18 ) Software Development and Internal IT 89 83 6 Management 7 7 - 1,579 1,537 42 US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the US SEC, are available free of charge through our Internet website, www.eplus.com , as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents on or accessible through these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 12 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who was an executive officer of e Plus on March 31, 2020. There are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of e Plus. Name Age Position Mark P. Marron 58 Chief Executive Officer, President, and Director Elaine D. Marion 52 Chief Financial Officer Darren Raiguel 49 Chief Operating Officer and ePlus Technology, inc. President The business experience of each executive officer of e Plus is described below: Mark Marron Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Mark P. Marron became the Chief Executive Officer and President of e Plus inc. on August 1, 2016. He began his career at e Plus in 2005 as Senior Vice President of Sales and became Chief Operating Officer in 2010. A 30-year plus industry veteran, he was formerly with NetIQ where he held the position of Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Services. Prior to joining NetIQ, Mr. Marron served as General Manager of Worldwide Channel Sales for Computer Associates International Inc., a provider of software and services that enables organizations to manage their IT environments. Mr. Marron has extensive experience throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Montclair State University. Elaine Marion Chief Financial Officer Elaine D. Marion joined us in 1998. Ms. Marion became our Chief Financial Officer on September 1, 2008. From 2004 to 2008, Ms. Marion served as our Vice President of Accounting. Prior to that, she was the Controller of e Plus Technology, inc., a subsidiary of e Plus, from 1998 to 2004. Ms. Marion currently serves on the Advisory Board of the School of Business at the University of Mary Washington and as a member of the George Mason University School of Business Deans Advisory Council. Ms. Marion is a graduate of George Mason University, where she earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting. Darren Raiguel Chief Operating Officer and ePlus Technology inc. President Darren S, Raiguel joined the company in 1997 as an account executive and has held numerous management positions in the organization for well over a decade. Mr. Raiguel became our Executive Vice President of Technology Sales, and in May 2018 was promoted to Chief Operating Officer of e Plus inc. and President of e Plus Technology, inc. Mr. Raiguel received a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Temple University, with dual majors in Marketing and Finance. He has participated in numerous industry organizations, councils, and advisory boards throughout his career. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Actual or anticipated epidemics, pandemics, outbreaks, or other public health crises may adversely affect our customers financial condition and the operations of our business. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the impact of the disease caused by the novel coronavirus, COVID-19, which was recently declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization, or the actual or public perception of the risks related to any epidemic, pandemic, outbreak, or other public health crisis. The risk of COVID-19 pandemic, or public perception of the risks associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, could cause customers to delay or cancel orders, and could cause temporary or long-term disruptions in our supply chains and/or delays in the delivery of our products and services to our customer. Quarantines or other cancellations of public events as well as governmental containment actions could also adversely affect our customers financial condition, resulting in reduced spending for the products and services we sell or uncollectible accounts receivable, leases or notes receivable. Moreover, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a high percentage of our employees working from home, which could adversely affect our ability to adequately staff and manage our businesses. Risks or regulations related to an epidemic, pandemic or other health crisis, such as COVID-19, could also lead to the complete or partial closure of one or more of our offices or configuration centers or the operations of our customers or our sourcing partners. Office closures of our customers may reduce our ability to provide onsite professional services and staffing. The ultimate extent to which the current COVID-19 pandemic will affect the financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity and duration of the current pandemic. We began monitoring the COVID-19 outbreak and following the guidance of public health authorities in January 2020. In March 2020, we put in place a number of protective measures in response to the COVID-19 outbreak that is taking place world-wide. These measures include having employees work from home to the extent their job function enables them to do so, cancelling all non-essential business travel, asking some employees to self-quarantine at home, adjusting our facilities janitorial and sanitary policies. We may include various health-related measures, such as requiring employees and visitors to undergo a health screening or wear a mask. In addition, our employees may have health issues related to COVID-19 and may have unpredictable work schedules due to childcare responsibilities as many schools and childcare centers are closed. We are regularly revisiting the measures we are taking in response to the evolving COVID-19 pandemic, and we are likely to take additional action in response to the various requirements and recommendations of governmental and other health authorities. In addition, as Stay at Home orders by state and local governments are lifted or changed, additional risk may arise, including infections within our employee base, office closures, and/or closures at customers sites. These existing measures and any future actions, such as additional or renewed Stay at Home orders, may result in a disruption to our business. As a high percentage of our employees are working from home due to COVID-19, we are highly reliant on the availability and functionality of our information systems to enable our operations. Working from home may increase risk of data loss. If our information systems are not operational for reasons which may include cyber security attacks, data center failures, failures by telecom providers to provide service to our business and to our employees homes, power failures, or failures of off-premise software such as SaaS based software, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. As our employees return to the workplace, we may face challenges implementing newly required processes technologies, and procedures specific to COVID-19, including paid time off laws and health screening. Additionally, as the facts, guidance and perception are rapidly changing, we may face challenges responding to actual or possible COVID-19 exposure in the workplace, training managers to address an anticipated uptick in leave and accommodation issues, and issuing corporate communications to effectively assuage and respond to employee concerns regarding COVID-19. General economic weakness may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations are largely dependent upon the state of the economy. Global economic weakness and uncertainty may result in decreased sales, gross margin, earnings and/or growth rates from our US based customers and from customers outside the US. For example, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the economic impact of the Referendum on the UKs Membership of the European Union (EU) (referred to as Brexit). In June 2016, the United Kingdom (the UK) held a referendum in which voters opted for the countrys exit from the EU, Consistent with the outcome of this referendum, the UK left the EU on January 31, 2020. Thus, the UK is no longer a member of the EU; however, the UK will continue to be subject to EU rules and remain a member of the single market and customs union during an implementation period. The implementation period runs to December 31, 2020, but may be extended for up to two years. The UK government is negotiating with the EU on trade and other terms for such exit. Leaving without any agreement on such terms would lead to disruption to UK/EU trade. The uncertainty concerning Brexit has also caused global stock market volatility and currency exchange rate fluctuations that resulted in strengthening of the US dollar relative to other foreign currencies in which we conduct business. The impact of Brexit could adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents If we lost one or more of our large volume customers, our earnings may be affected. The contracts for the provision of products and services from us to our customers are generally non-exclusive agreements without volume purchase commitments and are terminable by either party upon 30 days notice. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, the failure of such customers to pay amounts due to us, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our accounts receivable-trade balance as of March 31, 2020, included approximately 20% concentration of invoices due from Verizon. We depend on having creditworthy customers to avoid an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our financing and technology segments require sufficient amounts of debt or equity capital to fund our equipment purchases. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the required capital for our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. As a result of COVID-19, many of our customers may be susceptible to economic slowdowns or recessions and may be unable to pay for their purchases or repay the leases or note receivable to us or repayment may be extended by our customers or us. Therefore, our non-performing assets may increase, and the value of our portfolio may decrease during these periods as we are required to record our investments at their current fair value. Adverse economic conditions also may decrease the value of collateral securing some of our loans and the value of our equity investments. Economic slowdowns or recessions could lead to financial losses in our portfolio and a decrease in revenues, net income and assets in our financing segment. Unfavorable economic conditions also could increase our financing segments funding costs, limit our access to the capital markets or result in a decision by lenders not to extend credit to us. These events could prevent us from increasing our financing portfolio and harm our operating results. The recent global outbreak of COVID-19 has disrupted economic markets and the prolonged economic impact is uncertain. Some economists and major investment banks have expressed concern that the continued spread of the virus globally will lead to a world-wide economic downturn, which could have an adverse economic effect on the companies and state and local government and educational institution (SLED) organizations for which we provide products, services and financing. As of March 31, 2020, and 2019, we had reserves for credit losses of $3.2 million and $2.6 million, respectively. The terms of our Credit Facility or lines of credit with our vendors or loss thereof may restrict our current and future operations, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our technology segment, through our subsidiary e Plus Technology, inc., finances its operations with funds generated from operations, and with a credit facility with Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance, LLC or WFCDF. This facility provides short-term capital for our technology segment. There are two components of the WFCDF credit facility: (1) a floor plan component and (2) an accounts receivable component. As of March 31, 2020, the facility agreement had an aggregate limit of the two components of $300 million, and the accounts receivable component had a sub-limit of $75 million, which bears interest assessed at a rate of the One Month LIBOR plus two and one-half percent. The loss of the technology segments credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and the operational function of our accounts payable process. Our credit agreement contains various covenants that must be met each quarter and either party may terminate the agreement for any reason with a 90-days notice. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those covenants and failure to do so may limit availability of, or cause us to lose, such financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available to us in the future on acceptable terms. 15 Table of Contents COVID-19 may negatively impact our lenders willingness to extend credit to us at the current credit limit or an increase in credit limit thus restricting our working capital. We also have lines of credit with our vendors for the purchase of goods and services for resale or internal use with terms including net 15, net 30, net 45, net 60 and net 90. The loss or decrease of our working capital facility or lines of credit with our vendors may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The uncertainty regarding the potential phase-out of LIBOR may negatively impact our operating results . LIBOR, the interest rate benchmark used as a reference rate on our credit facility variable rate debt is expected to be phased out after 2021, when private-sector banks are no longer required to report the information used to set the rate. Without this data, LIBOR may no longer be published, or the lack of quality and quantity of data may cause the rate to no longer be representative of the market. At this time, no consensus exists as to what rate or rates will become accepted alternatives to LIBOR, although the US Federal Reserve, in connection with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large US financial institutions, is considering replacing US dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). SOFR is a more generic measure than LIBOR and considers the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by US Treasury securities. Given the inherent differences between LIBOR and SOFR or any other alternative benchmark rate that may be established, there are many uncertainties regarding a transition from LIBOR, including but not limited to the need to amend all contracts with LIBOR as the referenced rate and how this will impact the our cost of variable rate debt. We will also need to consider new contracts and whether the contracts should reference an alternative benchmark rate or include suggested fallback language, as published by the Alternative Reference Rates Committee. The consequences of these developments with respect to LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted and span multiple future periods but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt which may be detrimental to our financial position or operating results. We rely on a small number of key vendors, and do not have long- term supply or guaranteed price agreements or assurance of stock availability with our vendors. A substantial portion of our revenue within our technology segment depends on a small number of key vendors. Products manufactured by Cisco Systems represented approximately 40%, 42%, and 42% of our technology segment net sales for the years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. Products manufactured by NetApp, Hewlett Packard, Juniper Networks, Dell/EMC, and Arista Networks, represented approximately 21% - 24% of technology segment net sales for the last three years. Risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic or other health crisis could also lead to the complete or partial closure of one or more of the operations of our sourcing partners, resulting in disruptions of our supply chain or distribution channels . The ultimate extent of the impact of any epidemic, pandemic or other health crisis on our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted; including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the current COVID-19 pandemic and actions taken to contain or prevent its further spread, among others. If we experience significant supply chain disruptions, we may not be able to develop alternate sourcing quickly on favorable terms, if at all, which could result in increased costs, loss of sales and a loss of customers, and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry frequently experiences periods of product shortages from our vendors or our vendors distributors as a result of our vendors difficulties in projecting demand for certain products we sell; additional trade law provisions or regulations; additional duties, tariffs or other charges on imports or exports; natural disasters affecting our suppliers facilities; and significant labor disputes. As we do not stock inventory that is not related to an order we have received from our customer, we depend upon the supply of products available from our vendors to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis. The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of these or any other key vendor partners, the diminished availability of their products, or backlogs for their products leading to manufacturer allocation could reduce the supply and increase the cost of products we sell and negatively impact our competitive position. The loss of a key vendor or changes in its policies could adversely impact our financial results. Violations of a contract that results in either the termination of our ability to sell the product or a decrease in our certification level with the vendor could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, a reduction in the trade credit lines or the favorable terms granted to us by our vendors and financial partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We depend on third-party companies to perform certain of our obligations to our customers, which if not performed adequately could cause significant disruption to our business. We rely on arrangements with third-parties to perform certain professional services, staffing services, managed services, warranties, configuration services, and other services for our customers. If these third-parties do not perform these in accordance with the terms of our agreement and of a professional standard customary for the services, or if they cause disruption of or security weaknesses in our customers businesses, results to our organization could include legal claims and associated costs, monetary damages paid to our customers, and an adverse effect on our customer relationships, our brand, and our reputation, and our results of operations or cash flows could be affected. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver products from us and our vendors to our customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges that may result from economic, supply-chain, geopolitical, or other disruptions. COVID-19 has disrupted shipping lanes globally due to a variety of issues including significantly less air transportation, Stay at Home orders which affect port operations or other carrier operations, shippers prioritization of packages needed to combat COVID-19, and shippers employees becoming ill with the virus. In addition, governmental containment actions including Stay at Home orders may impact third-parties to perform services for our customers. We may incorrectly import or export products when shipping to and from different countries. Violation of trade laws may disrupt our international operations negatively or impair our reputation or we may incur monetary damage. Violation of trade laws may also result in audits, fines, penalties, litigation, or administrative enforcement actions with associated costs. Changes in the IT industry, customers usage or procurement of IT, and/or rapid changes in product standards may result in reduced demand for the IT hardware and software solutions and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products, upgrades, methods of distribution, and the nature of how IT is consumed and procured. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, product enhancements and new distribution methods or channels, each of which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. In addition, the proliferation of cloud technology, IaaS, SaaS, platform as a service (PaaS), software defined networking, or other emerging technologies may reduce the demand for products and services we sell to our customers. Cloud offerings may influence our customers to move workloads to cloud providers, which may reduce the procurement of products and services from us. Changes in the IT industry may also affect the demand for our advanced professional and managed services. We have invested a significant amount of capital in our strategy to provide certain products and services, and this strategy may adversely impact our financial position due to competition or changes in the industry or improper focus or selection of the products and services we decide to offer. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the competitiveness of their offerings and our ability to partner with new and emerging technology providers. The technology industry is characterized by rapid innovation and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced hardware, software and services offerings, such as cloud-based solutions, including IaaS, SaaS and PaaS. We depend on innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by our customers for the offerings we sell. A decrease in the rate of innovation by our vendors, or the lack of acceptance of innovations by our customers, or a shift by customers to technology platforms that we do not sell could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we are unable to keep up with changes in technology and new hardware, software and services offeringsfor example by not providing the appropriate training to our account managers, sales technology specialists and engineers to enable them to effectively sell and deliver such new offerings to customersour business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We also depend upon our vendors for the development and marketing of hardware, software and services to compete effectively with hardware, software and services of vendors whose products and services we do not currently offer or are not authorized to offer in one or more customer channels. In addition, our success depends on our ability to develop relationships with and sell hardware, software and services and emerging vendors, as well as vendors that we have not historically represented in the marketplace. To the extent that a vendors offering that is highly in demand is not available to us for resale in one or more customer channels, and there is not a competitive offering from another vendor that we are authorized to sell in such customer channels, or we are unable to develop relationships with new technology providers or companies that we have not historically represented, or we partner with a vendor that is not in demand or the demand for whose products significantly decreases, our business, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely impacted. We may fail to innovate or create new solutions which align with changing market and customer demand. As a provider of a comprehensive set of solutions, which involves the offering of bundled solutions consisting of direct IT sales, advanced professional and managed services, our propriety software, and financing, we expect to encounter some of the challenges, risks, difficulties, and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies providing bundled solutions in rapidly evolving markets. Some of these challenges include our ability to increase the total number of users of our services, adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments, or continue to update our technology to enhance the features and functionality of our suite of products. Our personnel must continually stay current with vendor and marketplace technology advancements, create solutions which may integrate evolving vendor products and services as well as services and solutions we provide, to meet changing marketplace and customer demand. Further, we may provide customized solutions and services that are solely reliant on our own marketing, design and fulfillment services, and we may lack the skills or personnel to execute or COVID-19 may impact our ability to innovate due to travel restrictions, staff availability, or closed lab or data center locations. Our failure to innovate and provide bespoke value to our customers may erode our competitive position, market share and lead to reduce revenue and financial performance. In the software market, a number of companies market business-to-business electronic commerce solutions similar to ours, and competitors are adapting their product offerings to a SaaS platform. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. We also face indirect competition from customers potential internal development efforts and have to overcome customers potential reluctance to move away from legacy systems and processes. In all of our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current competitors may have, and potential competitors may have, greater name recognition, engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing and credit policies than we do. We may not be successful in achieving revenue growth and may incur additional costs associated with our software products, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results as a whole. We may experience a reduction in incentives offered to us and earned by us from our vendors that would affect our earnings. We receive payments and credits from vendors, including consideration pursuant to volume incentive programs, shared marketing expense programs, and early pay discounts. These programs are usually of finite terms and may not be renewed or may be changed in a way that adversely affects us. Vendor funding is used to offset inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of purchases, growth rate of purchases, and marketing programs. If we do not grow our sales over prior periods, or if we do not comply with the terms of these programs, or do not sell certain products that earn the incentive, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by vendors. COVID-19 may affect our ability to meet these volume requirements and may affect our and our vendors ability to engage in marketing programs. We may not continue to receive such incentives or may not be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. Any sizeable reduction in, the discontinuance of, a significant delay in receiving, or the inability to collect such incentives, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of vendors, including the elimination of funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We may not have designed or maintained our IT systems or have adequate or competent IT personnel to support our business. We depend heavily upon the accuracy and reliability of our information, telecommunication, cybersecurity and other systems which are used for customer management, sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing and fulfillment, customer service and general accounting functions. We must continually maintain, secure and improve our systems. The protections we have in place address a variety of threats to our information technology systems, both internal and external, including human error. Inadequate security practices or design of our IT systems, or IT systems from third-parties which we utilize, or third-party service providers failure to provide adequate services could result in the disclosure of sensitive or confidential information or personal information or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Inadequate design or interruption of our information systems, Internet availability, telecommunications systems or power failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. As a high percentage of our workforce is currently working from home as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are highly reliant on the availability and functionality of our information systems to enable our operations. Working from home may increase risk of data loss, including privacy-related events. If our information systems are not operational for reasons which may include cyber security attacks, data center failures, failures by telecom providers to provide services to our business and to our employees homes, power failures, or failures of off-premise software such as SaaS based software, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. Our managed services business requires us to monitor our customers devices on their networks across varying levels of service. If we have not designed our IT systems to provide this service accurately or if there is a security breach in our IT system or the customers systems, we may be liable for claims. In addition, we rely on our managed services personnel to perform this service. Illness, including from COVID-19, or improper training, performance or supervision may negatively affect the services we provide our customers resulting in decreased revenue and the potential for litigation. We rely on the competency of our internal IT personnel. Our failure to hire, develop, retain, and supervise competent IT personnel to secure our data, or design and maintain resilient technology systems including our data and voice networks, infrastructure, and applications, could significantly interrupt our business causing a negative impact on our results. Rising interest rates or the loss of key lenders or the constricting of credit markets may affect our future profitability and our ability to monetize our financing investments. We finance transactions with our customers utilizing fix-rate borrowing. If we fund such transactions at inception with a third-party lender, we are able to lock an interest rate spread on the transaction between the customer rate and third-party rate. However, we may delay funding the transaction, and if interest rates increase in the interim, the interest rate spread will decrease, which will adversely impact our profitability, or we may not choose to fund the transaction due to higher interest rates, thus inhibiting our ability to monetize our portfolio to generate cash. We rely on lenders to fund financing transactions we originate with our customers. Loss of any lender or group of lenders may significantly impact our ability to originate financing transactions, which may negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, our lenders may no longer be willing to provide funding under our current terms and conditions and may demand new terms and conditions that negatively impact our ability to consummate a financing transaction with our customers. We are also subject to changes, if any, in our lenders willingness to provide financing for different, particularly lower, credit quality lessees. COVID-19 has resulted in a tightened credit market, which may impede our ability to fund on a recourse or non-recourse basis certain of our lesser credit quality customers or other general customers. This may result in less earnings, use of our own cash, or lesser credit quality in our financing portfolio. Breaches of data security and the failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats could adversely impact our business. Our business involves the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of our employees, customers and others. In addition, we operate data centers for our customers that host their technology infrastructure and may store and transmit both business-critical data and confidential information. In connection with our services business, some of our employees also have access to our customers confidential data and other information. We have privacy and data security policies in place that are designed to prevent security breaches; however, as newer technologies evolve, and the portfolio of the service providers with whom we share confidential information grows, we could be exposed to increased risk of breaches in security and other illegal or fraudulent acts, including cyberattacks. The evolving nature of such threats, in light of new and sophisticated methods used by criminals and cyberterrorists, including computer viruses, malware, phishing, misrepresentation, social engineering and forgery, are making it increasingly challenging to anticipate and adequately mitigate these risks. 19 Table of Contents As a result of COVID-19, a high percentage of our employees are working from home. As a result of employees desire to remain up-to-date on the virus and its impacts, there may be increased risks relating to cyber security in the form of malware, hacking or phishing schemes, as criminals and cyberterrorists attempt to steal passwords, cookies, and other sensitive data. In addition, the vulnerability of our employees home network may also increase this risk. We may be required to take impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets related to acquisitions. We have acquired certain portions of our business and assets through acquisitions. Further, as part of our long-term business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies or assets. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the book value of the assets acquired as goodwill or intangible assets, and we may be required to account for similar premiums paid on future acquisitions in the same manner. Under the applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to annual review and evaluation for impairment, whereas intangible assets are amortized over the life of the asset. Changes in the business itself, the economic environment (including business valuation levels and trends), or the legislative or regulatory environment may trigger a review and evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment outside of the normal review periods. These changes may adversely affect either the fair value of the business or our individual reporting units and we may be required to take an impairment charge. If market and economic conditions deteriorate as a result of COVID-19 or otherwise, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record impairment charges to the extent the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds the fair value of our overall business. Such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our net earnings during the period in which the charge is taken. As of March 31, 2020, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $118.1 million and $34.5 million, respectively. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease. The realization of the residual value of the equipment we lease, predominantly at the end of the term of a lease, as well as during the life of the lease, is an important element in our financing segment. At the inception of certain leases, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, excessive or unusual wear and tear on the equipment, or other factors, would adversely affect the recoverability of the estimated residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values are dependent on the vendors warranties, reputation, rules regarding relicensing of software to operate the equipment, and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Sales-type leases bear less risk because contractual payments typically cover 90% or more of the equipments lease cost at inception. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipments value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. The impact of COVID-19 may affect the fair value of our assets on lease and result in an impairment, loss or write off. Our earnings may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our earnings are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed herein . In the event our sales or net earnings are less than the level expected by the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. 20 Table of Contents Failure to comply with new laws or changes to existing laws may adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to numerous US and foreign laws and regulations in a number of areas including, but not limited to, areas of labor and employment, immigration, advertising, e-commerce, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, and environmental, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business, and the risk of noncompliance. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no certainty that against employees, contractors, or agents will fully comply with laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. In addition, many countries and state and local governments have issued Stay at Home orders to combat COVID-19. These orders may mandate or recommend office closures, telework, or health or safety actions, such as social distancing in the workplace, masks or health screening. The orders frequently change, and each order is different and must be interpreted and applied to the jurisdiction. Additional risk may arise from these orders as they are lifted or changed which may include infections in our employee base, office closures, closures at customers sites, and additional Stay at Home orders or mandated or recommended safety actions. Additionally, a large number of employment related regulations, such as leave and accommodation matters, have been issued by federal, state, and local governments. These regulations continue to undergo revisions. We may fail to interpret or follow the regulations or orders properly which may result in sanction, penalties, fines or litigation. We face substantial competition from other companies. In our technology segment, we compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national, and international firms, including other direct marketers; national and regional resellers; online marketplace competitors; and regional, national, and international service providers. In addition, we face competition from vendors, which may choose to market their products directly to end-users, rather than through channel partners such as our company, and this could adversely affect our future sales. Many competitors compete based principally on price and may have lower costs or accept lower selling prices than we do and, therefore, our gross margins may not be maintainable. Online marketplace competitors are continually improving their pricing and offerings to customers as well as ease of use of their online marketplaces. Our competitors may offer better or different products and services than we offer. In addition, we do not have guaranteed purchasing volume commitments from our customers and, therefore, our sales volume may be volatile. In our financing segment, we face competition from many sources including much larger companies with greater financial resources. Our competition may originate from vendors of the products we finance or financial partners who choose to market directly to customers through the vendors captive leasing organization or large or regional financial institutions such as banks with substantially lower cost of funds. Our competition may lower lease rates to increase market share. We may be liable for misuse of our customers or employees information. Third-parties, such as hackers, could circumvent or sabotage the security practices and products used in our product and service offerings, and/or the security practices or products used in our internal IT systems, which could result in disclosure of sensitive or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. As a high percentage of our employees are currently working from home as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are highly reliant on the availability and functionality of our information systems to enable for our operations. Working from home may increase risk of data loss, including privacy-related events. If our information systems are not operational for reasons which may include cyber security attacks, data center failures, failures by telecom providers to provide services to our business and to our employees homes, power failures, or failures of off-premise software such as SaaS based software, our business and financial results may be adversely impacted. If third-parties or our employees are able to maliciously penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers information or employees personal information, or other information for which our customers may be responsible and for which we agree to be responsible in connection with service contracts into which we may enter, or if we give third-parties or our employees improper access to certain information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized access to devices on our network; unauthorized access to our customers networks, hardware, applications, data, devices, or software; unauthorized purchases with credit card information; and identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of or inappropriate access to personal information. Other liability could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. Any such liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, federal and state agencies have been investigating various companies regarding whether they misused or inadequately secured information. We could incur additional expenses when new laws or regulations regarding the use, safeguarding, or privacy of information are enacted, or if governmental agencies require us to substantially modify our privacy or security practices. We could fail to comply with international and domestic data privacy laws, the violation of which may result in audits, fines, penalties, litigation, or administrative enforcement actions with associated costs. 21 Table of Contents Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the security practices we use to protect sensitive customer transaction information and employee information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Further, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user-names, passwords, or other information or otherwise compromise the security of our internal networks and/or our customers information. Since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and the size and severity of security breaches are increasing, we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures or timely identify or stop security breaches while they are occurring. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to remediate the subsequent risks and issues caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could cause us to incur significant expense to investigate and respond to a security breach and remediate any problems caused by any breach, subject us to liability, damage our reputation, and diminish the value of our brand. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage for errors and omissions or security breaches will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not adequately protect ourselves through our contract vehicles, or our insurance policies may not be adequate to address potential losses or claims. Our contracts may not protect us against the risks inherent in our business including, but not limited to, warranties, limitations of liability, indemnification obligations, human resources and subcontractor-related claims, patent and product liability, regulatory and compliance obligations, data security and privacy, and financing activities. Also, we face pressure from our customers for competitive pricing and contract terms. In addition, order cancellations by our customers may result from COVID-19 or the economic consequences thereof. If orders are cancelled and the equipment has shipped to us, we may have an increased risk of dispute resulting in non-payment. Such disputes may be complicated by novel legal arguments relating to contract enforceability, such as the application of force majeure, impossibility or impracticability of performance, and frustration of purpose. Despite the non-recourse nature of the loans financing certain of our activities, non-recourse lenders may file suit if the underlying transaction turns out poorly for the lenders. We are subject to such claims and the cost of defending such claims due to the nature of our business. We also are subject to audits by various vendor partners and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. Failure to comply with our public-sector contracts or applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, termination, fines or other liabilities, and changes in procurement regulations could adversely impact our business. Revenues in our public sector are derived from sales to SLED customers, through various contracts and open market sales of products and services. Sales to SLED customers are highly regulated. Noncompliance with contract provisions, government procurement regulations, or other applicable laws or regulations could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of SLED sector customer contracts, and suspension, debarment, or ineligibility from doing business with the government and other customers in the SLED sector. Contracts in the SLED sector are generally terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or upon default and are subject to audits. In addition, most contracts require successfully bidding and award of the contract. These bid processes can be complex and require extensive review of terms and conditions and data compilation. Multiple bidders may win a product category, which creates aggressive competition even after contract award. The effect of any of these possible actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations and other requirements may increase our compliance costs and reduce our gross margins, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Loss of services by any of our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement a succession plan could adversely affect our business. The loss of the services by our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement a succession plan could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies. We believe that our success depends in part upon our ability to retain the services of our executive officers and senior management and successfully implement a succession plan. Our executive officers are at the forefront in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of our executive officers and senior managements services without replacement by qualified successors could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies, and could cause other instability within our workforce We may not be able to hire and/or retain personnel that we need. To increase market awareness and sales of our offerings, we may need to expand our marketing efforts and sales operations in the future. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort and significant technical engineering talent. For example, our sales and engineering candidates must have highly technical hardware and software knowledge to create a customized solution for our customers business processes. Competition for qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel fluctuates depending on market conditions. Prior to COVID-19, the US was in a low unemployment environment which resulted in difficulties in hiring or retaining sufficient personnel to maintain and grow our business. COVID-19 has resulted in significant unemployment; however, we are uncertain as to the duration and severity of this impact on the employment environment in the future, or how that environment will impact our workforce. In addition, changes to immigration laws, prior to, because of, and subsequent to COVID-19, may impact our ability to hire or retain talent. Frequently, our competitors require their employees to agree to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements as part of their employment. This makes it more difficult for us to hire and increases our costs by reviewing and managing non-compete restrictions. Additionally, in some cases our relationship with a customer may be impacted by turnover in our sales or engineering team. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency. We have several foreign subsidiaries and conduct business in various countries and currencies. As result of these foreign operations, we have exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulting primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. While our consolidated financial statements are reported in US dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the US are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into US dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar relative to the functional currencies of our subsidiaries could cause fluctuations in our results of operations. Our operations in our foreign countries is insignificant. We also have foreign currency exposure to the extent net sales and purchases are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows. COVID-19 has had an effect on the global economy and as such may have or continue to have an effect on currency valuations which may cause currency losses for us. Changes in accounting standards, or the misapplication of current accounting standards, may adversely affect our future financial results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the US These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in noncash charges and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. In addition, any change in accounting standards may influence our customers decision to purchase from us or finance transactions with us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. 23 Table of Contents We are required to determine if we are the principal or agent in all transactions with our customers. The voluminous number of products and services we sell, and the manner in which they are bundled, are technologically complex. Mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition polices. We use estimates where necessary, such as the fair value of assets acquired, and liabilities assumed in a business combination, the analysis for goodwill impairment, allowance for doubtful accounts and the cost to perform professional and managed services, which require judgment and are based on best available information. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of these services or the timeline for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to perform sufficient due diligence prior to completing an acquisition, or entering into a strategic alliance, or fail to integrate a completed acquisition our earnings may be affected. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire, reduce costs, or leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth, could significantly impact future revenue and earnings. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge, may divert managements attention from other business concerns, and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our gross margins and return on investment. In addition, we may fail to perform adequate due diligence and acquire entities with unknown liabilities, fraud, cultural or business environment issues, or that may not have adequate internal controls as may be required by law. If we acquire a company that does not fit culturally, strategically, or in some other fashion, the acquisition may not produce the expected results or may negatively affect our reputation, which may negatively affect our business, results of operations, or cash flows. The unpredictability of the economic impact of COVID-19 will also make it difficult to properly value or anticipate the future success of acquisition targets and impact our overall growth strategy. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired; we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. If we publish inaccurate catalog content data, our business could suffer. Any defects or errors in our electronic catalog content data could harm our customers or deter businesses from participating in our offerings, damage our business reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, and potentially expose us to liability. In addition, from time to time vendors who provide us electronic catalog data could submit to us inaccurate pricing or other catalog data. Even though such inaccuracies are not caused by us and are outside of our control, such inaccuracies could deter current and potential customers from using our products or result in inaccurate pricing to our customers. If our proprietary software products contain defects, our business could suffer. Products as complex as those used to provide our electronic commerce solutions or cloud automation solutions, such as scripts, often contain unknown and undetected errors, performance problems, or use open source code. We may have serious defects immediately following introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future and certain errors we consider to be minor may be serious to our customers. Our software products, or automation solutions, may be circumvented or sabotaged by third-parties such as hackers, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive information or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats . In addition, our customers may experience a loss in connectivity to our proprietary software solutions because of a power loss at our data center, Internet interruption, or defects in our software. This could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance, security breaches, and unforeseen liabilities that would be detrimental to our reputation and to our business. We face risks of claims from third-parties for intellectual property infringement, including counterfeit products, that could harm our business. We may be subject to claims that our products and services, or products that we resell, infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties and/or are counterfeit products. The vendor of certain products or services we resell may not provide us with indemnification for infringement or indemnification; however, our customers may seek indemnification from us. We could incur substantial costs in defending infringement claims against ourselves and our customers. In the event such claims, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We may not be able to obtain such licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could significantly increase our expenses and/or adversely affect our ability to offer one or more of our services. 24 Table of Contents We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and costs to protect our intellectual property may affect our earnings. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, upon proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws, and contractual provisions with our customers, subcontractors and employees to protect our proprietary technology. It may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Some of our agreements with our customers and technology licensors contain residual clauses regarding confidentiality and the rights of third parties to obtain the source code for our products. These provisions may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in the future that could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. The legal and associated costs to protect our intellectual property may significantly increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may deem it necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and significant expenses could be incurred with no certainty of the results of these potential actions. Costs relative to lawsuits are usually expensed in the periods incurred and there is no certainty in recouping any of the amounts expended regardless of the outcome of any action. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about us and our industry. One or more analysts could downgrade our common stock, or issue other negative commentary about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts that publish research about us cease coverage, we could lose visibility in the market or such discontinuance may be viewed negatively by the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings, if any. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of March 31, 2020, we lease space for 38 offices or warehouses. Our total leased square footage as of March 31, 2020, was approximately 321 thousand square feet for which we incurred rent expense of approximately $529 thousand per month. Some of our subsidiaries operate in shared office space to support sales, marketing activities and produce cost efficiency. Some sales and technical service personnel work from either home offices or at customer sites. Our largest office location is in Herndon, Virginia. The lease contract terminates on December 31, 2022. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are not currently involved in any litigation that we believe could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operation. However, from time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Legal proceedings which may arise in the ordinary course of business include, but are not limited to, preference payment claims asserted in customer bankruptcy proceedings; tax audits; claims of alleged infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights; claims of alleged non-compliance with contract provisions; employment-related claims; claims by competitors, vendors, or customers; claims related to alleged violations of laws and regulations; claims relating to alleged security or privacy breaches, and claims stemming from actions or events relating to COVID-19. We attempt to ameliorate the effect of potential litigation through insurance coverage and contractual protections such as rights to indemnifications and limitations of liability. Additionally, we proactively seek to recover funds to which we may be entitled. From time to time, we are successful in obtaining recoveries by filing a claim in class action suits, however, we have limited insight into the timing or amount of those recoveries. We provide for costs relating to contingencies when a loss is probable, and the amount is reasonably determinable. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility that the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against us is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable 26 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET INFORMATION At March 31, 2020, our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PLUS. On May 21, 2020, there were approximately 133 stockholders of record of our common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. DIVIDEND POLICIES AND RESTRICTIONS We did not pay any cash dividends on our common stock during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, and 2019. Holders of our common stock are entitled to dividends if and when declared by our Board of Directors (Board), out of funds legally available. Generally, we have retained our earnings for use in the business. We currently intend to retain future earnings to fund ongoing operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination concerning the payment of dividends will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board. PURCHASES OF OUR COMMON STOCK The following table provides information regarding our purchases of e Plus inc. common stock during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Period Total number of shares purchased (1) Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs April 1, 2019 through April 30, 2019 - $ - - 385,419 (2) May 1, 2019 through May 27, 2019 2,301 $ 83.38 1,300 0 (3 ) May 28, 2019 through May 31, 2019 68,207 $ 72.32 68,207 431,793 (4) June 1, 2019 through June 30, 2019 117,093 $ 71.15 79,283 352,510 (5) July 1, 2019 through July 31, 2019 3,260 $ 72.87 254 352,256 (6) August 1, 2019 through August 31, 2019 - $ - - 352,256 (7) September 1, 2019 through September 30, 2019 - $ - - 352,256 (8) October 1, 2019 through October 31, 2019 - $ - - 352,256 (9) November 1, 2019 through November 30, 2019 - $ - - 352,256 (10) December 1, 2019 through December 31, 2019 - $ - - 352,256 (11) January 1, 2020 through January 31, 2020 - $ - - 352,256 (12) February 1, 2020 through February 29, 2020 - $ - - 352,256 (13) March 1, 2020 through March 31, 2020 12,932 56.69 12,932 339,324 (14) (1) Any shares acquired were in open-market purchases, except for 38,811 shares, out of which 1,001 were repurchased in May 2019 and 37,810 in June 2019 to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose due to the vesting of shares of restricted stock. (2) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended April 30, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of April 30, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 385,419. (3) As of May 27, 2019, the authorization under the then existing share repurchase plan expired. (4) On May 24, 2019, the board of directors authorized the company to repurchase up to 500,000 shares of our outstanding common stock commencing on May 28, 2019 and continuing to May 27, 2020. As of May 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 431,793. (5) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended June 30, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of June 30, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,510. 27 Table of Contents (6) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended July 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of July 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (7) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended August 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of August 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (8) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended September 30, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of September 30, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (9) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended October 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of October 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (10) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended November 30, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of November 30, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (11) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended December 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of December 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (12) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended January 31, 2020 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of January 31, 2020, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (13) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended February 29, 2020 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of February 29, 2020, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 352,256. (14) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended March 31, 2020, had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of March 31, 2020, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 339,324. The timing and expiration date of the share repurchase authorizations are included in Note 12, Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 28 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of March 31, 2020, and 2019 presented below was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere herein. On March 31, 2017, we completed a two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend. Per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted for this stock split. The selected financial data as of and for the years ended March 31, 2017, and 2016 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included in this report. For the years ended March 31, Statement of Operations Data: 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 1,588,404 $ 1,372,673 $ 1,418,802 $ 1,331,778 $ 1,204,199 Cost of sales 1,197,213 1,042,285 1,095,320 1,032,019 942,142 Gross profit 391,191 330,388 323,482 299,759 262,057 Operating expense 295,912 250,854 239,243 214,027 186,306 Operating income 95,279 79,534 84,239 85,732 75,751 Other (income) expense 680 6,696 (348 ) 380 - Earnings before provision for income taxes 95,959 86,230 83,891 86,112 75,751 Provision for income taxes 26,877 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 Net earnings $ 69,082 $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 Net earnings per common share - basic $ 5.18 $ 4.70 $ 4.00 $ 3.65 $ 3.08 Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 5.15 $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 For the years ended March 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 86,231 $ 79,816 $ 118,198 $ 109,760 $ 94,766 Accounts receivablenet 374,998 341,227 296,688 291,016 276,399 Total financing receivables and operating leasesnet 144,327 122,799 138,447 123,539 132,354 Total assets $ 909,113 $ 786,198 $ 755,471 $ 741,720 $ 616,680 Total non-recourse and recourse notes payable $ 72,758 $ 48,647 $ 52,278 $ 37,424 $ 47,422 Total liabilities $ 422,968 $ 361,945 $ 382,868 $ 395,802 $ 297,802 Total stockholders equity $ 486,145 $ 424,253 $ 372,603 $ 345,918 $ 318,878 Weighted average common shares outstandingbasic 13,327 13,448 13,790 13,867 14,513 Weighted average common shares outstandingdiluted 13,415 13,578 13,967 14,028 14,688 29 Table of Contents Other Financial Data: Our management monitors several financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis to track the progress of our business. We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, operating income margin, net earnings, net earnings per common share, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, adjusted gross billings, and non-GAAP net earnings per share. We use a variety of operating and other information to evaluate the operating performance of our business, develop financial forecasts, make strategic decisions, and prepare and approve annual budgets. These key indicators include financial information that is prepared in accordance with US GAAP and presented in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as non-GAAP performance measurement tools. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance or financial position that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with US GAAP. Non-GAAP measures used by management may differ from similar measures used by other companies, even when similar terms are used to identify such measures. Our key business metrics are as follows (dollars in thousands): For the years ended March 31, Consolidated 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Net sales $ 1,588,404 $ 1,372,673 $ 1,418,802 $ 1,331,778 $ 1,204,199 Gross profit $ 391,191 $ 330,388 $ 323,482 $ 299,759 $ 262,057 Gross margin 24.6 % 24.1 % 22.8 % 22.5 % 21.7 % Operating income margin 6.0 % 5.8 % 5.9 % 6.4 % 6.3 % Net earnings $ 69,082 $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 Net earnings margin 4.3 % 4.6 % 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.7 % Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 5.15 $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 Non-GAAP: Net earnings (1) $ 82,167 $ 69,580 $ 70,413 $ 68,997 $ 61,520 Non-GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted (1) $ 6.13 $ 5.12 $ 5.04 $ 4.92 $ 4.19 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 119,359 $ 100,415 $ 102,774 $ 99,287 $ 87,691 Adjusted EBITDA margin 7.5 % 7.3 % 7.2 % 7.5 % 7.3 % Purchases of property and equipment used internally $ 4,842 $ 6,042 $ 5,353 $ 3,356 $ 2,442 Purchases of equipment under operating leases 2,167 5,587 2,237 6,202 12,026 Total capital expenditures $ 7,009 $ 11,629 $ 7,590 $ 9,558 $ 14,468 Technology Segment Net sales $ 1,530,138 $ 1,329,520 $ 1,372,765 $ 1,294,937 $ 1,169,065 Adjusted gross billings (3) $ 2,227,885 $ 1,918,995 $ 1,899,685 $ 1,780,417 $ 1,562,191 Gross profit $ 340,588 $ 294,662 $ 287,287 $ 269,749 $ 237,283 Gross margin 22.3 % 22.2 % 20.9 % 20.8 % 20.3 % Operating income $ 62,155 $ 56,738 $ 62,389 $ 68,912 $ 63,689 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 85,840 $ 77,202 $ 80,555 $ 82,117 $ 75,223 Financing Segment Net sales $ 58,266 $ 43,153 $ 46,037 $ 36,841 $ 35,134 Gross profit $ 50,603 $ 35,726 $ 36,195 $ 30,010 $ 24,774 Operating Income $ 33,124 $ 22,796 $ 21,850 $ 16,820 $ 12,062 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 33,519 $ 23,213 $ 22,219 $ 17,170 $ 12,468 (1) Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per common share diluted is based on net earnings calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude other income (expense), share-based compensation, and acquisition and integration expenses, and the related tax effects, the tax (benefit) expense due to the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new US tax rates, and an adjustment to our tax expense in the prior year assuming a 21% federal income tax rate for US operations. 30 Table of Contents We use non-GAAP net earnings per common share as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into our operating performance. We believe that the exclusion of other income and acquisition related amortization expense in calculating non-GAAP net earnings per common share provides management and investors a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business and operating results by excluding items that management believes are not reflective of our underlying operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP net earnings per common share provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results. However, our use of non-GAAP information as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate similar non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per common share or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. For the years ended March 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 GAAP: Earnings before tax $ 95,959 $ 86,230 $ 83,891 $ 86,112 $ 75,751 Share based compensation 7,954 7,244 6,464 6,025 5,711 Acquisition and integration expense 1,676 1,813 2,150 278 681 Acquisition related amortization expense 9,217 7,423 5,978 4,000 2,917 Other (income) expense (680 ) (6,696 ) 348 (380 ) - Non-GAAP: Earnings before provision for income taxes 114,126 96,014 98,831 96,035 85,060 GAAP: Provision for income taxes 26,877 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 Share based compensation 2,218 1,988 1,866 1,709 1,581 Acquisition and integration expense 490 522 621 79 188 Acquisition related amortization expense 2,487 1,916 1,598 938 807 Other (income) expense (200 ) (1,702 ) 101 (108 ) - Remeasurement of deferred taxes - - 1,654 - - Adjustment to U.S. Federal Income Tax rate to 21% - - (7,635 ) (11,650 ) (10,040 ) Tax benefit on restricted stock 87 672 1,444 514 - Non-GAAP: Provision for income taxes 31,959 26,434 28,418 27,038 23,540 Non-GAAP: Net earnings $ 82,167 $ 69,580 $ 70,413 $ 68,997 $ 61,520 For the years ended March 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 5.15 $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 Share based compensation 0.43 0.38 0.33 0.31 0.28 Acquisition and integration expense 0.09 0.09 0.11 0.01 0.03 Acquisition related amortization expense 0.51 0.40 0.32 0.22 0.14 Other (income) expense (0.04 ) (0.35 ) 0.01 (0.02 ) - Remeasurement of deferred taxes - - (0.12 ) - - Adjustment to U.S. Federal Income Tax rate to 21% - - 0.54 0.84 0.69 Tax benefit on restricted stock (0.01 ) (0.05 ) (0.10 ) (0.04 ) - Total non-GAAP adjustments - net of tax $ 0.98 $ 0.47 $ 1.09 $ 1.32 $ 1.14 Non-GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 6.13 $ 5.12 $ 5.04 $ 4.92 $ 4.19 (2) We define Adjusted EBITDA as net earnings calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for the following: interest expense, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation, acquisition and integration expenses, provision for income taxes, and other income. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for interest expense, share-based compensation, acquisition and integration expenses, and depreciation and amortization. We consider the interest on notes payable from our financing segment and depreciation expense presented within cost of sales, which includes depreciation on assets financed as operating leases, to be operating expenses. As such, they are not included in the amounts added back to net earnings in the Adjusted EBITDA calculation. We provide below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net earnings, which is the most directly comparable financial measure to this non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA margin is our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA divided by net sales. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA has been changed from prior period presentations to include adjustments for expenses related to acquisitions such as legal, accounting, tax, and adjustments to the fair value of contingent purchase price consideration as well as stock compensation. 31 Table of Contents We use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into our operating performance. We believe that the exclusion of other income in calculating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin provides management and investors a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business and operating results by excluding items that management believes are not reflective of our underlying operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results. However, our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. For the years ended March 31, Consolidated 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Net earnings $ 69,082 $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 Provision for income taxes 26,877 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 Share based compensation 7,954 7,244 6,464 6,025 5,711 Interest and financing costs 294 - - - - Acquisition and integration expense 1,676 1,813 2,150 278 681 Depreciation and amortization 14,156 11,824 9,921 7,252 5,548 Other (income) expense (680 ) (6,696 ) 348 (380 ) - Adjusted EBITDA $ 119,359 $ 100,415 $ 102,774 $ 99,287 $ 87,691 Technology Segment Operating income $ 62,155 $ 56,738 $ 62,389 $ 68,912 $ 63,689 Depreciation and amortization 14,016 11,812 9,918 7,243 5,532 Share based compensation 7,699 6,839 6,098 5,684 5,321 Interest and financing costs 294 - - - - Acquisition and integration expense 1,676 1,813 2,150 278 681 Adjusted EBITDA $ 85,840 $ 77,202 $ 80,555 $ 82,117 $ 75,223 Financing Segment Operating income $ 33,124 $ 22,796 $ 21,850 $ 16,820 $ 12,062 Depreciation and amortization 140 12 3 9 16 Share based compensation 255 405 366 341 390 Adjusted EBITDA $ 33,519 $ 23,213 $ 22,219 $ 17,170 $ 12,468 (3) We define Adjusted gross billings as our technology segment net sales calculated in accordance with US GAAP, adjusted to exclude the costs incurred related to sales of third-party maintenance, software assurance and subscription/SaaS licenses, and services. We have provided below a reconciliation of adjusted gross billings to technology segment net sales, which is the most directly comparable financial measure to this non-GAAP financial measure. The presentation of adjusted gross billings has been updated to align with net sales for our technology segment. We use adjusted gross billings as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our technology segment, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of adjusted gross billings as an analytical tool has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under US GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate adjusted gross billings or a similarly titled measure differently, which may reduce its usefulness as a comparative measure. For the years ended March 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Technology segment net sales $ 1,530,138 $ 1,329,520 $ 1,372,765 $ 1,294,937 $ 1,169,065 Costs incurred related to sales of third party maintenance, software assurance and subscription/Saas licenses, and services 697,747 $ 589,475 $ 526,920 $ 485,480 $ 393,126 Adjusted gross billings $ 2,227,885 $ 1,918,995 $ 1,899,685 $ 1,780,417 $ 1,562,191 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (financial review) of e Plus is intended to help investors understand our company and our operations. The financial review is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. For a discussion of results for the year ended March 31, 2018, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2019, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 23, 2019. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Business Description e Plus and its consolidated subsidiaries provide leading IT products and services, flexible leasing and financing solutions, and enterprise supply management to enable our customers to optimize their IT infrastructure and supply chain processes. We design, implement and provide IT solutions for our customers. We are focused primarily on specialized IT segments including data center infrastructure, networking, security, cloud and collaboration. Our solutions incorporate hardware and software products from multiple leading IT vendors. As our customers IT requirements have grown increasingly complex, we have evolved our offerings by investing in our professional and managed services capabilities and by expanding our relationships with existing and emerging key vendors. We continue to strengthen our relationships with vendors focused on emerging technologies, which have enabled us to provide our customers with new and evolving IT solutions. We are an authorized reseller of over 1,000 vendors, but primarily of approximately 100 vendors, including Check Point, Cisco Systems, Dell EMC, FireEye, F5 Networks, Gigamon, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Juniper, McAfee, NetApp, Nimble, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pure Storage, Splunk, VMware, among many others. We possess top-level engineering certifications with a broad range of leading IT vendors that enable us to offer IT solutions that are optimized for each of our customers specific requirements. Our proprietary software solutions allow our customers to procure, control and automate their IT solutions environment. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic is having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. Governments and public health authorities have required measures to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, supply chain logistical changes, and closure of non-essential businesses. As COVID-19 impacts continue to expand across the country and globe, e Plus has been adjusting our business activities for the safety of our employees and to best serve our customers in this rapidly evolving environment. e Plus has implemented a flexible work from home strategy applicable to all offices and our operational continuity plans ensure that we have sufficient resources to continue supporting our customers. For example, our managed service teams are distributed across the United States with the ability to leverage technology to provide seamless coverage from any combination of work and/or home offices. While e Plus and many of our customers and vendor partners have restricted travel, we are leveraging video and other collaborative tools to continue to be responsive. Our account relationship teams are actively engaging with our customers, to ensure they have the support needed in adjusting to changes in the business environment and government directives. We are working closely with our partners to address varying impacts on their supply chain to satisfy infrastructure needs. e Plus has a resource page to support specific customer inquiries from security to collaboration to financing options. We continue to execute against and adjust our business continuity plans to maximize our ability to support our employees and customers in concert with our partners. e Plus remains committed to driving positive business outcomes. Financial Summary During the year ended March 31, 2020, net sales increased 15.7% to $1,588.4 million, or an increase of $215.7 million compared to $1,372.7 million in the prior fiscal year. Product sales for the year ended March 31, 2020, increased 14.1% to $1,395.3 million, or an increase of $172.1 million compared to $1,223.2 million in the prior year. Services sales during the year ended March 31, 2020, increased 29.2% to $193.1 million, or an increase of $43.6 million, over prior year services sales of $149.5 million. There was a substantial increase in demand for products from our customers in the telecom, media and entertainment industries, and increases in the technology, SLED, healthcare, and all other category of customers, offset by a decrease in demand from financial services customers. 33 Table of Contents Adjusted gross billings increased by 16.1% to $2,227.9 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $1,919.0 million the prior fiscal year. The increase in adjusted gross billings was due to higher demand from our current customers, as well as from our acquisitions. Net sales increased at a slightly lower percentage than adjusted gross billings year over year due to a shift in mix to third party maintenance, software assurance, subscriptions/SaaS licenses, and services which we recognize revenue on a net basis. Consolidated gross profit increased 18.4%, to $391.2 million, compared to $330.4 million in the prior fiscal year due to higher margins. Consolidated gross margin increased 50 basis points to 24.6% for the year ended March 31, 2020, compared to 24.1% for the year ended March 31, 2019. The increase in gross margin was due to expanded gross profit and margins of our financing segment, a shift in the technology segment revenue mix resulting from our continued focus on value added services for our customers, including the increase in sales of our professional and managed services, and sales of third-party maintenance agreements. Operating income increased $15.7 million, or 19.8%, to $95.3 million and operating margin increased by 20 basis points to 6.0%, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2019. The increase in operating earnings was due to a year over year increase in gross profit partially offset by selling, general, and administrative expense increase of 17.8% or $42.1 million, due, in part to increases variable compensation, salaries, healthcare costs, office rent, and software license and maintenance, as well as full year expenses associated with the SLAIT acquisition in January 2019, and the ABS Technology acquisition in August 2019. As of March 31, 2020, we had 1,579 employees, an increase of 2.7% from 1,537 as of March 31, 2019. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.3 million, due to the acquisitions, and interest and financing costs increased $0.6 million, due to an increase in the average balance of non-recourse and recourse notes payable outstanding during the year. Our effective tax rate for the year ended March 31, 2020, was 28.0%, compared to 26.7% for the same period in the prior year, due to a decrease in the tax benefit from the vesting of restricted stock. The higher tax rate had a negative effect on net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2020, of $1.2 million compared to the prior year tax rate. Net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2020, increased 9.3% to $69.1 million, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2019. Net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2020, and 2019 included other income of $1.0 and $6.3 million from payments received from distributions from various legal claims. Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended March 31, 2020, was $119.4 million, an increase of $18.9 million, or 18.9%, compared to $100.4 million in the prior year. For the year ended March 31, 2020, diluted earnings per share were $5.15, an increase of $0.50, or 10.8%, compared to the prior year of $4.65 per diluted share. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $6.13 for fiscal year 2020, an increase of $1.01, or 19.7%, from the prior year of $5.12 per diluted share. Cash and cash equivalents increased $6.4 million, or 8.0%, to $86.2 million at March 31, 2020, compared to March 31, 2019. The increase is primarily the result of cash flows from operations and a $35 million balance on the accounts receivable component of our credit facility , which was partially offset by an increase in working capital required for the growth in our technology segment, and an increase in our cash conversion cycle, investments in our financing portfolio, and the repurchase of shares of our common stock for $14.4 million under our stock repurchase authorization in the year ended March 31, 2020. Our cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and the possible monetization of our investment portfolio have provided sufficient liquidity for our business. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 is uncertain and may impact our liquidity position over the longer term. As credit markets have tightened as a result of COVID-19, we may have difficulty funding our financing transactions with lenders which may result in the use of our cash or a decrease in financing originations. 34 Table of Contents Segment Overview Our operations are conducted through two segments: technology and financing. Technology Segment The technology segment derives revenue from sales of product, project related advanced professional services, managed services and staff augmentation. The technology segment sells primarily to corporate customers, state and local governments, and higher education institutions on a nationwide basis, with geographic concentrations relating to our physical locations. The technology segment also provides Internet-based business-to-business supply chain management solutions for information technology products. Customers who purchase IT equipment and services from us may have customer master agreements, or CMAs, with our company, which stipulate the terms and conditions of the relationship. Some CMAs contain pricing arrangements, and most contain mutual voluntary termination clauses. Our other customers place orders using purchase orders without a CMA in place or with other documentation customary for the business. Often, our work with state and local governments is based on public bids and our written bid responses. Our service engagements are generally governed by statements of work and are primarily fixed price (with allowance for changes); however, some service agreements are based on time and materials. We endeavor to minimize the cost of sales through incentive programs provided by vendors and distributors. The programs we qualify for are generally set by our reseller authorization level with the vendor. The authorization level we achieve and maintain governs the types of products we can resell as well as such items as pricing received, funds provided for the marketing of these products and other special promotions. These authorization levels are achieved by us through purchase volume, certifications held by sales executives or engineers and/or contractual commitments by us. The authorization levels are costly to maintain, and these programs continually change and, therefore, there is no guarantee of future reductions of costs provided by these vendor consideration programs. Financing Segment Our financing segment offers financing solutions to corporations, governmental entities, and educational institutions nationwide and in Canada, the UK, and several other European countries. The financing segment derives revenue from leasing IT and medical equipment and the disposition of that equipment at the end of the lease. The financing segment also derives revenues from the financing of third-party software licenses, software assurance, maintenance and other services. Financing revenue generally falls into the following three categories: Portfolio income: Interest income from financing receivables and rents due under operating leases; Transactional gains: Net gains or losses on the sale of financial assets; and Post-contract earnings: Month-to-month rents; early termination, prepayment, make-whole, or buyout fees; and net gains on the sale of off-lease (used) equipment. We also recognize revenue from events that occur after the initial sale of a financial asset and remarketing fees from certain residual value investments. Fluctuations in Operating Results Our results of operations are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, customer demand for our products and services, supplier costs, changes in vendor incentive programs, interest rate fluctuations, decision to sell financial assets, general economic conditions, and differences between estimated residual values and actual amounts realized related to the equipment we lease. Operating results could also fluctuate as a result of a sale prior to the expiration of the lease term to the lessee or to a third-party or from other post-term events. We expect to continue to expand by opening new sales locations and hiring additional staff for specific targeted market areas whenever we can find both experienced personnel and desirable geographic areas over the longer term, which may reduce our results from operations. COVID-19 may negatively affect market demand, which will likely lower our financial results, and may adversely impact our ability to expand. We are uncertain as to the extent and duration of the impact to the IT market demand for our products and services. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. 35 Table of Contents REVENUE RECOGNITION When we enter contracts with customers, we are required to identify the performance obligations in the contract. We recognize most of our revenues from the sales of third-party products, third-party software, third-party maintenance, software support, and services, e Plus professional and managed services, and hosting e Plus proprietary software. Our recognition of revenue differs for each of these different types of performance obligations and identifying each performance obligation appropriately may require judgement. When a contract contains multiple distinct performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. We determine standalone selling prices using expected cost-plus margin. When we finance sales of third-party software and third-party maintenance, software support, and services, we reduce the transaction price by the financing component. We recognize revenue from sales of third-party products and third-party software at the point in time that control passes to the customer, which is typically upon delivery of the product to the customer. We perform an analysis to estimate the amount of sales in-transit at the end of the period and adjust revenue and the related costs to reflect only what has been delivered to the customer. This analysis is based upon an analysis of current quarter and historical delivery dates. We recognize revenue from sales of third-party maintenance, software support, and services when our customer and vendor accept the terms and conditions of the arrangement. On occasion, judgement is required to determine this point in time. We provide e Plus professional services under both time and materials and fixed price contracts. When services are provided on a time and materials basis, we recognize sales at agreed-upon billing rates as services are performed. When services are provided on a fixed fee basis, we recognize sales over time in proportion to our progress toward complete satisfaction of the performance obligation. Using this method requires a determination of the appropriate input or output method to measure progress. We most often measure progress based on costs incurred in proportion to total estimated costs, commonly referred to as the cost-to-cost method. When using this method, significant judgement may be required to estimate the total costs to complete the performance obligation. We typically recognize sales of e Plus managed services on a straight-line basis over the period services are provided. We recognize financing revenues from our investments in leases and notes receivable. We recognize interest income on our notes-receivable using the effective interest method. We classify our leases as either sales-type leases or operating leases. For sales-type leases, upon lease commencement, we recognize the present value of the lease payments and the residual asset discounted using the rate implicit in the lease. When we are financing equipment provided by another dealer, we typically do not have any selling profit or loss arising from the lease. When we are the dealer of the equipment being leased, we typically recognize revenue in the amount of the lease receivable and cost of sales in the amount of the carrying value of the underlying asset minus the unguaranteed residual asset. We may need to use judgement to determine the fair value of the equipment. After the commencement date, we recognize interest income as part of net sales using the effective interest method. For operating leases, we recognize the underlying asset as an operating lease asset. We depreciate the asset on a straight-line basis to its estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. We recognize the lease payments over the lease term on a straight-line basis as part of net sales. We account for the transfer of financial assets as sales or secured borrowings. When a transfer meets all the requirements for sale accounting, we derecognize the financial asset and record a net gain or loss that is included in net sales. We utilize qualified attorneys to provide a true-sale-at-law opinion to support the conclusion that transferred financial assets have been legally isolated. RESIDUAL ASSETS Our estimate for the residual asset in a lease is the amount we expect to derive from the underlying asset following the end of the lease term. Our estimates vary, both in amount and as a percentage of the original equipment cost, and depend upon several factors, including the equipment type, vendors discount, market conditions, lease term, equipment supply and demand, and new product announcements by vendors. We evaluate residual values for impairment on a quarterly basis. We do not recognize upward adjustments due to changes in estimates of residual values. GOODWILL We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of October 1, and between annual tests if an event occurs, or circumstances change, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as a reporting unit. 36 Table of Contents In a qualitative assessment, we assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an event representing an indicator of impairment has occurred between annual test dates. Such indicators may include: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and reductions in revenue or profitability growth rates. In the quantitative impairment test, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of the income approach and market approaches. The income approach incorporates the use of a discounted cash flow method in which the estimated future cash flows and terminal values for each reporting unit are discounted to a present value using a discount rate. Cash flow projections are based on managements estimates of economic and market conditions which drive key assumptions of revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The discount rate in turn is based on the specific risk characteristics of each reporting unit, the weighted average cost of capital and its underlying forecast. The market approach estimates fair value by applying performance metric multiples to the reporting units prior and expected operating performance. The multiples are derived from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. The fair values determined by the market approach and income approach, as described above, are weighted to determine the fair value for each reporting unit. Although we have consistently used the same methods in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations, such estimates are uncertain and may vary from actual results. VENDOR CONSIDERATION We receive payments and credits from vendors and distributors, including consideration pursuant to volume incentive programs, and shared marketing expense programs. Many of these programs extend over one or more quarters sales activities. Different programs have different vendor/program specific goals to achieve. We recognize the rebates pursuant to volume incentive programs, when the rebate is probable and reasonably estimable, based on a systematic and rational allocation of the cash consideration offered to each of the underlying transactions that results in our progress towards earning the rebate. Should our actual performance be different from our estimates, we may be required to adjust our receivables. RESERVES FOR CREDIT LOSSES We maintain our reserves for credit losses related to our accounts receivable and financing receivables at levels believed to be adequate to absorb potential losses inherent in their respective balances. We assign an internal rating for the credit quality of all new customers and update these ratings regularly, but no less than annually. Our determination of the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses for our accounts receivable is based on the age of the receivable balance, our internal rating of the customers credit quality, our historical credit losses, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. Our determination of the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses for financing receivables is based on our internal rating of the customers credit quality, our historical credit losses, current economic conditions, the fair value of the underlying collateral, and the volume, growth, the composition of the lease portfolio, and other relevant facts. We adjust our reserve for credit losses to reflect transfers of financial assets that are recognized as non-recourse debt. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our reserve for credit losses in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. INCOME TAXES We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement reporting purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which principally arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement reporting purposes. We also must analyze income tax reserves, as well as determine the likelihood of recoverability of deferred tax assets and adjust any valuation allowances accordingly. Considerations with respect to the recoverability of deferred tax assets include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the tax asset relates. Valuation allowances are evaluated periodically and will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. The calculation of our tax liabilities also involves considering uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be required. 37 Table of Contents BUSINESS COMBINATIONS We account for business combinations using the acquisition method. For each acquisition, we recognize the majority of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair values at the acquisition date. Our valuations of certain assets acquired, including customer relationships and trade names, and certain liabilities assumed, such as performance obligations, involve significant judgement and estimation. Additionally, our determination of the purchase price may include an estimate for the fair value of contingent consideration. We utilize independent valuation specialists to assist us in determining the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. Our valuations utilize significant estimates, such as forecasted revenues and profits. Changes in our estimates could significantly impact the value of certain assets and liabilities. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS The information set forth in Note 2, Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Year Ended March 31, 2020 Compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2019 Technology Segment The results of operations for our technology segment for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Net sales Product $ 1,337,022 $ 1,180,042 $ 156,980 13.3 % Services 193,116 149,478 43,638 29.2 % Total 1,530,138 1,329,520 200,618 15.1 % Cost of sales Product 1,069,110 945,037 124,073 13.1 % Services 120,440 89,821 30,619 34.1 % Total 1,189,550 1,034,858 154,692 14.9 % Gross profit 340,588 294,662 45,926 15.6 % Selling, general, and administrative 264,123 226,112 38,011 16.8 % Depreciation and amortization 14,016 11,812 2,204 18.7 % Interest and financing costs 294 - 294 - Operating expenses 278,433 237,924 40,509 17.0 % Operating income $ 62,155 $ 56,738 $ 5,417 9.5 % Adjusted gross billings $ 2,227,885 $ 1,918,995 $ 308,890 16.1 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 85,840 $ 77,202 $ 8,638 11.2 % Net sales: Net sales for the year ended March 31, 2020, increased by $200.6 million, or 15.1%, to $1,530.1 million due to increases from customers in telecom, media and entertainment industry which was partially offset by a decrease in demand from SLED, financial services, and all the other category of customers. Product sales increased 13.3%, or $157.0 million, to $1,337.0 million and services revenues increased 29.2%, or $43.6 million, to $193.1 million due to an increase in staffing and professional and managed services primarily from the SLAIT acquisition. Adjusted gross billings increased to $2,227.9 million, or 16.1%, from $1,919.0 million in the prior year. The increase in adjusted gross billings was due, in part, to acquisitions as well as higher demand from our current customers. This increase was a higher percentage than that for the net sales increase due a shift in mix to more third-party maintenance, software assurance, subscriptions/SaaS licenses, and services where we recognize revenue on a net basis. 38 Table of Contents We analyze sales by customer end market and by manufacturer. The percentage of net sales by industry and vendor are summarized below: Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Revenue by customer end market: Technology 21 % 22 % (1 %) SLED 16 % 17 % (1 %) Financial Services 13 % 15 % (2 %) Healthcare 15 % 15 % 0 % Telecom, Media & Entertainment 19 % 13 % 6 % All others 16 % 18 % (2 %) Total 100 % 100 % Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Revenue by vendor: Cisco Systems 40 % 42 % (2 %) NetApp 4 % 4 % 0 % HP Inc. & HPE 5 % 6 % (1 %) Dell/EMC 6 % 5 % 1 % Juniper Networks 4 % 4 % 0 % Arista Networks 5 % 4 % 1 % All others 36 % 35 % 1 % Total 100 % 100 % Our revenues by customer end market have remained consistent over the prior year, with over 80% of our sales being generated from customers within the five end markets specified above. In fiscal year 2020, we had a percentage increase in revenues from customers in telecommunications, media and entertainment, a consistent percentage for healthcare, and decreases in the percentage of revenues for technology, SLED, financial services, and all other category of customers. These changes were driven by changes in customer buying cycles and specific IT related initiatives, rather than the acquisition or loss of a customer or set of customers. The majority of our revenues by vendor are derived from Cisco Systems, Dell/EMC, Hewlett Packard companies, and NetApp which collectively remain at or above 55% of total revenues for both fiscal year 2020 and 2019. None of the vendors included within the other category exceeded 5% of total revenues. Cost of sales: The 14.9% increase in cost of sales was due to the increase in product sales, and a higher amount of services revenues, partially offset by an improvement in gross margin on product sales. Gross margin increased 10 basis points to 22.3% for the year ended March 31, 2020, from 22.2% in the prior year due to an increase in sales of third-party maintenance, software assurance, subscription/SaaS licenses, and services, for which the revenues are presented on a net basis, as well as increases in revenues from our professional and managed service. Vendor incentives earned as a percentage of sales for the year ended March 31, 2020, and 2019 remained constant. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $264.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, increased by $38.0 million, or 16.8% compared to the prior year. Salaries and benefits increased $32.2 million or 17.2% to $219.0 million, compared to $186.8 million during the prior year. Approximately 39.6% of this increase was due to higher variable compensation due to the increase in gross profit, and the remaining increase was due to the costs for employees acquired in the acquisition of SLAIT in January 2019 included for the entire current fiscal year, the acquisition of ABS technology in August 2019, and organic position additions. Our technology segment had 1,543 employees as of March 31, 2020, an increase of 40, or 2.7%, from 1,503 at March 31, 2019. There was an increase 52 positions related to sales, marketing, and professional services personnel, along with a reduction in administrative positions. Employee benefits, including healthcare, increased $1.9 million, or 8.9% over the prior year. General and administrative expenses, excluding acquisition related expense, increased $5.8 million, or 15.7%, to $42.9 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $37.1 million the prior year. Contributing to the increase in costs were the operational expenses for the full calendar year related to the acquisition of SLAIT and also the partial year operational expenses related to the ABS Technology acquisition, as well as increases in the cost of software licenses and maintenance. 39 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.2 million, or 18.7%, to $14.0 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $11.8 million in the prior year. The increase is related to the SLAIT and ABS Technology acquisitions. Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income increased $5.4 million, or 9.5%, to $62.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $56.7 million in the prior year and Adjusted EBITDA increased 11.2% to $85.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $77.2 million in the prior year. Financing Segment The results of operations for our financing segment for the years ended March 31, 2020, and 2019 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change Net sales $ 58,266 $ 43,153 $ 15,113 35.0 % Cost of sales 7,663 7,427 236 3.2 % Gross profit 50,603 35,726 14,877 41.6 % Selling, general, and administrative 15,059 10,970 4,089 37.3 % Depreciation and amortization 140 12 128 1066.7 % Interest and financing costs 2,280 1,948 332 17.0 % Operating expenses 17,479 12,930 4,549 35.2 % Operating income $ 33,124 $ 22,796 $ 10,328 45.3 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 33,519 $ 23,213 $ 10,306 44.4 % Net sales : Net sales increased by $15.1 million, or 35.0%, to $58.3 million for the year ended March 31, 2020. The increase was due to significantly higher transactional gains and higher portfolio earnings and to a lesser degree by increases other financing revenues and post-contract earnings. Transactional gains increased $12.7 million to $21.8 million compared to the prior year due to a higher volume of sales of financing receivables, particularly with government-related customers, and portfolio earnings increased $1.4 million to $14.7 million, due to increases in sales-type lease earnings and notes receivable earnings over the prior fiscal year. Other financing revenues increased $0.7 million to $2.4 million compared to the prior year, while post-contract earnings increased $0.3 million to $19.4 million. T otal proceeds from sales of financing receivables were $593.7 million and $276.1 million for the years ended March 31, 2020, and 2019, respectively . Our total financing receivables and operating leases increased as of March 31, 2020, to $144.3 million from $122.8 million in the prior year, which was due to an increase in notes receivable of $14.4 million and an increase of $8.4 million in sales-type leases, partially offset by a decrease of $1.3 million operating leases as compared to the prior year, respectively . Direct lease costs: Direct lease costs increased 3.2%, or $0.2 million, to $7.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the prior year, due to an increase in other lease expense in the current year by $0.9 million, and cost of off-lease equipment sales of $0.3 million, mostly offset by a reduction in operating lease depreciation expense of $1.0 million. Gross profit increased 41.6%, or $14.9 million, to $50.6 million primarily due to higher transactional gains and higher portfolio earnings as compared to the prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $15.1 million, an increase of $4.1 million or 37.3%, due primarily to an increase in salaries and benefits and reserves for credit losses. Salaries and benefits increased by $3.4 million, or 37.7%, to $12.4 million primarily due to an increase in variable compensation of $2.5 million and an increase in other salaries and benefits. Our financing segment employed 36 people as of March 31, 2020, compared to 34 employees as of March 31, 2019, an increase of 5.9%. Reserve for credit losses increased $0.5 million over the prior year. 40 Table of Contents Interest and financing costs: Costs increased by $0.3 million, or 17.0%, to $2.3 million during the year ended March 31, 2020, as compared to the prior year. Our total notes payable for the financing segment decreased as of March 31, 2020, to $37.8 million from $48.7 million for the prior year, although our average balance of notes payable outstanding during the year was higher than during the year ended March 31, 2019. Our weighted average interest rate for our non-recourse notes payable was 3.84% as of March 31, 2020, compared to 4.68% for March 31, 2019. Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income increased $10.3 million, or 45.3%, to $33.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $22.8 million in the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA increased $10.3 million, or 44.4%, to $33.5 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $23.2 million in the prior year. Consolidated Other income: Other income and expense during the year ended March 31, 2020, was $0.7 million and included other non-operating income of $1.0 million from payments received from distributions from various legal claims. Income taxes: Our effective income tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2020, and 2019 were 28.0% and 26.7%, respectively. The increase in our effective income tax rate is due to a decrease in the tax benefit from the vesting of restricted stock. Net earnings: Net earnings were $69.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2020, an increase of 9.3% or $5.9 million as compared to $63.2 million in the prior fiscal year. The net earnings increase was due primarily to the increase in operating profits from the financing segment and technology segment, partially offset by reductions in other income and the higher tax rate in the current year compared to the year ended March 31, 2019. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2020, were $5.18 and $5.15, and increased 10.2% and 10.8% over the prior year, respectively. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share were $4.70 and $4.65, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2019. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2020, were 13.3 million and 13.4 million, respectively. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2019, were 13.4 million and 13.6 million, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Overview Our primarily source of funding is cash from operations and borrowings which are accounted for as non-recourse and recourse notes payable. We used those funds to meet our capital requirements, which have historically consisted primarily of working capital for operational needs, capital expenditures, purchases of equipment for lease, payments of principal and interest on indebtedness outstanding, acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. e Plus Technology, inc. and certain subsidiaries, which are part of our technology segment, finance their operations with funds generated from operations, and with a credit facility with WFCDF. This facility provides short-term capital for our technology segment. There are two components of the WFCDF credit facility: (1) a floor plan component, and (2) an accounts receivable component. We believe that cash on hand and funds generated from operations, together with available credit under our credit facility, will be enough to finance our working capital, capital expenditures, and other requirements for at least the next year. Our ability to continue to expand, both organically and through acquisitions, is dependent upon our ability to generate enough cash flow from operations, to borrow, or from other sources of financing, as may be required. While at this time we do not anticipate requiring any additional sources of financing to fund operations, if demand for IT products declines, or if our supply of products is delayed or interrupted, our cash flows from operations may be substantially affected. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 is uncertain and may impact our liquidity position over the longer term. As credit markets have tightened as a result of COVID-19, we may have difficulty funding our financing transactions with lenders which may result in the use of our cash or a decrease in financing originations. 41 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash for the years ended March 31, 2020, and 2019 (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net cash provided by (used) in operating activities $ (74,174 ) $ 39,411 Net cash used in investing activities (20,339 ) (96,205 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 100,634 18,456 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 294 (44 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 6,415 $ (38,382 ) Cash flows from operating activities We used $74.2 million from operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2020, compared to $39.4 million provided by operating activities during the year ended March 31, 2029. The following table provides a breakdown of operating cash flows by segment for the years end March 31, 2020, and 2019 (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Technology segment $ (15,812 ) $ 31,761 Financing segment (58,362 ) 7,650 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (74,174 ) $ 39,411 Technology Segment : During the year ended March 31, 2020, operating cash flows used by our technology segment was $15.8 million as cash generated from earnings were exceeded by changes in working capital. In addition, cash provided by the accounts payable floor plan facility was $11.3 million. Accounts payable floor plan is a facility used to manage working capital needs and we are required to present changes in this balance as financing activity in our consolidated statement of cash flows. During the year ended March 31, 2019, our technology segment provided $31.8 million from operating activities due to cash generated from earnings exceeding changes in working capital. In addition, cash provided by the accounts payable floor plan facility was $4.0 million. To manage our working capital, we monitor our cash conversion cycle for our technology segment, which is defined as days sales outstanding (DSO) in accounts receivable plus days of supply in inventory (DIO) minus days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (DPO). The following table presents the components of the cash conversion cycle for our Technology segment: As of March 31, 2020 2019 (DSO) Days sales outstanding (1) 71 59 (DIO) Days inventory outstanding (2) 11 12 (DPO) Days payable outstanding (3) (45 ) (44 ) Cash conversion cycle 37 27 (1) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of trade accounts receivable-trade, net for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Adjusted gross billings for the same three-month period. (2) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of inventory, net for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Cost of adjusted gross billings for the same three-month period. (3) Represents the rolling three-month average of the combined balance of accounts payable-trade and accounts payable-floor plan for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Cost of adjusted gross billings, product and services for the same three-month period. Our standard payment term for customers is between 30-60 days; however, certain customers or orders may be approved for extended payment terms. Our DSO increased due to an increase in sales during the quarter ended March 31, 2020, to customers with terms greater than or equal to net 60 days. Invoices processed through our credit facility, or the A/P-floor plan balance, are typically paid within 45-60 days from the invoice date, while A/P trade invoices are typically paid within 30 days from the invoice date. 42 Table of Contents Our cash conversion cycle was 37 days for March 31, 2020, compared to 27 days for March 31, 2019 primarily driven by an increase in DSO from 59 days as of March 31, 2019, to 71 days in March 2020. Financing Segment : During the year ended March 31, 2020, our financing segment used $58.4 million from operating activities, primarily due to the issuance of new financing receivables. During the year ended March 31, 2019, our financing segment provided $7.7 million from operating activities, primarily due to changes in working capital. When we adopted ASC 842, we elected the transition option to not restate comparative periods. In the comparative period, changes in financing receivables not sourced through us are reflected in cash flows from investing activities. With the adoption of ASC 842, for periods beginning after April 1, 2019, we recognize the change in financing receivables, including the issuance of financing receivables offset by repayments of financing receivables and the proceeds from the transfer of financing receivables when we account for the transfer as a sale, as part of operating activities. Cash flows related to investing activities During the year ended March 31, 2020, we used $20.3 million from investing activities, consisting of $15.0 million for acquisitions and $7.0 million for purchases of property, equipment and operating lease equipment, and offset by $1.7 million of proceeds from the sale of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment. During the year ended March 31, 2019, we used $96.2 million from investing activities, including $49.8 million for acquisitions and $11.6 million for purchases of property, equipment and operating lease equipment. We elected not to update our cash flows using the transition option available when we adopted ASC 842 in this period. Therefore, cash used in investing activities also included net cash outflows related to financing receivables of $38.4 million, consisting of the issuance of financing receivables of $175.4 million, purchases of assets to be leased or financed of $10.4 million, and was partially offset by cash proceeds from the repayment of financing receivables of $73.9 million, and the sale of financing receivables of $73.4 million. Cash flows from financing activities During the year ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $100.6 million, consisting of net borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable of $74.5 million by our financing segment, net borrowings on the accounts receivable component of our credit facility of $35.0 million, net borrowings on floor plan facility of $11.3 million, and offset by $14.4 million in repurchase of common stock and $5.8 million in payments of contingent consideration for acquisitions. During the year ended March 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $18.5 million, which was primarily due to net borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable of $40.9 million, and net borrowing on floor plan facility of $4.0 million, partially offset by cash used for the repurchase of common stock of $18.8 million, and repayment of financing of acquisitions of $7.6 million. Our borrowing of non-recourse and recourse notes payable primarily arises from our financing segment when we transfer contractual payments due to us under financing agreements to third-party financial institutions. When the transfers do not meet the requirements for a sale, the proceeds paid to us represent borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable. Non-Cash Activities We transfer contractual payments due to us under lease and financing agreements to third-party financial institutions. As a condition of these agreements, certain financial institutions may request that the customer remit their contractual payments to a trust, rather than to us, and the trust pays the financial institution. Alternatively, the customer will make payments to us, and we will remit the payment to the financial institution. The economic impact to us under either structure is similar, in that the assigned contractual payments are paid by the customer and remitted to the lender. However, when our customer makes payments through a trust, such payments represent non-cash transactions. Also, in certain assignment agreements, we may direct the third-party financial institution to pay some of the proceeds from the assignment directly to the vendor or vendors that have supplied the assets being leased and or financed. In these situations, the portion of the proceeds paid directly to our vendors are non-cash transactions. 43 Table of Contents Secured borrowings Financing segment We may finance all or most of the cost of the assets that we finance for customers by transferring all or part of the contractual payments due to us to third-party financing institutions. When we account for the transfer as a secured borrowing, we recognize the proceeds as either recourse or non-recourse notes payable. Our customers are responsible for repaying the debt from a secured borrowing. The lender typically secures a lien on the financed assets at the time the financial assets are transferred and releases it upon collecting all the transferred payments. We are not liable for the repayment of non-recourse loans unless we breach our representations and warranties in the loan agreements. The lender assumes the credit risk and their only recourse, upon default by the customer, is against the customer and the specific equipment under lease. While we expect that the credit quality of our financing arrangements and our residual return history will continue to allow us to obtain such financing, such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. As a result of COVID-19, credit markets have tightened. We may no longer be able to transfer receivables from certain customers with lower credit quality to financial institutions. Credit facility Technology segment Our subsidiary, e Plus Technology, inc., and certain of its subsidiaries, have a credit facility from WFCDF to finance their operations. There are two components of this facility: (1) a floor plan component and (2) an accounts receivable component. As of March 31, 2020, except during a temporary uplift, the facility had an aggregate limit of $ 250 million for the two components and the accounts receivable component had a sub-limit of $50 million, which bears interest assessed at a rate of the One Month LIBOR plus two- and one-half percent. We had an election beginning July 1 in each year to temporarily increase the aggregate limit of the two components to $325 million ending the earlier of 90 days following the election or October 31 of that same year. On March 31, 2020, we executed an additional amendment to the WFCDF credit facility that temporarily increased the aggregate limit of the two components from $250.0 million to $300.0 million through May 5, 2020. Similarly, the amendment temporarily increased the limit on the accounts receivable component of the WFCDF credit facility to $75.0 million through April 14, 2020. The facility between Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance, LLC (WFCDF) and ePlus Technology, inc. provides that ePlus Technology, inc. may make loans or advances in the ordinary course of business up to $30.0 million, if (i) we are not in default under the terms and conditions of the agreement, and (ii) our available borrowing as defined in the credit facility is not less than $20.0 million. However, prior written consent is required to make loans or advances to affiliates outside of normal course of business. In addition, ePlus Technology, inc. may make a dividend to ePlus inc. if, after giving effect to such dividend and as of the date of the dividend; (i) we are not in default under the terms and conditions of the agreement, (ii) our available borrowing as defined in the credit facility is not less than $20.0 million, and (iii) we do not have any outstanding borrowings under the accounts receivable component of the credit facility. Under the amendment signed March 31, 2020, the third condition does not apply as of March 31, 2020. We meet the first two criteria as of March 31, 2020, and, as such, there were no restricted net assets of ePlus Technology, inc as of that date. The facility includes certain covenants including a minimum excess availability of the facility and for e Plus Technology, inc to attain certain minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We were compliant with these covenants as of March 31, 2020. We are not, and do not believe that we are reasonably likely to be, in breach of the WFCDF credit facility. This credit facility is secured by the assets of e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries. Additionally, the WFCDF credit facility requires a guaranty of $10.5 million by e Plus inc. Either party may terminate the credit facility with 90 days advance written notice. The loss of the WFCDF credit facility, including due to circumstances related to COVID-19, could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we currently rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and liquidity for our technology segment. On May 18, 2020, we executed an additional amendment to the WFCDF credit facility that increased the aggregate limit of the two components, except during a temporary uplift, to $275.0 million. Additionally, we have an election to temporarily increase the aggregate limit to $350.0 million for a period of not less than 30 days, provided that all such periods shall not exceed 150 days in the aggregate in any calendar year. Further, the amendment increased the limit on the accounts receivable component of the WFCDF credit facility to $100.0 million, reduced the interest rate to LIBOR plus 2.00%, and removed certain restrictions on ePlus Technology, inc.s ability to pay dividends to ePlus inc. Floor plan component After a customer places a purchase order with us and after we have completed our credit review of the customer, we place an order for the equipment with one of our vendors. Generally, most purchase orders from us to our vendors are first financed under the floor plan component and reflected in accounts payablefloor plan in our consolidated balance sheets. 44 Table of Contents Payments on the floor plan component are due on three specified dates each month, generally 30-60 days from the invoice date. Most customer payments in our technology segment are remitted to our lockboxes. Once payments are cleared, the monies in the lockbox accounts are automatically and daily transferred to our operating account. On the due dates of the floor plan component, we make cash payments to WFCDF. Our borrowings and repayments under the floor plan component are included in net borrowings (repayments) on floor plan facility within cash flows from the financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The respective floor plan component credit limits and actual outstanding balance payables for the dates indicated were as follows (in thousands): Maximum Credit Limit at March 31, 2020 Balance as of March 31, 2020 Maximum Credit Limit at March 31, 2019 Balance as of March 31, 2019 $ 300,000 $ 127,416 $ 250,000 $ 116,083 Accounts receivable component e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries have an accounts receivable component included within the WFCDF credit facility, which has a revolving line of credit. The outstanding balance under the accounts receivable component is recorded as recourse notes payable on our consolidated balance sheets. Our borrowings and repayments under the accounts component are included in borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable and repayments of non-recourse and recourse notes payable, respectively, within cash flows from the financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. As of March 31, 2020, we had $35.0 million outstanding under the accounts receivable component of the WFCDF credit facility and a maximum credit limit of $75.0 million. As of March 31, 2019, we had no amounts outstanding under the accounts receivable component of the WFCDF credit facility and a maximum credit limit of $50.0 million. We may maintain or increase this outstanding balance to assist in mitigating risk as a result of COVID-19. Performance Guarantees In the normal course of business, we may provide certain customers with performance guarantees, which are generally backed by surety bonds. In general, we would only be liable for these guarantees in the event of default in the performance of our obligations. We are in compliance with the performance obligations under all service contracts for which there is a performance guarantee, and we believe that any liability incurred in connection with these guarantees would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2020, and 2019, we were not involved in any unconsolidated special purpose entity transactions. Adequacy of Capital Resources The continued implementation of our business strategy will require a significant investment in both resources and managerial focus. In addition, we may selectively acquire other companies that have attractive customer relationships and skilled sales forces. We may also start offices or warehouses in new geographic areas, which may require a significant investment of cash. We may also acquire technology companies to expand and enhance the platform of bundled solutions to provide additional functionality and value-added services. As a result, we may require additional financing to fund our strategy, implementation and potential future acquisitions, which may include additional debt and equity financing. The impacts of COVID-19 may limit or eliminate our access to capital. While the future is uncertain, we do not believe our credit facility will be terminated by the lender or us. Our lending partners in our financial segment have tightened credit availability and are more discerning in their approval process. However, currently we have funding resources available for our transactions. 45 Table of Contents Inflation For the periods presented herein, inflation has been relatively low, and we believe that inflation has not had a material effect on our results of operations. Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results Our future quarterly operating results and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate. In the event our revenues or earnings for any quarter are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Any such adverse impact could be greater if any such shortfall occurs near the time of any material decrease in any widely followed stock index or in the market price of the stock of one or more public equipment leasing and financing companies, IT resellers, software competitors, major customers or vendors of ours. Our quarterly results of operations are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to the worldwide impacts from COVID-19, currency fluctuations, reduction in IT spending, any reduction of expected residual values related to the equipment under our leases, the timing and mix of specific transactions, the reduction of manufacturer incentive programs, pricing discounts offered by manufacturers at their year ends, and other factors. Quarterly operating results could also fluctuate as a result of our sale of equipment in our lease portfolio at the expiration of a lease term or prior to such expiration, to a lessee or to a third-party and the transfer of financial assets. Sales of equipment and transfers of financial assets may have the effect of increasing revenues and net income during the quarter in which the sale occurs and reducing revenues and net income otherwise expected in subsequent quarters. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors herein. We believe that comparisons of quarterly results of our operations are not necessarily meaningful and that results for one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Contractual Obligations The impact that our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2020, are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total 1 year Years 2 & 3 Years 4 & 5 More than 5 years Non-recourse notes payable (1) (2) $ 35,502 $ 29,630 $ 5,332 $ 540 $ - Interest payments on non-recourse notes payable (2) 767 497 254 16 - Recourse notes payable 37,256 37,256 - - - Operating lease obligations 13,964 4,904 7,092 1,968 - Total $ 87,489 $ 72,287 $ 12,678 $ 2,524 $ - (1) Payments reflect principal amounts related to the recourse and non-recourse notes payable. (2) Our customers are responsible for repaying the debt from a secured borrowing accounted for as non-recourse debt. The lender assumes the credit risk and generally their only recourse, upon default by the customer, is against the customer and the specific equipment under lease.