Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections contained elsewhere in this report, as well as other reports that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Industry and Market Data This Form 10-K includes industry data that we obtained from periodic industry publications, which represent data, research opinion, or viewpoints published as part of syndicated subscription services. The Gartner Report described herein, (the Gartner Report) represent research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. (Gartner), and are not representations of fact. Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date (and not as of the date of this Form10-K), and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Report are subject to change without notice 2 Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Our company was founded in 1990 and is a Delaware corporation. e Plus inc. is sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as we, our, us, ourselves, or e Plus. Our operations are conducted through two business segments. Our technology segment sells IT hardware products, third-party software and maintenance contracts, our own and third-party advanced professional and managed services, and our proprietary software. Our financing segment operations primarily consist of the financing of IT equipment, software and related services. Both segments sell to commercial entities, state and local governments, government contractors, and educational institutions. See Note 16 , Segment Reporting in the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. e Plus inc. does not engage in any business other than serving as the parent holding company for the following operating companies: Technology e Plus Technology, inc.; e Plus Software, LLC; e Plus Technology Services, inc.; e Plus Cloud Services, inc.; SLAIT Consulting, LLC; and IGXGlobal UK, Limited Financing e Plus Group, inc.; e Plus Government, inc.; e Plus Canada Company; e Plus Capital, inc.; e Plus Iceland, inc.; and IGX Capital UK, Ltd. We began using the name e Plus inc. in 1999 after changing our name from MLC Holdings, Inc. e Plus Technology, inc. is the primary entity that conducts our technology sales and services business. 3 Table of Contents OUR BUSINESS We are a leading solutions provider that delivers actionable outcomes for organizations by using IT and consulting solutions to drive business agility and innovation. Leveraging our engineering talent, we assess, plan, deliver, and secure solutions comprised of leading technologies and consumption models aligned with our customers needs. Our expertise and experience enable e Plus to craft optimized solutions that take advantage of the cost, scale and efficiency of private, public and hybrid cloud in an evolving market. We also provide consulting, professional, managed, IT staff augmentation, and complete lifecycle management services including flexible financing and solutions in the areas of security, cloud, networking, data center, collaboration and emerging technologies. We have been in the business of selling, leasing, financing, and managing IT and other assets for more than 29 years. Our primary focus is to deliver integrated solutions that address our customers business needs, leveraging the appropriate technologies, both on-premise and in the cloud. Our approach is to lead with advisory consulting to understand our customers needs, design, deploy and manage solutions aligned to their objectives. Underpinning the broader areas of Cloud, Security, Networking, Data Center and Collaboration are specific skills in orchestration and automation, application modernization, DevOps, data management, data visualization, analytics, network modernization, edge compute and other advanced and emerging technologies. These solutions are comprised of class leading technologies from partners such as Amazon Web Services, Arista Networks, Check Point, Cisco Systems, Citrix, Commvault, Dell EMC, F5 Networks, Gigamon, HPE, Juniper Networks, Lenovo, Microsoft, NetApp, Nutanix, NVIDIA, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pure Storage, Rubrik, Splunk, and VMware, among many others. We possess top-level engineering certifications with a broad range of leading IT vendors that enable us to offer multi-vendor IT solutions that are optimized for each of our customers specific requirements. Our hosted, proprietary software solutions are focused on giving our customers more control over their IT supply chain, by automating and optimizing the procurement and management of their owned, leased, and consumption-based assets. Our scale and financial resources have enabled us to continue investing in engineering and technology resources to stay on the forefront of technology trends. Our expertise in core and emerging technologies, buttressed by our robust portfolio of consulting, professional, and managed services, has enabled e Plus to remain a trusted advisor for our customers. In addition, we offer a wide range of consumption options including leasing and financing for technology and other capital assets. We believe our lifecycle approach offering of integrated solutions, services and financing, and our proprietary supply chain software, is unique in the industry. This broad portfolio enables us to deliver a unique customer experience that spans the continuum from fast delivery of competitively priced products, services, subsequent management and upkeep, through to end-of-life disposal services. This approach permits e Plus to deploy ever-more-sophisticated solutions enabling our customers business outcomes. Our go-to-market strategy focuses primarily on diverse end-markets for middle market to large enterprises. For the year ended March 31, 2019, the percentage of revenue by customer end market within our technology segment includes technology industry 22%, state and local government, and educational institutions 17%, healthcare 15%, financial services 15%, and telecommunications, media and entertainment 13%. For the year ended March 31, 2019, there were no customers where sales exceeded 10% of net sales. Sales to Apple Inc. represented 12% and 13% of our net sales for the years ended March 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Most of our sales were generated within the United States (US); however, we support our customers nationally and internationally including physical locations in the United Kingdom (UK), and India, which were established by acquisitions in December 2015 and May 2017, respectively. Our technology segment accounted for 97% of our net sales, and 71% of our operating income, while our financing segment accounted for 3% of our net sales, and 29% of our operating income for the year ended March 31, 2019. 4 Table of Contents OUR INDUSTRY BACKGROUND AND MARKET OPPORTUNITY We participate in the large and growing US IT market, which, according to Gartner, Inc. is estimated to have generated sales of over $1.16 trillion in 2018 and is expected to grow by 3.2% in calendar year 2019 and at an annual rate of approximately 3.7% for 2018 through 2022 1 . We have identified and focused on several specific trends that we believe will create higher growth in the broader US IT market: Multi-Cloud Strategy. Over the past several years, cloud architectures and cloud-enabled frameworks, whether public, private, or hybrid, have become the core foundation of modern IT. Our strategy is to assist our customers in assessing, defining and deploying private and hybrid clouds that align with their business needs. This strategy leverages our strength in deploying private clouds, while also incorporating elements of the public cloud. By assessing their applications, workloads, business requirements, etc., we deploy solutions that leverage the best of all technology platforms and consumption models. For example, we may build a private cloud solution to host mission critical applications, while utilizing a public cloud solution for development, collaboration, or disaster recovery. As the market matures, we will continue to build and acquire skills that align with agile development (DevOps), application refactoring, and analytics. Our cloud strategy is tightly aligned with all our key strategic initiatives, including security, and digital infrastructure. Increasing sophistication and incidences of IT security breaches and cyber-attacks. Over the last decade, cyber-attacks have become more sophisticated, numerous, and pervasive. Organizations are finding it increasingly difficult to effectively safeguard their information assets from a constant stream of advanced threats. Cyber-threats have shifted from uncoordinated individual efforts to highly coordinated and well-funded attacks by criminal organizations and nation-state actors. For most organizations, it is no longer a matter of if a cyber-attack will occur; the question is when and what impact it will have on the organization. We believe our customers are focused on all aspects of cyber security, including information and physical security, intellectual property, and compliance requirements related to industry and government regulations. To meet current and future security threats, enterprises must implement security controls and technology solutions that leverage integrated products and services to help monitor, mitigate, and remediate security threats and attacks. Sales of security products and services were 19.5%, 18.6% and 16.1%, respectively, of our total adjusted gross billings the years ended March 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017. Disruptive technologies are creating complexity and challenges for customers and vendors. The rapid evolution of disruptive technologies, and the speed by which they impact organizations IT platforms, has made it difficult for customers to effectively design, procure, implement and manage their own IT systems. Moreover, increased budget pressures, fewer internal resources, a fragmented vendor landscape and fast time-to-value expectations make it challenging for customers to design, implement and manage secure, efficient and cost-effective IT environments. Customers are increasingly turning to IT solutions providers such as e Plus to implement complex IT offerings, including software defined infrastructure, cloud computing, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, big data analytics, and flash storage. Customer IT decision-making is shifting from IT departments to line-of- business personnel. As IT consumption shifts from legacy, on-premise infrastructure to agile on-demand and as-a-service solutions, customer procurement decisions are shifting from traditional IT personnel to lines-of-business personnel, which is changing the customer engagement model and types of consultative services required to fulfill customer needs. In addition, many of the services create recurring revenue streams paid over time, rather than upfront revenue. Lack of sufficient internal IT resources at mid-sized and large enterprises, and scarcity of IT personnel in certain high-demand disciplines . We believe that IT departments at mid-sized and large enterprises are facing pressure to deliver emerging technologies and business outcomes but lack the properly trained staff and the ability to hire personnel with high in-demand disciplines such as security and data analytics. At the same time the prevalence of security threats; increased use of cloud computing, software-defined networking, new architectures, and rapid software development frameworks; the proliferation of mobile devices and bring-your-own-device (BYOD) policies; and complexity of multi-vendor solutions, have made it difficult for IT departments to implement high-quality IT solutions. 1 Gartner, Gartner Market Databook, 1Q19 Update, Spending on IT by Technology Segment and Country, 2016-2022, April 10, 2019 (US). 5 Table of Contents Reduction in the number of IT solutions providers . We believe that customers are seeking to reduce the number of solutions providers they do business with to improve supply chain and internal efficiencies, enhance accountability, improve supplier management practices, and reduce costs. As a result, customers are required to select IT solutions providers that can deliver complex multi-vendor IT solutions. Increasing need for third-party services. We believe that customers are relying on third-party service providers, such as e Plus, to manage significant aspects of their IT environment, from design, implementation, pre- and post-sales support, to maintenance, engineering, cloud management, security operations, and other services. COMPETITION The market for IT solutions is highly competitive, subject to macro-economic cycles and the entry of new competitors. Additionally, the consolidation of existing market participants can create significantly larger competitors and is also affected by disruptive technologies and other market activities of industry participants. We expect to continue to compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national, and international firms, including vendors, international, national, and regional resellers and service providers. Some of our competitors are direct marketers with little value add and sell products as commodities, which can place downward pressure on product pricing. In addition, many IT vendors may sell or lease directly to our customers, and our continued ability to compete effectively may be affected by the policies of such vendors. We face indirect competition from potential customers internal development efforts and must overcome potential customers reluctance to move away from legacy systems, processes, and solution providers. As IT consumption shifts from IT personnel and legacy infrastructure to line-of-business based outcomes using off-premise, on-demand, and cloud solutions, the legacy resale model is shifting from an upfront sale to a recurring revenue model. The leasing and financing markets are also competitive and subject to changing economic conditions and market activities of leading industry participants. We expect to continue to compete against local, regional, national, and international firms, including banks, specialty finance companies, private-equity asset managers, vendors captive finance companies, and third-party leasing companies. Banks and other large financial services companies sell directly to business customers, particularly larger enterprise customers, and may provide other financial or ancillary services that we do not provide. Vendor captive leasing companies may use internal transfer pricing to effectively lower lease rates and/or bundle equipment sales and leasing to provide highly competitive packages to customers. Third-party leasing companies may have deep customer relationships with contracts in place that are difficult to displace; however, these competitors typically do not provide the breadth of product, service, and software offerings that we provide to our customers. In all our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition and engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than we do. OUR SOLUTIONS Technology Segment IT Sales: Our offerings consist of hardware, perpetual and subscription software, maintenance, software assurance, and internally-provided and outsourced services. We believe that our customers view technology purchases as integrated solutions, rather than discrete product and service categories, and the majority of our sales are derived from integrated solutions involving our customers data center, network, security, and collaboration infrastructure. We hold various technical and sales-related certifications from leading manufacturers and software publishers, which authorizes us to market their products and enable us to provide advanced professional services. We actively engage with emerging vendors to offer their technologies to our customers. Our flexible platform and customizable catalogs facilitate the addition of new vendors products with minimal incremental effort. Advanced Professional and Managed Services: We provide a range of advanced professional and managed services to help our customers improve productivity, profitability, and revenue growth while reducing operating costs. Our solutions and services include the following: ePlus managed services offer a flexible subscription model to monitor, manage, and maximize business critical technologiesincluding cloud, security, data center, mobility, and collaboration; 6 Table of Contents Professional services focus on cloud infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, storage, hyper-converged infrastructure, and virtual desktop infrastructure, supported by security and managed services solutions; Security solutions help safeguard our customers business and information assets through the appropriate application of governance, technology and supporting services: Governance, Risk, and Compliance (GRC) services help ensure customers are meeting governance and compliance requirements by leveraging regulatory frameworks, industry best practices, and supporting controls - thereby allowing customers to effectively identify, assess, and mitigate risk. Managed Security Services help customers strengthen their information security profile with industry-leading tools, technology and expertise - often at a fraction of the cost of in-house security resources. Services include Security Operations Center (SOC), Managed Detection and Response (MDR), and Incident Response (IR). Staff augmentation services provide customers with flexible headcount options while allowing them to access talent, fill specific technology skill gaps, or provide short-term or long-term IT professional help, which also includes services, such as Virtual Chief Information Officer (vCIO) and Virtual Chief Information Security Officer (vCISO), used to help complement existing personnel and build three-to-five-year IT roadmaps; Server and desktop support provide outsourcing services to respond to our customers business demands while minimizing overhead; and Project management services enhance productivity and collaboration management and enable successful implementations and adoption of solutions for our customers. Financing Segment Leasing and Financing: We specialize in financing arrangements, including direct financing, sales-type, and operating leases; loans, and consumption-based financing arrangements; and underwriting and management of IT equipment and assets. Our financing operations include sales, pricing, credit, contracts, accounting, risk management, and asset management. We primarily finance IT equipment, communication-related equipment, and medical equipment. We may also finance industrial machinery and equipment, office furniture and general office equipment, transportation equipment, and other general business equipment. We offer our solutions both directly and through vendors. We offer enhanced financing solutions, and our business process services approach automates a significant portion of the IT procurement process and reduces our customers cost of doing business. The solution incorporates value-added services at every step in the process, including: Front-end processing, such as e Procurement, order aggregation, order automation, vendor performance measurement, ordering, reconciliation, and payment; Lifecycle and asset ownership services, including asset management, change management, and property tax filing; and End-of-life services such as equipment audit, removal, and disposal. 7 Table of Contents OUR COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS Large Addressable Market with Substantial Growth Opportunities Driven by Increasing IT Complexity We participate in the large and growing IT market with specific focus on the data center, network, cloud, security, virtualization, and mobility segments of the industry, facilitated by our professional and managed service solutions. We believe we are well-positioned in the complex high-growth IT solutions segment and can achieve outsized growth relative to the overall IT market. Our products and services target large enterprise companies, the roughly 35,000 2 middle market companies with revenues between $50 million and $1 billion, the over 89,000 3 state and local governmental organizations, larger school districts, and the over 4,000 4 higher educational institutions in the US, and those same markets in the UK. We believe IT organizations within these companies and organizations are facing pressure to deliver higher service levels with fewer resources, increasing their reliance on third-parties who can provide complex, multi-vendor technology solutions, such as our company. Broad and Diverse Customer Base across a Wide Range of End Markets We have a broad and diverse customer base of over 3,400 customers across a wide range of end-markets, including education, financial services, healthcare, media and entertainment, state and local government, technology, and telecommunications. Differentiated Business Model Serving Entire IT Lifecycle Procurement, Solutions, Services, Software, Financing We believe we are a trusted IT advisor, delivering differentiated products and services to enable our customers to meet increasingly complex IT requirements. We are able to provide complete, turn-key solutions aligned to the entire IT lifecycle procurement, products, services, software, and financing. We provide upfront assessments, design and configuration capabilities, installation and implementation, and ongoing services to support our customers solutions. Deep Expertise in Advanced Technology to Address Cloud, Security, Digital Infrastructure and other Emerging IT Trends We believe our customers choose us for their complex IT infrastructure needs based on our track record of delivering best-of-breed solutions, value-added services, and close relationships with both established and emerging vendors. We focus on obtaining and maintaining top-level engineering certifications and professional services expertise in advanced technologies of strategic vendors and possess over 1,700 certifications that are leveraged to help our customers achieve positive business outcomes Strategic Ability to Design and Integrate Cloud Solutions Across Multiple Vendors We believe our expertise across both Data Center and Cloud architectures allows us to provide differentiated offerings in assisting our customers with their journey to the cloud. Combined with our established practices in Networking and Security, we are uniquely poised to help customers adopt a multi-cloud strategy utilizing our cloud cost management framework to help overcome the inherent challenges. We leverage our strategic partnerships with leading vendors such as Amazon Web Services, Cisco Systems, Dell EMC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Microsoft Azure, NetApp, and VMware in conjunction with our professional, managed and lifecycle services to help our customers achieve their desired business outcomes. 2 World Economic Forum, Fueling the US Economys Middle Market Growth Engine, Andrew S. Weinberg, April 12, 2018 3 United States Census Bureau, Newsroom Archive, August 30, 2012 4 Statista.com Number of Higher Education Institutions in the US form 1980 to 2016 8 Table of Contents Proven Track Record of Successfully Integrating Acquisitions and Accelerating Growth We view acquisitions as an important factor in our strategic growth plan. Since 1997, we have successfully integrated 27 acquisitions. Most recently, we have been active in tuck-in acquisitions to broaden our product offerings, sector reach, and geographic footprint, with recent acquisitions including: SLAIT Consulting, LLC (SLAIT) acquired in January 2019 is an IT consulting and solutions provider with a focus on security advisory and managed services, managed help desk, specialized IT, staffing augmentation, and data center solutions. The acquisition solidifies e Plus footprint in the Mid-Atlantic and extends e Plus security consulting and managed services capabilities. SLAIT brings e Plus additional consultative services in the area of GRC (governance, risk management, and compliance), customized help desk and managed services solutions, as well as a number of relationships with fast-growing emerging vendors and related sales and engineering capabilities. Integrated Data Storage, LLC (IDS) acquired in September 2017, is an advanced data center solution provider focused on cloud enablement and managed services, including its proprietary IDS Cloud. The acquisition expands e Plus footprint in the Midwest and enhances its sales and engineering capabilities in cloud services, disaster recovery and backup as a service, storage, data center, and professional services. OneCloud Consulting, Inc. (OneCloud) acquired in May 2017, is a deployment, cloud consulting, and training company. The acquisition, based in Milpitas, California, with operations in the US and India, provides us with additional ability to address customers needs in cloud-based solutions and infrastructure, including DevOps, OpenStack, and other emerging technologies, to our broad customer base. The company empowers organizations to design, deploy, and scale cutting-edge technologies to support the next phase of their business. Specialized training courses are tailored to drive end-user technology adoption and workshop offerings range from Automation to Cloud, Infrastructure, DevOps, and OpenStack as well as emerging technologies in the Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning space. Consolidated Communications IT services and integration business (Consolidated IT Services), acquired in December 2016, provides data center, unified communications, networking, and security solutions, as well as expanded our sales presence in the upper Midwest. IGX Acquisition Global, LLC, and IGX Support, LLC, including IGX Acquisitions wholly-owned subsidiary, IGXGlobal UK Limited (collectively, IGX) acquired in December 2015. Expanded our sales presence in New York and New England, as well as an operating branch in London that serves the UK and global customers. We generally integrate acquired firms into the e Plus platform immediately, which allows us to maintain customers and vendor relationships, retain key employees from acquired firms, and accelerate growth. We continue to review new acquisition opportunities to expand our global footprint and expand our offerings. Financial Performance Characterized by Growth and Profitability We have focused on achieving top-line revenue growth while maintaining industry-leading gross margins with a compound annual growth rate of 4.6% on net sales and 7.8% for consolidated gross profit, respectively, from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019. Through our organic expansion and acquisitions, we have increased our employee base by 72.7% from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2019. The increase in our employee base has largely been in customer facing roles, which increased by 92.4% over the same period, as we continue to build our sales and services team while leveraging our operational infrastructure. 9 Table of Contents GROWTH STRATEGY Our goal is to continue to grow as a leading provider of technology solutions. The key elements of our strategy include the following: Be Our Customers Partner of Choice for Comprehensive IT and Lifecycle Solutions, Including Consulting, Managed and Professional Services, and Financing We seek to become the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers, whether on-premise, cloud, or managed services-based. We strive to provide excellent customer service, pricing, availability, and advanced professional and managed services in an efficient manner. We believe the increasing complexity of the IT ecosystem and the emergence of new technologies and vendors are factors that will lead to a growing demand from existing customers. We have a large number of experienced pre-sales engineers engage with customers about the most advanced technologies. Our account executives are trained on our broad solutions capabilities with access to many, category focused subject matter experts, which allow them to sell in a consultative business outcome-based manner that increases the likelihood of cross-selling our solutions; our account executives are supported by experienced and professional inside sales representatives. We believe that our bundled offerings are an important differentiating factor from our competitors. We focus on gaining top-level engineering certifications and professional services expertise in advanced technologies of strategic vendors. This expertise helps our customers develop their cloud capabilities including private, public, and hybrid infrastructures. We are providing virtual desktop infrastructure, unified communications, collaboration, networking, security, storage, big-data, mobility, converged and hyper-converged infrastructures, and managed services offerings, all of which remain in high demand. We believe our ability to deliver advanced professional services provides benefits in two ways. First, we gain recognition and mindshare of our strategic vendor partners and become the go-to partner in selected regional markets as well as the national market. This significantly increases direct and referral sales opportunities for our products and services and allows us to offer competitive pricing levels. Second, within our existing and potential customer base, our advanced professional services are a key differentiator against competitors who cannot provide services or advanced services for these key technologies or across multiple vendor product lines. During the last fiscal year, we enhanced our Managed Services across several fronts. We upgraded our service management and configuration management database systems to increase the level of automation, transparency, and integration with customers and launched a completely new interface for our Executive Dashboard to provide enhanced instrumentation, user experience, and lifecycle data related to managed assets. We expanded our portfolio to include monitoring for Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure components as well as monitoring, management, and Enhanced Maintenance Support (EMS) for Check Point firewalls. We also bolstered our NetApp EMS/SSC support through the acquisition of SLAIT, as well as fully integrated our Cloud Managed Backup, Cloud Disaster Recovery, and Cloud Hosted Infrastructure offerings as a result of our IDS acquisition. Build Our Geographic Footprint We intend to increase our direct sales and go-to-market capabilities in each of our geographic areas. We actively seek to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales, electronic commerce, leveraging our partnerships with vendors, and targeted demand-generation activities to increase awareness of our solutions. We also seek to broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, and improve our technology and professional services delivery capabilities. During the last fiscal year, we expanded our sales and delivery capabilities across multiple international markets as we see more demand for solutions within this market. Recruit, Retain, and Develop Employees Based on our prior experience, capital structure, and business systems and processes, we believe we are well positioned to take advantage of hiring experienced sales people and engineers, make strategic acquisitions that expand our customer facing talent, broaden our customer base, expand our geographic reach, scale our existing operating structure, and/or enhance our product and service offerings. Part of our growth strategy is to hire purposefully and enhance our technical and skill base through strategic acquisitions. During the year ended March 31, 2019, as part of our expansion strategy, our customer facing sales and professional services team grew from 965 to 1,217. 10 Table of Contents Improve Operational Efficiencies We continue to invest in our internal technology infrastructure and software platforms to optimize our operations and engage in process re-engineering efforts to become more streamlined and cost effective. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT We incur software development costs associated with maintaining, enhancing, or upgrading our proprietary software, which may be performed by internal IT development resources or by an offshore software-development company that we use to supplement our internal development team or various US based consultants. SALES AND MARKETING We focus our sales and marketing efforts on becoming the primary provider of IT solutions for each of our customers. We seek to acquire new account relationships through face-to-face field sales, leveraging our partnerships with manufacturers and targeted direct marketing to increase awareness of our solutions. We target commercial enterprises, primarily middle market companies with annual revenues between $20 million and $2.5 billion and large companies, as well as larger state and local governments and educational institutions. We currently have over 3,400 customers. We undertake direct marketing and leverage digital marketing and social media campaigns to target certain markets in conjunction with our primary vendor partners, who may provide financial reimbursement, outsourced services, and personnel to assist us in these efforts. Our sales representatives are compensated by a combination of salary and commission, with commission becoming the primary component of compensation as the sales representatives gain experience. To date, we acquired a majority of our customers through the efforts of our direct sales force and acquisitions. We market to different areas within a customers organization, including business units as well as the IT department, or finance department, depending on the solutions. As of March 31, 2019, our sales force consisted of 547 sales, marketing and sales support personnel organized regionally in 41 offices and customer locations throughout the US, UK, India, and Singapore. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS Our success depends in part upon proprietary business methodologies and technologies that we have licensed and modified. We own certain software programs or have entered into software licensing agreements to provide services to our customers. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret protection, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our intellectual property rights. We seek to protect our software, documentation and other written materials under trade secret and copyright laws, which afford only limited protection. For example, we have a number of patents in the US and certain patent rights in other jurisdictions, including some European forums, Japan, and Canada. We cannot provide assurance that any patents, as issued, will prevent the development of competitive products or that our patents will not be successfully challenged by others or invalidated through the administrative process or litigation. Our trademarks include e +, e Plus, Procure+, Manage+, Docpak, Viewmark, OneSource, and Where Technology Means More in the US, and IGXGlobal in Great Britain and the European Union (EU). We intend to use and protect these and our other marks, as we deem necessary. We believe our trademarks have significant value and are an important factor in the marketing of our products. In addition to our trademarks, we have service marks and over 20 registered copyrights and additional common-law trademarks and copyrights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and can be expensive, and while we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy could be expected to be a persistent problem. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate, and our competitors may independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products or design around our proprietary intellectual property. 11 Table of Contents FINANCIAL AND RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES Inventory Management : We have drop-shipment arrangements with many of our vendors and distributors, which permit us to offer products to our customers without having to take physical delivery of the equipment. Arrow Enterprises, Ingram Micro, Tech Data, and Synnex Corporation are our largest distributors. Using the distribution systems available, we frequently sell products that are shipped from the vendors or distributors directly to our customers location, which allows us to keep our inventory of any product and shipping expenses to a minimum. For the year ended March 31, 2019, our four largest distributors accounted for over 30% of our purchases related to our technology segment net sales. Risk Management and Process Controls : We use and maintain conservative underwriting policies and disciplined credit approval processes in both our technology and financing segments. We have an executive management review process and other internal controls in place to evaluate transactions potential risk. In our technology segment, we manage our risk by using conservative credit quality analysis and periodic monitoring of customer financial results or third-party risk evaluation tools; monitoring customer accounts receivable balances and payment history; proactively pursuing delinquent accounts; ensuring we have appropriate contractual terms and conditions; perfecting security interests when practicable; requiring prepayment or deposits if indicated; performing fraud checks for new accounts; and evaluating general economic as well as industry specific trends. Our systems automatically decrease trade credit lines based on assigned risk ratings. In our financing segment, we manage our risk in assets we finance by assigning the contractual payments due under the financing arrangement to third-parties. We also use agency purchase orders to procure equipment for lease to our customers and otherwise take measures to minimize our inventory of financed assets. When our technology segment is the supplier of the assets being financed, we retain certain procurement risks. Our financing arrangements with our customers are generally fixed-rate. Credit Risk Loss Experience : During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $335 thousand, and incurred actual credit losses of $385 thousand. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $462 thousand, and incurred actual credit losses of $3,190 thousand. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017, we increased our reserves for credit losses by $277 thousand, and incurred actual credit losses of $78 thousand. BACKLOG We rely on our vendors or distributors to fulfill a large majority of our shipments to our customers. As of March 31, 2019, we recorded customer commitments to purchase products or services that remain open until either executed or canceled (open orders) of $161.4 million and deferred revenue of $61.0 million. As of March 31, 2018, we had open orders of $148.2 million and deferred revenues of $48.6 million. We expect that most of open orders as of March 31, 2019, will be recognized within ninety days of that date. We also expect that 77% of the deferred revenues as of March 31, 2019, will be recognized within the next twelve months. 12 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of March 31, 2019, we employed 1,537 employees who operated through 41 offices, home offices, and customer sites. No employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe that we have good relations with our employees. The functional areas of our employees are as follows: March 31, 2019 2018 Change Sales and Marketing 547 499 48 Professional Services 670 466 204 Administration 230 207 23 Software Development and Internal IT 83 80 3 Management 7 8 (1 ) 1,537 1,260 277 US SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION REPORTS Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, filed with or furnished to the US SEC, are available free of charge through our Internet website, www.eplus.com , as soon as reasonably practical after we have electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the SEC. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . The contents on or accessible through these websites are not incorporated into this filing. Further, our references to the URLs for these websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 13 Table of Contents EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who was an executive officer of e Plus on March 31, 2019. There are no family relationships between any directors or executive officers of e Plus. Name Age Position Mark P. Marron 57 Chief Executive Officer, President, and Director Elaine D. Marion 51 Chief Financial Officer Darren Raiguel 48 Chief Operating Officer and ePlus Technology, inc. President The business experience of each executive officer of e Plus is described below: Mark Marron Chief Executive Officer, President and Director Mark P. Marron became the Chief Executive Officer and President of e Plus inc. on August 1, 2016. He began his career at e Plus in 2005 as Senior Vice President of Sales and became Chief Operating Officer in 2010. A 30-year industry veteran, he was formerly with NetIQ where he held the position of Senior Vice President of Worldwide Sales and Services. Prior to joining NetIQ, Mr. Marron served as General Manager of Worldwide Channel Sales for Computer Associates International Inc., a provider of software and services that enables organizations to manage their IT environments. Mr. Marron has extensive experience throughout North America, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Computer Science from Montclair State University. Elaine Marion Chief Financial Officer Elaine D. Marion joined us in 1998. Ms. Marion became our Chief Financial Officer on September 1, 2008. From 2004 to 2008, Ms. Marion served as our Vice President of Accounting. Prior to that, she was the Controller of e Plus Technology, inc., a subsidiary of e Plus, from 1998 to 2004. Ms. Marion currently serves on the Advisory Board of the School of Business at the University of Mary Washington and as a member of the George Mason University School of Business Deans Advisory Council. Ms. Marion is a graduate of George Mason University, where she earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Accounting. Darren Raiguel Chief Operating Officer and ePlus Technology inc. President Darren S, Raiguel joined the company in 1997 as an account executive and has held numerous management positions in the organization for well over a decade. Mr. Raiguel became our Executive Vice President of Technology Sales, and in May 2018 was promoted to Chief Operating Officer of e Plus inc. and President of e Plus Technology, inc. Mr. Raiguel received a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from Temple University, with dual majors in Marketing and Finance. He has participated in numerous industry organizations, councils, and advisory boards throughout his career. 14 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS General economic weakness may harm our operating results and financial condition. Our results of operations are largely dependent upon the state of the economy. Global economic weakness and uncertainty may result in decreased sales, gross margin, earnings and/or growth rates from our US based customers and from customers outside the US For example, there continues to be substantial uncertainty regarding the economic impact of the Referendum on the UKs Membership of the EU (referred to as Brexit). Potential adverse consequences of Brexit, such as global market uncertainty, volatility in currency exchange rates, greater restrictions on imports and exports between the UK and EU countries, increased tariffs and increased regulatory complexities could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, material changes in trade agreements between the US and other countries may, for example, negatively affect our ability to purchase product, and import or export product, increases product pricing and negatively impact availability of product. Adverse economic conditions may decrease our customers demand for our products and services or impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result, our sales could decrease, and reserves for our credit losses and write-offs of receivables may increase. If we lost one or more of our large volume customers, our earnings may be affected. The contracts for the provision of products and services from us to our customers are generally non-exclusive agreements without volume purchase commitments and are terminable by either party upon 30 days notice. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, the failure of such customers to pay amounts due to us, or a material reduction in the amount of purchases made by such customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in the IT industry, customers usage or procurement of IT, and/or rapid changes in product standards may result in reduced demand for the IT hardware and software solutions and services we sell. Our results of operations are influenced by a variety of factors, including the condition of the IT industry, shifts in demand for, or availability of, IT hardware, software, peripherals and services, and industry introductions of new products, upgrades, methods of distribution, and the nature of how IT is consumed and procured. The IT industry is characterized by rapid technological change and the frequent introduction of new products, product enhancements and new distribution methods or channels, each of which can decrease demand for current products or render them obsolete. In addition, the proliferation of cloud technology, IaaS, SaaS, platform as a service (PaaS), software defined networking, or other emerging technologies may reduce the demand for products and services we sell to our customers. Cloud offerings may influence our customers to move workloads to cloud providers, which may reduce the procurement of products and services from us. Changes in the IT industry may also affect the demand for our advanced professional and managed services. We have invested a significant amount of capital in our strategy to provide certain products and services, and this strategy may adversely impact our financial position due to competition or changes in the industry or improper focus or selection of the products and services we decide to offer. If we fail to react in a timely manner to such changes, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our sales can be dependent on demand for specific product categories, and any change in demand for or supply of such products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on continued innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the competitiveness of their offerings and our ability to partner with new and emerging technology providers. The technology industry is characterized by rapid innovation and the frequent introduction of new and enhanced hardware, software and services offerings, such as cloud-based solutions, including IaaS, SaaS and PaaS. We depend on innovations in hardware, software and services offerings by our vendors, as well as the acceptance of those innovations by our customers for the offerings we sell. A decrease in the rate of innovation by our vendors, or the lack of acceptance of innovations by our customers, or a shift by customers to technology platforms that we do not sell could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or cash flows. 15 Table of Contents In addition, if we are unable to keep up with changes in technology and new hardware, software and services offeringsfor example by not providing the appropriate training to our account managers, sales technology specialists and engineers to enable them to effectively sell and deliver such new offerings to customersour business, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. We also depend upon our vendors for the development and marketing of hardware, software and services to compete effectively with hardware, software and services of vendors whose products and services we do not currently offer or are not authorized to offer in one or more customer channels. In addition, our success depends on our ability to develop relationships with and sell hardware, software and services and emerging vendors, as well as vendors that we have not historically represented in the marketplace. To the extent that a vendors offering that is highly in demand is not available to us for resale in one or more customer channels, and there is not a competitive offering from another vendor that we are authorized to sell in such customer channels, or we are unable to develop relationships with new technology providers or companies that we have not historically represented, or we partner with a vendor that is not in demand or demand significantly decreases, our business, results of operations, or cash flows could be adversely impacted. We may fail to innovate or create new solutions which align with changing market and customer demand. As a provider of a comprehensive set of solutions, which involves the offering of bundled solutions consisting of direct IT sales, advanced professional and managed services, our propriety software, and financing, we expect to encounter some of the challenges, risks, difficulties, and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies providing bundled solutions in rapidly evolving markets. Some of these challenges include our ability to increase the total number of users of our services, adapt to meet changes in our markets and competitive developments, or continue to update our technology to enhance the features and functionality of our suite of products. Our personnel must continually stay current with vendor and marketplace technology advancements, create solutions which may integrate evolving vendor products and services as well as services and solutions we provide, to meet changing marketplace and customer demand. Further, we may provide customized solutions and services that are solely reliant on our own marketing, design and fulfillment services, and we may lack the skills or personnel to execute. Our failure to innovate and provide bespoke value to our customers may erode our competitive position, market share and lead to reduce revenue and financial performance. In the software market, a number of companies market business-to-business electronic commerce solutions similar to ours, and competitors are adapting their product offerings to a SaaS platform. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors, and competitive pressures faced by us may harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. We also face indirect competition from customers potential internal development efforts and have to overcome customers potential reluctance to move away from legacy systems and processes. In all of our markets, some of our competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources than we do. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies, and customer requirements. Many current competitors may have, and potential competitors may have, greater name recognition, engage in more extensive promotional marketing and advertising activities, offer more attractive terms to customers, and adopt more aggressive pricing and credit policies than we do. We may not be successful in achieving revenue growth and may incur additional costs associated with our software products, which may have a material adverse effect on our future operating results as a whole. We rely on a small number of key vendors, and do not have long- term supply or guaranteed price agreements or assurance of stock availability with our vendors. A substantial portion of our revenue within our technology segment depends on a small number of key vendors. Products manufactured by Cisco Systems represented approximately 42%, 42%, and 47% of our technology segment net sales for the years ended March 31, 2019, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Products manufactured by NetApp, Hewlett Packard, Juniper Networks, Dell/EMC, and Arista Networks, represented approximately 20% - 22% of technology segment net sales for the last three years. 16 Table of Contents Our industry frequently experiences periods of product shortages from our vendors or our vendors distributors as a result of our vendors difficulties in projecting demand for certain products we sell; additional trade law provisions or regulations; additional duties, tariffs or other charges on imports or exports; natural disasters affecting our suppliers facilities; and significant labor disputes. As we do not stock inventory that is not related to an order we have received from our customer, we depend upon the supply of products available from our vendors to fulfill orders from our customers on a timely basis. The loss of, or change in business relationship with, any of these or any other key vendor partners, the diminished availability of their products, or backlogs for their products leading to manufacturer allocation could reduce the supply and increase the cost of products we sell and negatively impact our competitive position. The loss of a key vendor or changes in its policies could adversely impact our financial results. Violations of a contract that results in either the termination of our ability to sell the product or a decrease in our certification level with the vendor could adversely impact our financial results. In addition, a reduction in the trade credit lines or the favorable terms granted to us by our vendors and financial partners could increase our need for and cost of working capital and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience a reduction in incentives offered to us and earned by us from our vendors that would affect our earnings. We receive payments and credits from vendors, including consideration pursuant to volume incentive programs, shared marketing expense programs, and early pay discounts. These programs are usually of finite terms and may not be renewed or may be changed in a way that adversely affects us. Vendor funding is used to offset inventory costs, costs of goods sold, marketing costs and other operating expenses. Certain of these funds are based on our volume of purchases, growth rate of purchases, and marketing programs. If we do not grow our sales over prior periods, or if we do not comply with the terms of these programs, or do not sell certain products that earn the incentive, there could be a material negative effect on the amount of incentives offered or paid to us by vendors. We may not continue to receive such incentives or may not be able to collect outstanding amounts relating to these incentives in a timely manner, or at all. Any sizeable reduction in, the discontinuance of, a significant delay in receiving, or the inability to collect such incentives, particularly related to incentive programs with our largest vendors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to react timely to any fundamental changes in the programs of vendors, including the elimination of funding for some of the activities for which we have been compensated in the past, such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on third-party companies to perform certain of our obligations to our customers, which if not performed adequately could cause significant disruption to our business. We rely on arrangements with third-parties to perform certain professional services, managed services, warranties, configuration services, and other services for our customers. If these third-parties do not perform these in accordance with the terms of our agreement and of a professional standard customary for the services, or if they cause disruption of or security weaknesses in our customers businesses, results to our organization could include legal claims and associated costs, monetary damages paid to our customers, and an adverse effect on our customer relationships, our brand, and our reputation, and our results of operations or cash flows could be affected. We rely on independent shipping companies to deliver products from us and our vendors to our customers. The failure or inability of these shipping companies to deliver products, or the unavailability of their shipping services, even temporarily, could have an adverse effect on our business. We may also be adversely affected by an increase in freight surcharges that may result from economic, supply-chain, geopolitical, or other disruptions. We may incorrectly import or export products when shipping to and from different countries. Violation of trade laws may disrupt our international operations negatively or impair our reputation or we may incur monetary damage. Violation of trade laws may also result in audits, fines, penalties, litigation, or administrative enforcement actions with associated costs. 17 Table of Contents Breaches of data security and the failure to protect our information technology systems from cybersecurity threats could adversely impact our business. Our business involves the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of our employees, customers and others. In addition, we operate data centers for our customers that host their technology infrastructure and may store and transmit both business-critical data and confidential information. In connection with our services business, some of our employees also have access to our customers confidential data and other information. We have privacy and data security policies in place that are designed to prevent security breaches; however, as newer technologies evolve, and the portfolio of the service providers with which we share confidential information with grows, we could be exposed to increased risk of breaches in security and other illegal or fraudulent acts, including cyberattacks. The evolving nature of such threats, in light of new and sophisticated methods used by criminals and cyberterrorists, including computer viruses, malware, phishing, misrepresentation, social engineering and forgery, are making it increasingly challenging to anticipate and adequately mitigate these risks. We may not be able to hire and/or retain personnel that we need. To increase market awareness and sales of our offerings, we may need to expand our marketing efforts and sales operations in the future. Our products and services require a sophisticated sales effort and significant technical engineering talent. For example, our sales and engineering candidates must have highly technical hardware and software knowledge to create a customized solution for our customers business processes. Competition for qualified sales, marketing and engineering personnel fluctuates depending on market conditions. The US is currently in a low unemployment environment and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient personnel to maintain and grow our business. In addition, changes to immigration laws may impact our ability to hire or retain talent. Frequently, our competitors require their employees to agree to non-compete and non-solicitation agreements as part of their employment. This makes it more difficult for us to hire and increases our costs by reviewing and managing non-compete restrictions. Additionally, in some cases our relationship with a customer may be impacted by turnover in our sales or engineering team. We face substantial competition from other companies. In our technology segment, we compete in all areas of our business against local, regional, national, and international firms, including other direct marketers; national and regional resellers; online marketplace competitors; and regional, national, and international service providers. In addition, we face competition from vendors, which may choose to market their products directly to end-users, rather than through channel partners such as our company, and this could adversely affect our future sales. Many competitors compete based principally on price and may have lower costs or accept lower selling prices than we do and, therefore, our gross margins may not be maintainable. Online market place competitors are continually improving their pricing and offerings to customers as well as ease of use of their online marketplaces. Our competitors may offer better or different products and services than we offer. In addition, we do not have guaranteed purchasing volume commitments from our customers and, therefore, our sales volume may be volatile. In our financing segment, we face competition from many sources including much larger companies with greater financial resources. Our competition may originate from vendors of the products we finance or financial partners who choose to market directly to customers through the vendors captive leasing organization or large or regional financial institutions such as banks with substantially lower cost of funds. Our competition may lower lease rates to increase market share. If we fail to perform sufficient due diligence prior to completing an acquisition, or entering into a strategic alliance, or fail to integrate a completed acquisition our earnings may be affected. Our ability to successfully integrate the operations we acquire, reduce costs, or leverage these operations to generate revenue and earnings growth, could significantly impact future revenue and earnings. Integrating acquired operations is a significant challenge, may divert managements attention from other business concerns, and there is no assurance that we will be able to manage the integrations successfully. Failure to successfully integrate acquired operations may adversely affect our cost structure thereby reducing our gross margins and return on investment. In addition, we may fail to perform adequate due diligence and acquire entities with unknown liabilities, fraud, cultural or business environment issues, or that may not have adequate internal controls as may be required by law. 18 Table of Contents If we acquire a company that does not fit culturally, strategically, or in some other fashion, the acquisition may not produce the expected results or may negatively affect our reputation, which may negatively affect our business, results of operations, or cash flows. In addition, our financial results could be adversely affected by financial adjustments required by generally accepted accounting principles in the US (GAAP) in connection with these types of transactions where significant goodwill or intangible assets are recorded. To the extent the value of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired; we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. Our earnings may fluctuate, which could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our earnings are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed herein . In the event our sales or net earnings are less than the level expected by the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Rising interest rates or the loss of key lenders may affect our future profitability and our ability to monetize our financing receivables and investments in operating leases. We finance transactions with our customers utilizing fix-rate borrowing. If we fund such transactions at inception with a third-party lender, we are able to lock an interest rate spread on the transaction between the customer rate and third-party rate. However, we may delay funding the transaction, and if interest rates increase in the interim, the interest rate spread will decrease, which will adversely impact our profitability, or we may not choose to fund the transaction due to higher interest rates, thus inhibiting our ability to monetize our portfolio to generate cash. We rely on lenders to fund financing transactions we originate with our customers. Loss of any lender or group of lenders may significantly impact our ability to originate financing transactions, which may negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, our lenders may no longer be willing to provide funding under our current terms and conditions and may demand new terms and conditions that negatively impact our ability to consummate a financing transaction with our customers. We are also subject to changes, if any, in our lenders willingness to provide financing for different, particularly lower, credit quality lessees. We may not have designed or maintained our IT systems to support our business. We depend heavily upon the accuracy and reliability of our information, telecommunication, cybersecurity and other systems including the operation of redundant systems if there are failures in our primary systems, which are used for customer management, sales, distribution, marketing, purchasing, inventory management, order processing and fulfillment, customer service and general accounting functions. We must continually maintain, secure and improve our systems. The protections we have in place address a variety of threats to our information technology systems, both internal and external, including human error. Inadequate security practices or design of our IT systems, or IT systems from third-parties which we utilize, or third-party service providers failure to provide adequate services could result in the disclosure of sensitive or confidential information or personal information or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Inadequate design or interruption of our information systems, Internet availability, telecommunications systems or power failures could have a material adverse effect on our business, our reputation, financial condition, cash flows, or results of operations. Our managed services business requires us to monitor our customers devices on their networks across varying levels of service. If we have not designed our IT systems to provide this service accurately or if there is a security breach in our IT system or the customers systems, we may be liable for claims. We rely on the competency of our internal IT personnel. Our failure to hire, develop, retain, and supervise competent IT personnel to secure our data, design redundant systems, or design and maintain our technology systems including our data and voice networks, and applications, could significantly interrupt our business causing a negative impact on our results. 19 Table of Contents We may not adequately protect ourselves through our contract vehicles, or our insurance policies may not be adequate to address potential losses or claims. Our contracts may not protect us against the risks inherent in our business including, but not limited to, warranties, limitations of liability, indemnification obligations, human resources and subcontractor-related claims, patent and product liability, regulatory and compliance obligations, data security and privacy, and financing activities. Also, we face pressure from our customers for competitive pricing and contract terms. Despite the non-recourse nature of the loans financing certain of our activities, non-recourse lenders may file suit if the underlying transaction turns out poorly for the lenders. We are subject to such claims and the cost of defending such claims due to the nature of our business. We also are subject to audits by various vendor partners and customers, including government agencies, relating to purchases and sales under various contracts. In addition, we are subject to indemnification claims under various contracts. We depend on having creditworthy customers to avoid an adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Our financing and technology segments require sufficient amounts of debt or equity capital to fund our equipment purchases. If the credit quality of our customer base materially decreases, or if we experience a material increase in our credit losses, we may find it difficult to continue to obtain the required capital for our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be harmed. In addition to the impact on our ability to attract capital, a material increase in our delinquency and default experience would itself have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. As of March 31, 2019, and 2018, we had reserves for credit losses of $2.6 million and $2.7 million, respectively. We may be liable for misuse of our customers or employees information. Third-parties, such as hackers, could circumvent or sabotage the security practices and products used in our product and service offerings, and/or the security practices or products used in our internal IT systems, which could result in disclosure of sensitive or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats. If third-parties or our employees are able to maliciously penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our customers information or employees personal information, or other information for which our customers may be responsible and for which we agree to be responsible in connection with service contracts into which we may enter, or if we give third-parties or our employees improper access to certain information, we could be subject to liability. This liability could include claims for unauthorized access to devices on our network; unauthorized access to our customers networks, applications, data, devices, or software; unauthorized purchases with credit card information; and identity theft or other similar fraud-related claims. This liability could also include claims for other misuses of or inappropriate access to personal information. Other liability could include claims alleging misrepresentation of our privacy and data security practices. Any such liability for misappropriation of this information could decrease our profitability. In addition, federal and state agencies have been investigating various companies regarding whether they misused or inadequately secured information. We could incur additional expenses when new laws or regulations regarding the use of information are enacted, or if governmental agencies require us to substantially modify our privacy or security practices. We could fail to comply with international and domestic data privacy laws, the violation of which may result in audits, fines, penalties, litigation, or administrative enforcement actions with associated costs. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments may result in a compromise or breach of the security practices we use to protect sensitive customer transaction information and employee information. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Further, third-parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords, or other information or otherwise compromise the security of our internal networks and/or our customers information. Since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently and the size and severity of security breaches are increasing, we may be unable to implement adequate preventative measures or timely identify or stop security breaches while they are occurring. 20 Table of Contents We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to remediate the subsequent risks and issues caused by such breaches. Our security measures are designed to protect against security breaches, but our failure to prevent such security breaches could cause us to incur significant expense to investigate and respond to a security breach and correct any problems caused by any breach, subject us to liability, damage our reputation, and diminish the value of our brand. There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage for errors and omissions or security breaches will continue to be available on acceptable terms or in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims, or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage, or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to comply with our public-sector contracts or applicable laws and regulations could result in, among other things, termination, fines or other liabilities, and changes in procurement regulations could adversely impact our business. Revenues in our public sector are derived from sales to state and local government and educational institution (SLED) customers, through various contracts and open market sales of products and services. Sales to SLED customers are highly regulated. Noncompliance with contract provisions, government procurement regulations, or other applicable laws or regulations could result in civil, criminal, and administrative liability, including substantial monetary fines or damages, termination of SLED sector customer contracts, and suspension, debarment, or ineligibility from doing business with the government and other customers in the SLED sector. In addition, contracts in the SLED sector are generally terminable at any time for convenience of the contracting agency or upon default and are subject to audits. In addition, most contracts require successfully bidding and award of the contract. These bid processes can be complex and require extensive review of terms and conditions and data compilation. Multiple bidders may win a product category, which creates aggressive competition even after contract award. The effect of any of these possible actions could adversely affect our business, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, the adoption of new or modified procurement regulations and other requirements may increase our compliance costs and reduce our gross margins, which could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows. Failure to comply with new laws or changes to existing laws may adversely impact our business. Our operations are subject to numerous US and foreign laws and regulations in a number of areas including, but not limited to, areas of labor and employment, immigration, advertising, e-commerce, tax, import and export requirements, anti-corruption, data privacy requirements, anti-competition, and environmental, health, and safety. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and they may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, further increasing the cost of compliance and doing business, and the risk of noncompliance. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to help comply with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no certainty that against employees, contractors, or agents will fully comply with laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Loss of services by any of our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement a succession plan could adversely affect our business. The loss of the services by our executive officers or senior management and/or failure to successfully implement a succession plan could disrupt management of our business and impair the execution of our business strategies. We believe that our success depends in part upon our ability to retain the services of our executive officers and senior management and successfully implement a succession plan. Our executive officers are at the forefront in determining our strategic direction and focus. The loss of our executive officers and senior managements services without replacement by qualified successors could adversely affect our ability to manage effectively our overall operations and successfully execute current or future business strategies, and could cause other instability within our workforce We rely on inventory and accounts receivable financing arrangements for working capital and our accounts payable processing. The loss of the technology segments credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and the operational function of our accounts payable process. Our credit agreement contains various covenants that must be met each quarter and either party may terminate the agreement for any reason with a 90-days notice. There can be no assurance that we will continue to meet those covenants and failure to do so may limit availability of, or cause us to lose, such financing. There can be no assurance that such financing will continue to be available to us in the future on acceptable terms. 21 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards, or the misapplication of current accounting standards, may adversely affect our future financial results. We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the US These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. Future periodic assessments required by current or new accounting standards may result in noncash charges and/or changes in presentation or disclosure. In addition, any change in accounting standards may influence our customers decision to purchase from us or finance transactions with us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We are required to determine if we are the principal or agent in all transactions with our customers. The voluminous number of products and services we sell, and the manner in which they are bundled, are technologically complex. Mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition polices. We use estimates where necessary, such as the fair value of assets acquired, and liabilities assumed in a business combination, the analysis for goodwill impairment, allowance for doubtful accounts and the cost to perform professional and managed services, which require judgment and are based on best available information. If we are unable to accurately estimate the cost of these services or the time-line for completion of contracts, the profitability of our contracts may be materially and adversely affected. We may not be able to realize our entire investment in the equipment we lease. The realization of the residual value of the equipment we lease, predominantly at the end of the term of a lease, as well as during the life of the lease, is an important element in our financing segment. At the inception of certain leases, we record a residual value for the leased equipment based on our estimate of the value of the equipment at the expected disposition date. A decrease in the market value of leased equipment at a rate greater than the rate we projected, whether due to rapid technological or economic obsolescence, excessive or unusual wear and tear on the equipment, or other factors, would adversely affect the recoverability of the estimated residual values of such equipment. Further, certain equipment residual values are dependent on the vendors warranties, reputation, rules regarding relicensing of software to operate the equipment, and other factors, including market liquidity. In addition, we may not realize the full market value of equipment if we are required to sell it to meet liquidity needs or for other reasons outside of the ordinary course of business. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will realize our estimated residual values for equipment. The degree of residual realization risk varies by transaction type. Direct financing leases bear less risk because contractual payments typically cover 90% or more of the equipments lease cost at inception. Operating leases have a higher degree of risk because a smaller percentage of the equipments value is covered by contractual cash flows at lease inception. Our results of operations are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency. We have several foreign subsidiaries and conduct business in various countries and currencies. As result of these foreign operations, we have exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulting primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. While our consolidated financial statements are reported in US dollars, the financial statements of our subsidiaries outside the US are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into US dollars. As a result, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the US dollar relative to the functional currencies of our subsidiaries could cause fluctuations in our results of operations. Our operations in our foreign countries is insignificant. We also have foreign currency exposure to the extent net sales and purchases are not denominated in a subsidiarys functional currency, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or cash flows. If we publish inaccurate catalog content data, our business could suffer. Any defects or errors in our electronic catalog content data could harm our customers or deter businesses from participating in our offerings, damage our business reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, and potentially expose us to liability. In addition, from time to time vendors who provide us electronic catalog data could submit to us inaccurate pricing or other catalog data. Even though such inaccuracies are not caused by us and are outside of our control, such inaccuracies could deter current and potential customers from using our products or result in inaccurate pricing to our customers. 22 Table of Contents We may be required to take impairment charges for goodwill or other intangible assets related to acquisitions. We have acquired certain portions of our business and assets through acquisitions. Further, as part of our long-term business strategy, we may continue to pursue acquisitions of other companies or assets. In connection with prior acquisitions, we have accounted for the portion of the purchase price paid in excess of the book value of the assets acquired as goodwill or intangible assets, and we may be required to account for similar premiums paid on future acquisitions in the same manner. Under the applicable accounting principles, goodwill is not amortized and is carried on our books at its original value, subject to annual review and evaluation for impairment, whereas intangible assets are amortized over the life of the asset. Changes in the business itself, the economic environment (including business valuation levels and trends), or the legislative or regulatory environment may trigger a review and evaluation of our goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment outside of the normal review periods. These changes may adversely affect either the fair value of the business or our individual reporting units and we may be required to take an impairment charge. If market and economic conditions deteriorate, this could increase the likelihood that we will need to record impairment charges to the extent the carrying value of our goodwill exceeds the fair value of our overall business. Such impairment charges could materially adversely affect our net earnings during the period in which the charge is taken. As of March 31, 2019, we had goodwill and other intangible assets of $110.8 million and $38.9 million, respectively. We face risks of claims from third-parties for intellectual property infringement, including counterfeit products, that could harm our business. We may be subject to claims that our products and services, or products that we resell, infringe on the intellectual property rights of third-parties and/or are counterfeit products. The vendor of certain products or services we resell may not provide us with indemnification for infringement or indemnification; however, our customers may seek indemnification from us. We could incur substantial costs in defending infringement claims against ourselves and our customers. In the event such claims, we and our customers may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third-parties. We may not be able to obtain such licenses from third-parties at a reasonable cost or at all. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such required license could significantly increase our expenses and/or adversely affect our ability to offer one or more of our services. If our proprietary software products contain defects, our business could suffer. Products as complex as those used to provide our electronic commerce solutions or cloud automation solutions, such as scripts, often contain unknown and undetected errors, performance problems, or use open source code. We may have serious defects immediately following introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. Undetected errors or performance problems may be discovered in the future and certain errors we consider to be minor may be serious to our customers. Our software products, or automation solutions, may be circumvented or sabotaged by third-parties such as hackers, which could result in the disclosure of sensitive information or personal information, unauthorized procurement, or cause other business interruptions that could damage our reputation and disrupt our business. Attacks may range from random attempts to coordinated and targeted attacks, including sophisticated computer crime and advanced persistent threats . In addition, our customers may experience a loss in connectivity to our proprietary software solutions because of a power loss at our data center, Internet interruption, or defects in our software. This could result in lost revenues, delays in customer acceptance, security breaches, and unforeseen liabilities that would be detrimental to our reputation and to our business. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property and costs to protect our intellectual property may affect our earnings. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, upon proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret laws, and contractual provisions with our customers, subcontractors and employees to protect our proprietary technology. It may be possible for unauthorized third-parties to copy certain portions of our products or reverse engineer or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Some of our agreements with our customers and technology licensors contain residual clauses regarding confidentiality and the rights of third-parties to obtain the source code for our products. These provisions may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in the future that could seriously harm our business and operating results. Our means of protecting our intellectual property rights may not be adequate. 23 Table of Contents The legal and associated costs to protect our intellectual property may significantly increase our expenses and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We may deem it necessary to protect our intellectual property rights and significant expenses could be incurred with no certainty of the results of these potential actions. Costs relative to lawsuits are usually expensed in the periods incurred and there is no certainty in recouping any of the amounts expended regardless of the outcome of any action. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our company, or if they issue unfavorable commentary about us or our industry or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that third-party securities analysts publish about us and our industry. One or more analysts could downgrade our common stock, or issue other negative commentary about us or our industry. If one or more of the analysts that publish research about us cease coverage, we could lose visibility in the market or such discontinuance may be viewed negatively by the market. As a result of one or more of these factors, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Future offerings of debt or equity securities, which would rank senior to our common stock, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If, in the future, we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of our future offerings, if any. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock and diluting the value of their stock holdings in our common stock. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES As of March 31, 2019, we lease space for 41 offices or warehouses. Our total leased square footage as of March 31, 2019, was approximately 321 thousand square feet for which we incurred rent expense of approximately $631 thousand per month. Some of our subsidiaries operate in shared office space to support sales, marketing activities and produce cost efficiency. Some sales and technical service personnel work from either home offices or at customer sites. Our largest office location is in Herndon, Virginia. The lease contract terminates on December 31, 2022. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. Legal proceedings which may arise in the ordinary course of business include, but are not limited to, preference payment claims asserted in customer bankruptcy proceedings; tax audits; claims of alleged infringement of patents, trademarks, copyrights, and other intellectual property rights; claims of alleged non-compliance with contract provisions; employment-related claims; claims by competitors, vendors, or customers; claims related to alleged violations of laws and regulations; and claims relating to alleged security or privacy breaches. We attempt to ameliorate the effect of potential litigation through insurance coverage and contractual protections such as rights to indemnifications and limitations of liability. Additionally, we proactively seek to recover funds to which we may be entitled. From time to time, we are successful in obtaining recoveries by filing a claim in class action suits, however, we have limited insight into the timing or amount of those recoveries. We provide for costs relating to contingencies when a loss is probable, and the amount is reasonably determinable. In the opinion of management, there was not at least a reasonable possibility that the Company may have incurred a material loss, or a material loss in excess of a recorded accrual, with respect to loss contingencies for asserted legal and other claims. However, the outcome of legal proceedings and claims brought against us is subject to significant uncertainty. Therefore, although management considers the likelihood of such an outcome to be remote, if one or more of these legal matters were resolved against the Company in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the Companys consolidated financial statements for that reporting period could be materially adversely affected. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable 25 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET INFORMATION At March 31, 2019, our common stock traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PLUS. On May 21, 2019, there were approximately 143 stockholders of record of our common stock, although there is a much larger number of beneficial owners. DIVIDEND POLICIES AND RESTRICTIONS We did not pay any cash dividends on our common stock during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019, and 2018. Holders of our common stock are entitled to dividends if and when declared by our Board of Directors (Board) out of funds legally available. Generally, we have retained our earnings for use in the business. We currently intend to retain future earnings to fund ongoing operations and finance the growth and development of our business. Any future determination concerning the payment of dividends will depend upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and any other factors deemed relevant by our Board. PURCHASES OF OUR COMMON STOCK The following table provides information regarding our purchases of e Plus inc. common stock during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. The numbers of shares and price per share for the prior periods presented in the table have been retroactively restated to reflect the stock split. See Note 1 Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 11 Stockholders Equity in the consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information on the stock split. Period Total number of shares purchased (1) Average price paid per share Total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs Maximum number (or approximate dollar value) of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs April 1, 2018 through April 30, 2018 69,645 $ 78.14 69,645 20,516 (2) May 1, 2018 through May 27, 2018 800 $ 79.93 800 19,716 (3) May 28, 2018 through May 31, 2018 - $ - - 519,716 (4) June 1, 2018 through June 30, 2018 37,086 $ 95.80 - 519,716 (5) July 1, 2018 through July 31, 2018 3,006 $ 101.50 - 519,716 (6) August 1, 2018 through August 18, 2018 - $ - - 519,716 (7) August 19, 2018 through August 31, 2018 - $ - - 500,000 (8) September 1, 2018 through September 30, 2018 - $ - - 500,000 (9) October 1, 2018 through October 31, 2018 21,505 $ 84.57 21,505 478,495 (10) November 1, 2018 through November 30, 2018 14,513 $ 81.93 14,513 463,982 (11) December 1, 2018 through December 31, 2018 49,624 $ 70.76 49,624 414,358 (12) January 1, 2019 through January 31, 2019 28,939 $ 72.58 28,939 385,419 (13) February 1, 2019 through February 28, 2019 - $ - - 385,419 (14) March 1, 2019 through March 31, 2019 - $ - - 385,419 (15) (1) Any shares acquired were in open-market purchases, except for 37,086 shares repurchased in June and 3,006 repurchased in July 2018 to satisfy tax withholding obligations that arose due to the vesting of shares of restricted stock. (2) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended April 30, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of April 30, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 20,516. (3) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended May 31, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of May 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 19,716. 26 Table of Contents (4) On April 26, 2018, the Board authorized the Company to repurchase up to 500,000 shares of our outstanding common stock commencing on May 28, 2018 and continuing to May 27, 2019. As of May 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 519,716 under both authorizations. (5) The share purchase authorizations in place for the month ended June 30, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 519,716 shares. As of June 30, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 519,716. (6) The share purchase authorizations in place for the month ended July 31, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 519,716 shares. As of July 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 519,716. (7) The share purchase authorization in place for outstanding common stock over a 12-month period expired on August 18, 2018, which had a remaining unused authorization for the repurchase of 19,716 shares. As of August 18, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 519,716. (8) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended August 31, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of August 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 500,000. (9) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended September 30, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of September 30, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 500,000. (10) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended October 31, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of October 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 478,495. (11) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended November 30, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of November 30, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 463,982. (12) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended December 31, 2018 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of December 31, 2018, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 414,358. (13) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended January 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of January 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 385,419. (14) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended February 28, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of February 28, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 385,419. (15) The share purchase authorization in place for the month ended March 31, 2019 had purchase limitations on the number of shares of up to 500,000 shares. As of March 31, 2019, the remaining authorized shares to be purchased were 385,419. The timing and expiration date of the share repurchase authorizations are included in Note 11 , Stockholders Equity to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and with the consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended March 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017 and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of March 31, 2019 and 2018 presented below was derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere herein. On March 31, 2017, we completed a two-for-one stock split in the form of a stock dividend. Per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted for this stock split. The selected financial data as of and for the years ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included in this report. For the years ended March 31, Statement of Operations Data: 2019 2018 (a) 2017 (a) 2016 2015 (in thousands, except per share data) Net sales $ 1,372,673 $ 1,418,802 $ 1,331,778 $ 1,204,199 $ 1,143,282 Cost of sales 1,042,285 1,095,320 1,032,019 942,142 898,735 Gross profit 330,388 323,482 299,759 262,057 244,547 Operating expense 250,854 239,243 214,027 186,306 173,837 Operating income 79,534 84,239 85,732 75,751 70,710 Other income 6,696 (348 ) 380 - 7,603 Earnings before provision for income taxes 86,230 83,891 86,112 75,751 78,313 Provision for income taxes 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 32,473 Net earnings $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 $ 45,840 Net earnings per common share - basic $ 4.70 $ 4.00 $ 3.65 $ 3.08 $ 3.13 Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 $ 3.10 For the years ended March 31, Balance Sheet Data: 2019 2018 (a) 2017 (a) 2016 2015 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 79,816 $ 118,198 $ 109,760 $ 94,766 $ 76,175 Accounts receivablenet 341,227 296,688 291,016 276,399 249,803 Total financing receivables and operating leasesnet 122,799 138,447 123,539 132,354 143,900 Total assets $ 786,198 $ 755,471 $ 741,720 $ 616,680 $ 568,275 Total non-recourse and recourse notes payable $ 48,647 $ 52,278 $ 37,424 $ 47,422 $ 56,564 Total liabilities $ 361,945 $ 382,868 $ 395,802 $ 297,802 $ 289,013 Total stockholders equity $ 424,253 $ 372,603 $ 345,918 $ 318,878 $ 279,262 Weighted average common shares outstandingbasic 13,448 13,790 13,867 14,513 14,636 Weighted average common shares outstandingdiluted 13,578 13,967 14,028 14,688 14,786 Note (a) Amounts for 2018 and 2017 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of Topic 606. 28 Table of Contents Other Financial Data: Our management monitors a number of financial and non-financial measures and ratios on a regular basis to track the progress of our business. We believe that the most important of these measures and ratios include net sales, gross margin, operating income margin, net earnings, net earnings per common share, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, Adjusted gross billings, non-GAAP net earnings, and non-GAAP net earnings per share. We use a variety of operating and other information to evaluate the operating performance of our business, develop financial forecasts, make strategic decisions, and prepare and approve annual budgets. These key indicators include financial information that is prepared in accordance with GAAP and presented in our consolidated financial statements as well as non-GAAP performance measurement tools. A summary of these key indicators which are not included in our consolidated financial statements is presented as follows, (dollars in thousands, except per share data): For the years ended March 31, Consolidated 2019 2018 (a) 2017 (a) 2016 2015 Net sales $ 1,372,673 $ 1,418,802 $ 1,331,778 $ 1,204,199 $ 1,143,282 Gross profit $ 330,388 $ 323,482 $ 299,759 $ 262,057 $ 244,547 Gross margin 24.1 % 22.8 % 22.5 % 21.7 % 21.3 % Operating income margin 5.8 % 5.9 % 6.4 % 6.3 % 6.2 % Net earnings $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 $ 45,840 Net earnings margin 4.6 % 3.9 % 3.8 % 3.7 % 4.0 % Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 $ 3.10 Non-GAAP: Net earnings (1) $ 69,580 $ 70,413 $ 68,997 $ 61,520 $ 55,378 Non-GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted (1) $ 5.12 $ 5.04 $ 4.92 $ 4.19 $ 3.75 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 100,415 $ 102,774 $ 99,287 $ 87,691 $ 79,514 Adjusted EBITDA margin 7.3 % 7.2 % 7.5 % 7.3 % 6.9 % Purchases of property and equipment used internally $ 6,042 $ 5,353 $ 3,356 $ 2,442 $ 3,610 Purchases of equipment under operating leases 5,587 2,237 6,202 12,026 8,163 Total capital expenditures $ 11,629 $ 7,590 $ 9,558 $ 14,468 $ 11,773 Technology Segment Net sales $ 1,329,520 $ 1,372,765 $ 1,294,937 $ 1,169,065 $ 1,108,449 Adjusted gross billings (3) $ 1,918,995 $ 1,899,685 $ 1,780,417 $ 1,562,191 $ 1,442,604 Gross profit $ 294,662 $ 287,287 $ 269,749 $ 237,283 $ 220,776 Gross margin 22.2 % 20.9 % 20.8 % 20.3 % 19.9 % Operating income $ 56,738 $ 62,389 $ 68,912 $ 63,689 $ 60,958 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 77,202 $ 80,555 $ 82,117 $ 75,223 $ 69,309 Financing Segment Net sales $ 43,153 $ 46,037 $ 36,841 $ 35,134 $ 34,833 Gross profit $ 35,726 $ 36,195 $ 30,010 $ 24,774 $ 23,771 Operating Income $ 22,796 $ 21,850 $ 16,820 $ 12,062 $ 9,752 Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ 23,213 $ 22,219 $ 17,170 $ 12,468 $ 10,205 Note (a) Amounts for 2018 and 2017 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of Topic 606. 29 Table of Contents (1) Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per common share diluted is based on net earnings calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude other income (expense), share-based compensation, and acquisition and integration expenses, and the related tax effects, the tax (benefit) expense due to the re-measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the new US tax rates, and an adjustment to our tax expense in the prior year assuming a 31.5% effective annual income tax rate for US operations. The presentation of non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per common share diluted have been changed from prior period presentations to include adjustments for expenses related to acquisitions such as legal, accounting, tax, and adjustments to the fair value of contingent purchase price consideration as well as stock compensation. We use non-GAAP net earnings per common share as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into our operating performance. We believe that the exclusion of other income and acquisition related amortization expense in calculating non-GAAP net earnings per common share provides management and investors a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business and operating results by excluding items that management believes are not reflective of our underlying operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that non-GAAP net earnings per common share provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results. However, our use of non-GAAP information as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate similar non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP net earnings per common share or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. For the years ended March 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 GAAP: Earnings before tax $ 86,230 $ 83,891 $ 86,112 $ 75,751 $ 78,313 Share based compensation 7,244 6,464 6,025 5,711 4,585 Acquisition and integration expense 1,813 2,150 278 681 (114 ) Acquisition related amortization expense 7,423 5,978 4,000 2,917 1,888 Other (income) expense (6,696 ) 348 (380 ) - (7,603 ) Non-GAAP: Earnings before provision for income taxes 96,014 98,831 96,035 85,060 77,069 GAAP: Provision for income taxes 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 32,473 Share based compensation 1,988 1,866 1,709 1,581 1,290 Acquisition and integration expense 522 621 79 188 (32 ) Acquisition related amortization expense 1,916 1,598 938 807 531 Other (income) expense (1,702 ) 101 (108 ) - (2,140 ) Remeasurement of deferred taxes - 1,654 - - - Adjustment to U.S. Federal Income Tax rate to 21% - (7,635 ) (11,650 ) (10,040 ) (10,431 ) Tax benefit on restricted stock 672 1,444 514 - - Non-GAAP: Provision for income taxes 26,434 28,418 27,038 23,540 21,691 Non-GAAP: Net earnings $ 69,580 $ 70,413 $ 68,997 $ 61,520 $ 55,378 For the years ended March 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 4.65 $ 3.95 $ 3.60 $ 3.05 $ 3.10 Share based compensation 0.38 0.33 0.31 0.28 0.22 Acquisition and integration expense 0.09 0.11 0.01 0.03 (0.01 ) Acquisition related amortization expense 0.40 0.32 0.22 0.14 0.09 Other (income) expense (0.35 ) 0.01 (0.02 ) - (0.37 ) Remeasurement of deferred taxes - (0.12 ) - - - Adjustment to U.S. Federal Income Tax rate to 21% - 0.54 0.84 0.69 0.72 Tax benefit on restricted stock (0.05 ) (0.10 ) (0.04 ) - - Total non-GAAP adjustments - net of tax $ 0.47 $ 1.09 $ 1.32 $ 1.14 $ 0.65 Non-GAAP: Net earnings per common share - diluted $ 5.12 $ 5.04 $ 4.92 $ 4.19 $ 3.75 30 Table of Contents (2) We define Adjusted EBITDA as net earnings calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for the following: interest expense, depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation, acquisition and integration expenses, provision for income taxes, and other income. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as operating income calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted for interest expense, share-based compensation, acquisition and integration expenses, and depreciation and amortization. We consider the interest on notes payable from our financing segment and depreciation expense presented within cost of sales, which includes depreciation on assets financed as operating leases, to be operating expenses. As such, they are not included in the amounts added back to net earnings in the Adjusted EBITDA calculation. We provide below a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net earnings, which is the most directly comparable financial measure to this non-GAAP financial measure. Adjusted EBITDA margin is our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA divided by net sales. The presentation of Adjusted EBITDA has been changed from prior period presentations to include adjustments for expenses related to acquisitions such as legal, accounting, tax, and adjustments to the fair value of contingent purchase price consideration as well as stock compensation. We use Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into our operating performance. We believe that the exclusion of other income in calculating Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin provides management and investors a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business and operating results by excluding items that management believes are not reflective of our underlying operating performance. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin provide useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our operating results. However, our use of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. For the years ended March 31, Consolidated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net earnings $ 63,192 $ 55,122 $ 50,556 $ 44,747 $ 45,840 Provision for income taxes 23,038 28,769 35,556 31,004 32,473 Share based compensation 7,244 6,464 6,025 5,711 4,585 Acquisition and integration expense 1,813 2,150 278 681 (114 ) Depreciation and amortization 11,824 9,921 7,252 5,548 4,333 Other (income) expense (6,696 ) 348 (380 ) - (7,603 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 100,415 $ 102,774 $ 99,287 $ 87,691 $ 79,514 Technology Segment Operating income $ 56,738 $ 62,389 $ 68,912 $ 63,689 $ 60,958 Depreciation and amortization 11,812 9,918 7,243 5,532 4,310 Share based compensation 6,839 6,098 5,684 5,321 4,155 Acquisition and integration expense 1,813 2,150 278 681 (114 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 77,202 $ 80,555 $ 82,117 $ 75,223 $ 69,309 Financing Segment Operating income $ 22,796 $ 21,850 $ 16,820 $ 12,062 $ 9,752 Depreciation and amortization 12 3 9 16 23 Share based compensation 405 366 341 390 430 Adjusted EBITDA $ 23,213 $ 22,219 $ 17,170 $ 12,468 $ 10,205 31 Table of Contents (3) We define Adjusted gross billings as our Technology segment net sales calculated in accordance with GAAP, adjusted to exclude the costs incurred related to sales of third-party software assurance, subscription licenses, maintenance and services. We have provided below a reconciliation of Adjusted gross billings to Technology segment net sales, which is the most directly comparable financial measures to this non-GAAP financial measure. We use Adjusted gross billings as a supplemental measure of our performance to gain insight into the volume of business generated by our technology segment, and to analyze the changes to our accounts receivable and accounts payable. Our use of Adjusted gross billings as analytical tools has limitations, and you should not consider them in isolation or as substitutes for analysis of our financial results as reported under GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, might calculate Adjusted gross billings or similarly titled measures differently, which may reduce their usefulness as comparative measures. For the years ended March 31, 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Technology segment net sales $ 1,329,520 $ 1,372,765 $ 1,294,937 $ 1,169,065 $ 1,108,449 Costs incurred related to sales of third party maintenance, software assurance and subscription/Saas licenses, and services 589,475 $ 526,920 $ 485,480 $ 393,126 $ 334,155 Adjusted gross billings $ 1,918,995 $ 1,899,685 $ 1,780,417 $ 1,562,191 $ 1,442,604 Note (a) Amounts for 2018 and 2017 have been adjusted to reflect the adoption of Topic 606. 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of operations (financial review) of e Plus is intended to help investors understand our company and our operations. The financial review is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Business Description e Plus and its consolidated subsidiaries provide leading IT products and services, flexible leasing and financing solutions, and enterprise supply management to enable our customers to optimize their IT infrastructure and supply chain processes. We design, implement and provide IT solutions for our customers. We are focused primarily on specialized IT segments including data center infrastructure, networking, security, cloud and collaboration. Our solutions incorporate hardware and software products from multiple leading IT vendors. As our customers IT requirements have grown increasingly complex, we have evolved our offerings by investing in our professional and managed services capabilities and by expanding our relationships with existing and emerging key vendors. We continue to strengthen our relationships with vendors focused on emerging technologies, which have enabled us to provide our customers with new and evolving IT solutions. We are an authorized reseller of over 1,000 vendors, but primarily of approximately 100 vendors, including Check Point, Cisco Systems, Dell EMC, FireEye, F5 Networks, Gigamon, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Juniper, McAfee, NetApp, Nimble, Oracle, Palo Alto Networks, Pure Storage, Splunk, VMware, and among many others. We possess top-level engineering certifications with a broad range of leading IT vendors that enable us to offer IT solutions that are optimized for each of our customers specific requirements. Our proprietary software solutions allow our customers to procure, control and automate their IT solutions environment. Financial Summary During the year ended March 31, 2019, net sales decreased 3.3% to $1,372.7 million, or a decrease of $46.1 million over the prior fiscal year. Product sales for the year ended March 31, 2019 decreased 5.1% to 1,223.2 million, or a decrease of $66.1 million from $1,289.3 million in the prior year. Services sales during the year ended March 31, 2019 increased 15.4% to $149.5 million, or an increase of $20.0 million over prior year services sales of $129.5 million. There was a decrease in demand for products due mostly from our customers in the technology, and telecom, media and entertainment industries, offset by increase in demand from healthcare, and all other category of customers. Consolidated gross profit increased 2.1%, to $330.4 million, compared to $323.5 million in the prior fiscal year due to higher margins. Consolidated gross margin increased 130 basis points to 24.1% for the year ended March 31, 2019, compared to 22.8% for the year ended March 31, 2018. The increase in gross margin was due to shifts in our revenue mix resulting from our continued focus on value added services for our customers, including the increase in sales of our advanced professional and managed services, sales of third-party maintenance agreements, and expanded gross profit and margins of our financing segment. 33 Table of Contents Operating income decreased $4.7 million, or 5.6%, to $79.5 million and operating margin decreased by 10 basis points to 5.8%, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2018. The decrease in operating earnings was due to a year over year increase in selling, general, and administrative expense of 3.9% or $9.0 million, due, in part to increases in variable compensation, healthcare costs and software license and maintenance, as well as the expenses associated with the acquisition of IDS in September 2017 and SLAIT in January 2019. As of March 31, 2019, we had 1,537 employees, an increase of 22.0% from 1,260 last year, of which 256 related to the acquisition of SLAIT. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $1.9 million, due to the acquisitions, and interest and financing costs increased $0.8 million, due to an increase in the average balance of non-recourse notes payable outstanding during the year, as well as higher interest rates. Our effective tax rate for the year ended March 31, 2019 was 26.7%, compared to 34.3% for the same period in the prior year, as our tax rate for fiscal year 2018 included a partial year impact of the change in the US statutory rate under the Tax Reform Act. The lower tax rate had a positive effect on net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2019 of $6.5 million compared to the prior year tax rate. Net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2019 increased 14.6% to $63.2 million, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2018. Net earnings for the year ended March 31, 2019 included other income of $6.3 million from payments received from distributions from various claims we owned in customer bankruptcies. Adjusted EBITDA for the year ended March 31, 2019 was $100.4 million, a decrease of $2.4 million, or 2.3%, from the prior year. For the year ended March 31, 2019 diluted earnings per share were $4.65, and increase of $0.70, or 17.7%, compared with the prior year of $3.95 per diluted share. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $5.12 for fiscal year 2019, an increase of $0.08, or 1.6%, from the prior year of $5.04 per diluted share. Cash and cash equivalents decreased $38.4 million, or 32.5%, to $79.8 million at March 31, 2019 compared to March 31, 2018. The decrease is primarily the result of $50.7 million paid in cash at closing of our acquisition of SLAIT, the repurchase of 410,144 shares of our common stock for $32.1 million under our stock repurchase authorization in the year ended March 31, 2019, investments in our financing portfolio, working capital required for the growth in our technology segment, and an increase in our cash conversion cycle, partially offset by cash flows from operations. Our cash on hand, funds generated from operations, amounts available under our credit facility and the possible monetization of our investment portfolio have provided sufficient liquidity for our business. Segment Overview Our operations are conducted through two segments: technology and financing. Technology Segment The technology segment derives revenue from sales of product, project related advanced professional services, managed services and staff augmentation. The technology segment sells primarily to corporate customers, state and local governments, and higher education institutions on a nationwide basis, with geographic concentrations relating to our physical locations. The technology segment also provides Internet-based business-to-business supply chain management solutions for information technology products. Customers who purchase IT equipment and services from us may have customer master agreements, or CMAs, with our company, which stipulate the terms and conditions of the relationship. Some CMAs contain pricing arrangements, and most contain mutual voluntary termination clauses. Our other customers place orders using purchase orders without a CMA in place or with other documentation customary for the business. Often, our work with state and local governments is based on public bids and our written bid responses. Our service engagements are generally governed by statements of work and are primarily fixed price (with allowance for changes); however, some service agreements are based on time and materials. We endeavor to minimize the cost of sales through incentive programs provided by vendors and distributors. The programs we qualify for are generally set by our reseller authorization level with the vendor. The authorization level we achieve and maintain governs the types of products we can resell as well as such items as pricing received, funds provided for the marketing of these products and other special promotions. These authorization levels are achieved by us through purchase volume, certifications held by sales executives or engineers and/or contractual commitments by us. The authorization levels are costly to maintain, and these programs continually change and, therefore, there is no guarantee of future reductions of costs provided by these vendor consideration programs. 34 Table of Contents Financing Segment Our financing segment offers financing solutions to corporations, governmental entities, and educational institutions nationwide and in the UK, Canada, Iceland, Spain, and the Netherlands. The financing segment derives revenue from leasing IT and medical equipment and the disposition of that equipment at the end of the lease. The financing segment also derives revenues from the financing of third-party software licenses, software assurance, maintenance and other services. Financing revenue generally falls into the following three categories: Portfolio income: Interest income from financing receivables and rents due under operating leases; Transactional gains: Net gains or losses on the sale of financial assets; and Post-contract earnings: Month-to-month rents; early termination, prepayment, make-whole, or buyout fees; and net gains on the sale of off-lease (used) equipment. We also recognize revenue from events that occur after the initial sale of a financial asset and remarketing fees from certain residual value investments. Fluctuations in Operating Results Our results of operations are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, without limitation, customer demand for our products and services, supplier costs, changes in vendor incentive programs, interest rate fluctuations, decision to sell financial assets, general economic conditions, and differences between estimated residual values and actual amounts realized related to the equipment we lease. Operating results could also fluctuate as a result of a sale prior to the expiration of the lease term to the lessee or to a third-party or from other post-term events. We expect to continue to expand by opening new sales locations and hiring additional staff for specific targeted market areas in the near future whenever we can find both experienced personnel and desirable geographic areas. These investments may reduce our results from operations in the short term. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The accounting policies described below are significantly affected by critical accounting estimates. Such accounting policies require significant judgments, assumptions, and estimates, and actual results could differ materially from the amounts reported based on these policies. REVENUE RECOGNITION. The majority of our revenues are derived from the following sources: sales of third-party products, software, software assurance, maintenance and services; sales of our advanced professional and managed services; sales of licenses of our software, and financing revenues. For all these revenue sources, we determine whether we are the principal or agent. Our revenue recognition policies vary based upon these revenue sources and the mischaracterization of these products and services could result in misapplication of revenue recognition polices. For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate the total consideration to the deliverables based on an estimated selling price. We determine the estimated selling price using cost plus a reasonable margin for each deliverable, which is based on our established policies and procedures for providing customers with quotes, as well as on historical data. Generally, sales of third-party products and software are recognized on a gross basis with the selling price to the customer recorded as sales and the acquisition cost of the product or software recorded as cost of sales. Revenue is recognized when the title and risk of loss are passed to the customer, there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement for sale, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Delivery for products is typically performed via drop-shipment by the vendor or distributor to our customers location, and for software via electronic delivery. Using these tests, the vast majority of our sales are recognized upon delivery due to our sales terms with our customers. We estimate the product delivered to our customers at the end of each quarter based upon an analysis of current quarter and historical delivery dates. 35 Table of Contents We sell software assurance, subscription licenses, maintenance and service contracts where the services are performed by a third-party. Software assurance is a service that allows customers to upgrade at no additional cost to the latest technology, if new applications are introduced during the period for which the software assurance is in effect. As we enter into contracts with third-party service providers, we evaluate whether we are acting as a principal or agent in the transaction. We conclude that we are acting as an agent and recognize revenue on a net basis at the date of sale when we are not responsible for the day-to-day provision of services in these arrangements and our customers are aware that the third-party service provider will provide the services to them. We provide e Plus advanced professional services under both time and materials and fixed price contracts. Under time and materials contracts, we recognize revenue at agreed-upon billing rates at the time services are performed. Under certain fixed price contracts, we recognize revenue based on the proportion of the services delivered to date as a percentage of the total services to deliver over the contract term. Using this method requires a determination of the appropriate input or output method to measure progress. When using an input method such as costs, we must estimate the inputs required over the entire term. Under other fixed price con tracts, we recognize revenue upon completion. Revenues from other e Plus services, such as maintenance, managed services and hosting services are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement. Financing revenues include income earned from investments in leases, leased equipment, and financed third-party software and services. We classify our investments in leases and leased equipment as either direct financing lease, sales-type lease, or operating lease, as appropriate. Revenue on direct financing and sales-type leases is deferred at the inception of the leases and is recognized over the term of the lease using the interest method. Revenue on operating leases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. We classify third-party software, maintenances, and services that we finance for our customers as notes receivable and recognize interest income over the term of the arrangement using the effective interest method. We account for the transfer of financial assets as sales or secured borrowings in accordance with Codification Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing . For transfers that qualify for sale treatment, we recognize a net gain on the later of the effective date of the transfer or the date that the transfer meets all the criteria for a sale. RESIDUAL VALUES. Residual values represent our estimated value of the equipment at the end of the initial lease term. Our estimated residual values will vary, both in amount and as a percentage of the original equipment cost, and depend upon several factors, including the equipment type, vendors discount, market conditions, lease term, equipment supply and demand, and new product announcements by vendors. We evaluate residual values on a quarterly basis and record any required impairments of residual value, in the period in which the impairment is determined. No upward adjustment to residual values is made subsequent to lease inception. GOODWILL. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of October 1, and between annual tests if an event occurs, or circumstances change, that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a level of reporting referred to as a reporting unit. In a qualitative assessment, we assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an event representing an indicator of impairment has occurred between annual test dates. Such indicators may include: a significant decline in expected future cash flows; a sustained, significant decline in stock price and market capitalization; a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; unanticipated competition; the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and reductions in revenue or profitability growth rates. In the quantitative impairment test, we compare the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit using a combination of the income approach and market approaches. The income approach incorporates the use of a discounted cash flow method in which the estimated future cash flows and terminal values for each reporting unit are discounted to a present value using a discount rate. Cash flow projections are based on managements estimates of economic and market conditions which drive key assumptions of revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The discount rate in turn is based on the specific risk characteristics of each reporting unit, the weighted average cost of capital and its underlying forecast. 36 Table of Contents The market approach estimates fair value by applying performance metric multiples to the reporting units prior and expected operating performance. The multiples are derived from comparable publicly traded companies with similar operating and investment characteristics as the reporting unit. The fair values determined by the market approach and income approach, as described above, are weighted to determine the fair value for each reporting unit. Although we have consistently used the same methods in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the fair value calculations, such estimates are uncertain and may vary from actual results. VENDOR CONSIDERATION. We receive payments and credits from vendors and distributors, including consideration pursuant to volume incentive programs, and shared marketing expense programs. Many of these programs extend over one or more quarters sales activities. Different programs have different vendor/program specific goals to achieve. We recognize the rebate based on a systematic and rational allocation of the cash consideration offered to each of the underlying transactions that results in our progress towards earning the rebate provided the amounts are probable and reasonably estimable. If actual performance does not match our estimates, we may be required to adjust our receivables. RESERVES FOR CREDIT LOSSES. We maintain our reserves for credit losses at a level believed to be adequate to absorb potential losses inherent in the respective balances. We assign an internal credit quality rating to all new customers and update these ratings regularly, but no less than annually. Managements determination of the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses for our accounts receivable is based on the age of the receivable balance, the customers credit quality rating, an evaluation of historical credit losses, current economic conditions, and other relevant factors. Managements determination of the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses for financing receivables may be based on the following factors: an internally assigned credit quality rating, historical credit loss experience, current economic conditions, volume, growth, the composition of the lease portfolio, the fair value of the underlying collateral, and the funding status (i.e. not funded, funded on a recourse or partial recourse basis, or funded on non-recourse basis), and other relevant factors. Our ongoing consideration of all these factors could result in an increase in our allowance for credit losses in the future, which could adversely affect our operating results. INCOME TAXES. We make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement reporting purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities, which principally arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement reporting purposes. We also must analyze income tax reserves, as well as determine the likelihood of recoverability of deferred tax assets and adjust any valuation allowances accordingly. Considerations with respect to the recoverability of deferred tax assets include the period of expiration of the tax asset, planned use of the tax asset, and historical and projected taxable income as well as tax liabilities for the tax jurisdiction to which the tax asset relates. Valuation allowances are evaluated periodically and will be subject to change in each future reporting period as a result of changes in one or more of these factors. The calculation of our tax liabilities also involves considering uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for uncertain income tax positions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be required. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS. We account for business combinations using the acquisition method, which requires us to allocate the purchase price for each acquisition to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the acquisition date. Our determination of the purchase price for the acquired business may include an estimate of the fair value of contingent consideration. The allocation process requires an analysis of intangible assets, customer relationships, trade names, acquired contractual rights and assumed contractual commitments and legal contingencies to identify and record all assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their fair value. Independent appraisals may be used to assist in the determination of the fair value of certain assets and liabilities. Such appraisals are based on significant estimates, such as forecasted revenues or profits utilized in determining the fair value of contract-related acquired intangible assets or liabilities. Any excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. Significant changes in assumptions and estimates subsequent to completing the allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired, as well as differences in actual and estimated results, could result in material impacts to our results of operations. 37 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS The information set forth in Note 2 , Recent Accounting Pronouncements to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Year Ended March 31, 2019 Compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2018 Technology Segment The results of operations for our technology segment for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Net sales Product $ 1,180,042 $ 1,243,270 $ (63,228 ) (5.1 %) Services 149,478 129,495 19,983 15.4 % Total 1,329,520 1,372,765 (43,245 ) (3.2 %) Cost of sales Product 945,037 1,013,748 (68,711 ) (6.8 %) Services 89,821 71,730 18,091 25.2 % Total 1,034,858 1,085,478 (50,620 ) (4.7 %) Gross profit 294,662 287,287 7,375 2.6 % Selling, general, and administrative 226,112 214,980 11,132 5.2 % Depreciation and amortization 11,812 9,918 1,894 19.1 % Operating expenses 237,924 224,898 13,026 5.8 % Operating income $ 56,738 $ 62,389 $ (5,651 ) (9.1 %) Adjusted gross billings $ 1,918,995 $ 1,899,685 $ 19,310 1.0 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 77,202 $ 80,555 $ (3,353 ) (4.2 %) Net sales: Net sales for the year ended March 31, 2019 decreased by $43.2 million or 3.2% to $1,329.5 million due to a decreases from our technology, and telecom, media and entertainment industries, which was partial offset by an increase in demand from healthcare, and all other category of customers. Product sales decreased 5.1% due to a shift in product mix. Services revenues increased 15.4%, or $20.0 million due to an increase in staff augmentation and managed services. Adjusted gross billings increased to $1,919.0 million, or 1.0%, from $1,899.7 million in the prior year. The increase in adjusted gross billings was due to acquisitions. This increase was offset by a shift in mix to third party maintenance, software assurance, subscriptions/SaaS licenses, and services where we recognize revenue on a net basis. As a result, net sales decreased year over year. We rely on our vendors or distributors to fulfill a large majority of our shipments to our customers. As of March 31, 2019, we had open orders of $161.4 million and deferred revenue of $59.9 million. As of March 31, 2018, we had open orders of $148.2 million and deferred revenues of $47.3 million. The increase of $12.6 million in deferred revenues as of March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year is due increases from advanced professional and managed services. 38 Table of Contents We analyze sales by customer end market and by manufacturer. The percentage of net sales by industry and vendor are summarized below: Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Revenue by customer end market: Technology 22 % 24 % (2 %) SLED 17 % 17 % 0 % Financial Services 15 % 15 % 0 % Healthcare 15 % 14 % 1 % Telecom, Media & Entertainment 13 % 14 % (1 %) All others 18 % 16 % 2 % Total 100 % 100 % Revenue by vendor: Cisco Systems 42 % 42 % 0 % HP Inc. & HPE 6 % 6 % 0 % Dell / EMC 5 % 4 % 1 % All others 47 % 48 % (1 %) Total 100 % 100 % Our revenues by customer end market have remained consistent over the prior year, with over 80% of our sales being generated from customers within the five end markets specified above. In fiscal year 2019, we had an increase in revenues from customers in the healthcare, and all others category of customer end markets, offset by decreases in revenues to technology, and telecommunications, media and entertainment customers. These changes were driven by changes in customer buying cycles and specific IT related initiatives, rather than the acquisition or loss of a customer or set of customers. The majority of our revenues by vendor are derived from Cisco Systems and Hewlett Packard companies, which remained at a constant percentage of 48% of total revenues for both fiscal year 2019 and 2018. None of the vendors included within the other category exceeded 5% of total revenues. Cost of sales: The 4.7% decrease in cost of sales was due to the decrease in product sales, an improvement in gross margin on product sales, and a higher amount of services revenues. Gross margin increased 130 basis points to 22.2% for the year ended March 31, 2019, from 20.9% in the prior year due to an increase in sales of third-party maintenance, software assurance, subscription/SaaS licenses, and services, for which the revenues are presented on a net basis, as well as increases in revenues from our professional and managed service. The change in revenue mix added 140 basis points to the gross margin, partially offset by a 10 basis points due to a reduction in vendor incentives earned as a percentage of sales for the year ended March 31, 2019 compared to the prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $226.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 increased by $11.1 million, or 5.2% from the prior year. Salaries and benefits increased $9.3 million or 5.3% to $186.8 million, compared to $177.5 million during the prior year. Approximately 26.5% of this increase was due to higher variable compensation due to the increase in gross profit, and the remaining increase was due to an increase in the number of employees. Our technology segment had 1,503 employees as of March 31, 2019, an increase of 288, or 23.7%, from 1,215 at March 31, 2018, 251 of which were added in the past year and relate to sales, marketing, and professional services personnel. The acquisition of SLAIT in January 2019, accounted for 256 of our employees as of March 31, 2019. Employee benefits, including healthcare, increased $0.6 million over the prior year. General and administrative expenses increased $1.5 million, or 4.8%, to $32.3 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 compared to $30.8 million the prior year. Contributing to the increase in costs the acquisition of SLAIT in January 2019, and IDS in September 2017. The remaining increase in general and administrative costs was due to increases in software license and maintenance. Depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation and amortization expense increased $1.9 million, or 19.1%, to $11.8 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 compared to $9.9 million in the prior year. The increase is related to the acquisition of SLAIT in January 2019, and IDS in September 2017. 39 Table of Contents Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income decreased $5.7 million, or 9.1%, to $56.7 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 and Adjusted EBITDA decreased 4.2% to $77.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2019. Financing Segment The results of operations for our financing segment for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Change Product sales $ 43,153 $ 46,037 $ (2,884 ) (6.3 %) Cost of sales 7,427 9,842 (2,415 ) (24.5 %) Gross profit 35,726 36,195 (469 ) (1.3 %) Selling, general, and administrative 10,970 13,147 (2,177 ) (16.6 %) Depreciation and amortization 12 3 9 300.0 % Interest and financing costs 1,948 1,195 753 63.0 % Operating expenses 12,930 14,345 (1,415 ) (9.9 %) Operating income $ 22,796 $ 21,850 $ 946 4.3 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 23,213 $ 22,219 $ 994 4.5 % Net sales : Net sales decreased by $2.9 million, or 6.3%, to $43.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2019. The decrease was due to a reduction in post-contract earnings, and other financing revenues, partially offset by higher portfolio earnings and transactional gains. Post-contract earnings decreased by $7.2 million to $19.1 million due mainly to a reduction from the prior year in early terminations of certain financing transactions, which were $5.1 million lower and a reduction in proceeds from the sale of off lease equipment of $4.7 million in the prior fiscal year, partially offset by $2.5 million in higher renewal rentals over the prior year. Other financing revenues decreased $1.0 million from $2.1 million in the prior year. Portfolio earnings increased $3.2 million to $13.3 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 compared to the prior year, due to increases in direct financing leases earnings, notes receivable earnings, and operating lease revenues. Transactional gains increased $2.3 million to $9.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 from $6.8 million in the prior year due to a higher volume of sales of financing receivables. T otal proceeds from sales of financing receivables were $276.1 million and $267.3 million for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively . Our total financing receivables and operating leases decreased as of March 31, 2019 to $122.8 million from $138.4 million in the prior year, which was due to a decrease in notes receivable of $22.4 million, partially offset by increases of $4.4 million and $2.4 million in operating leases and direct finance leases as compared to the prior year, respectively . Direct lease costs: Direct lease costs decreased 24.5%, or $2.4 million, to $7.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the prior year, due to a decrease in cost of off lease equipment sold in the current year by $3.1 million. Gross profit decreased slightly by $0.5 million or 1.3% due to primarily to lower post contract earnings and other financing revenues, partially offset by higher portfolio earnings and transactional gains compared to the prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $11.0 million, a decrease of $2.2 million or 16.6%, due primarily to a decrease in salaries and benefits and a reduction in bad debt reserve expense. Salaries and benefits decreased by $2.0 million, or 18.3%, to $9.0 million primarily due to a decrease in variable compensation of $1.9 million. Our financing segment employed 34 people as of March 31, 2019 compared to 45 employees as of March 31, 2018, a decrease of 32.4%. 40 Table of Contents Interest and financing costs: Costs increased by $0.8 million or 63.0% to $1.9 million during the year ended March 31, 2019, as compared to the prior year. Our total notes payable decreased as of March 31, 2019 to $48.7 million from $52.3 for the prior year, although our average balance of notes payable outstanding during the year was higher than during the year ended March 31, 2018. Our weighted average interest rate for our notes payable was 4.68% as of March 31, 2019 compared to 4.04% for March 31, 2018. Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income increased $0.9 million, or 4.3%, to $22.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2019. Adjusted EBITDA increased $1.0 million, or 4.5%, to $23.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2019. Consolidated Other income: Other income and expense during the year ended March 31, 2019 was $6.7 million and included other non-operating income of $6.3 million from payments received from distributions from various claims we owned in customer bankruptcies. Income taxes: Our effective income tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were 26.7% and 34.3%, respectively. In fiscal year 2018, we revised our estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect a change in the federal statutory rate from 35% to 21%, resulting from legislation that was enacted on December 22, 2017. The rate change is administratively effective at the beginning of fiscal years ending in 2018, using a blended rate for the annual period. As a result, the blended statutory tax rate for fiscal year 2018 was 31.5%. In addition, during fiscal year 2018, we recognized an estimated tax benefit in our tax provision for the period related to adjusting our deferred tax balance to reflect the new corporate tax rate. Net earnings: Net earnings were $63.2 million for the year ended March 31, 2019, an increase of 14.6% or $8.1 million as compared to $55.1 million in the prior fiscal year. The net earnings increase was due primarily to the increase in other income and the reduction in the tax rate in the current year compared to the year ended March 31, 2018. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2019, were $4.70 and $4.65, and increased 17.5% and 17.7% over the prior year, respectively. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share were $4.00 and $3.95, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2018. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2019 were 13.4 million and 13.6 million, respectively. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2018 were 13.8 million and 14.0 million, respectively. 41 Table of Contents The Year Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to the Year Ended March 31, 2017 Technology Segment The results of operations for our technology segment for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Net sales Product $ 1,243,270 $ 1,197,503 $ 45,767 3.8 % Services 129,495 97,434 32,061 32.9 % Total 1,372,765 1,294,937 77,828 6.0 % Cost of sales Product 1,013,748 971,648 42,100 4.3 % Services 71,730 53,540 18,190 34.0 % Total 1,085,478 1,025,188 60,290 5.9 % Gross profit 287,287 269,749 17,538 6.5 % Selling, general, and administrative 214,980 193,594 21,386 11.0 % Depreciation and amortization 9,918 7,243 2,675 36.9 % Operating expenses 224,898 200,837 24,061 12.0 % Operating income $ 62,389 $ 68,912 $ (6,523 ) (9.5 %) Adjusted gross billings $ 1,899,685 $ 1,780,417 $ 119,268 6.7 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 80,555 $ 82,117 $ (1,562 ) (1.9 %) Net sales: Net sales for the year ended March 31, 2018 increased by $77.8 million or 6.0% to $1,372.8 million due to an increase in demand for products and services due mostly from our technology, financial services, and healthcare customers. Product sales increased 3.8% due to increased demand from healthcare, financial services, and technology customer, which was partially offset by reductions in demand from SLED and telecom, media and entertainment customers. Sales of services increased 32.9%, or $32.1 million due to an increase in advanced professional and managed services. Adjusted gross billings increased to $1,899.7 million, or 6.7%, from $1,780.4 million in the prior year. The growth in Adjusted gross billings was due to an increase in demand from customers. The percentage increase in net sales was lower than the increase in Adjusted gross billings due to a shift in product mix, as a higher proportion of our sales consisted of third-party maintenance, software assurance, SaaS/subscription licenses, and services, which are presented on a net basis. We rely on our vendors or distributors to fulfill a large majority of our shipments to our customers. As of March 31, 2018, we had open orders of $148.2 million and deferred revenue of $47.3 million. As of March 31, 2017, we had open orders of $184.1 million and deferred revenues of $68.3 million. The decrease of $21.0 million in deferred revenues as of March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year is due reduction in the level of payments received for committed inventory. 42 Table of Contents We analyze sales by customer end market and by manufacturer. The percentage of net sales by industry and vendor are summarized below. Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Revenue by customer end market: Technology 24 % 23 % 1 % SLED 17 % 21 % (4 %) Financial Services 15 % 13 % 2 % Healthcare 14 % 11 % 3 % Telecom, Media & Entertainment 14 % 15 % (1 %) All others 16 % 17 % (1 %) Total 100 % 100 % Twelve Months Ended June 30, 2018 2017 Change Revenue by vendor: Cisco Systems 42 % 47 % (5 %) NetApp 4 % 6 % (2 %) HP Inc. & HPE 6 % 5 % 1 % All others 48 % 42 % 6 % Total 100 % 100 % Our revenues by customer end market have remained consistent over the prior year, with over 80% of our sales being generated from customers within the five end markets specified above. In fiscal year 2018, we had an increase in revenues from customers in the healthcare, financial services and technology industries, offset by decreases in revenues to SLED, and telecommunications, media and entertainment customers. These changes were driven by changes in customer buying cycles and specific IT related initiatives, rather than the acquisition or loss of a customer or set of customers. The majority of our revenues by vendor are derived from Cisco Systems, Hewlett Packard companies and NetApp, which in total, declined to 52% in our fiscal year 2019 from 58% in the prior year. This decrease is due to competition and developments in the IT industry. None of the vendors included within the other category exceeded 5% of total revenues. Cost of sales: The 5.9% increase in cost of sales was due to the increase in sales of product and services, offset by an improvement in gross margins. Our gross margin increased 10 basis points to 20.9% for the year ended March 31, 2018, from 20.8% in the prior year due to an increase in increases in revenues from our advanced professional and managed services, which were offset by lower product margins. The change in product mix added 50 basis points to the gross margin, while being offset by a 40 basis points due to a decrease in vendor incentives earned as a percentage of sales of product and services for the year ended March 31, 2018 compared to the prior year. There are ongoing changes to the incentive programs offered to us by our vendors. Accordingly, if we are unable to maintain the level of vendor incentives we are currently receiving, gross margins may decrease. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses of $215.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2018 increased by $21.4 million, or 11.0% from the prior year. Salaries and benefits increased $15.5 million or 9.5% to $177.5 million, compared to $162.1 million during the prior year. Approximately 18% of this increase was due to higher variable compensation due to the increase in gross profit, and the remaining increase was due to an increase in the number of employees. Our technology segment had 1,215 employees as of March 31, 2018, an increase of 89, or 7.9%, from 1,126 at March 31, 2017, of which 73 of the positions added in the past year relate to sales, marketing, and professional services personnel. The acquisitions of OneCloud and IDS personnel accounted for all of the net gain in the number of employees. General and administrative expenses increased $4.7 million, or 18.2%, to $30.8 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 compared to $26.1 million the prior year. The additional costs are substantially due to our expanding geographical presence and the acquisition of OneCloud in May 2017 and IDS in September 2017. We also incurred additional expenses due to increases in personnel, including communications, and travel and entertainment expenses. 43 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expense: Depreciation and amortization expense increased $2.7 million, or 36.9%, to $9.9 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 compared to $7.2 million in the prior year. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense is, again, related to the acquisition of OneCloud in May 2017 and IDS in September 2017. Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income decreased $6.5 million, or 9.5%, to $62.4 million for the year ended March 31, 2018 and Adjusted EBITDA decreased 1.9% to $80.6 million for the year ended March 31, 2018. Financing Segment The results of operations for our financing segment for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Change Product sales 46,037 34,452 9,196 26.7 % Cost of sales 9,842 4,442 5,400 121.6 % Gross profit 36,195 30,010 3,796 12.6 % Selling, general, and administrative 13,147 11,638 1,509 13.0 % Depreciation and amortization 3 9 (6 ) (66.7 %) Interest and financing costs 1,195 1,543 (348 ) (22.6 %) Operating expenses 14,345 13,190 1,155 8.8 % Operating income $ 21,850 $ 16,820 $ 2,641 15.7 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 22,219 $ 17,170 $ 5,049 29.4 % Net sales : Net sales increased by $9.2 million, or 25.0%, to $46.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2018. The increase was due to higher post-contract earnings, portfolio earnings and other financing revenue which were partially offset by lower transactional gains. Post-contract earnings increased by $11.3 million to $26.3 million due mainly to early terminations of certain financing transactions, and higher renewal rentals over the prior year. Portfolio earnings increased $0.8 million to $10.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2018 compared to the prior year, mainly due to an increase in operating lease revenues. Other financing revenues increased $0.2 million to $2.1 million. Transactional gains decreased $1.3 million to $6.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2018 from $8.1 million in the prior year due to a lower volume of sales of financing receivables. T otal proceeds from sales of financing receivables were $267.3 million and $339.4 million for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively . Our total financing receivables and operating leases increased as of March 31, 2018 to $138.4 million from $123.5 million in the prior year, which was due to an increase in notes receivables of $17.5 million, partially offset by reductions of $1.3 million in both operating leases and direct finance leases as compared to the prior year . Direct lease costs: Direct lease costs increased 44.1% or $3.0 million for the year ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year, due to increases in cost of off lease equipment sold and depreciation expense related to a higher volume of operating lease revenues. Gross profit increased $6.2 million or 20.6% due to higher post contract earnings, portfolio earnings, and other financing revenues, partially offset by transactional gains compared to the prior year. Selling, general, and administrative expenses: Selling, general, and administrative expenses were $13.1 million, an increase of $1.5 million or 13.0%, due to an increase in salaries and benefits, and software license and maintenance expense. Salaries and benefits increased by $1.7 million, or 17.6%, to $11.0 million primarily due to an increase in variable compensation due to the increase in gross profit. Our financing segment employed 45 people as of March 31, 2018 compared to 47 employees as of March 31, 2017. General and administrative expenses increased $0.1 million due to an increase reserves for credit losses expense of $0.3 million over the prior year, partially offset by cost control efforts. 44 Table of Contents Interest and financing costs: Costs decreased $0.3 million or 22.6% to $1.2 million during the year ended March 31, 2018, as compared to $1.5 million during the prior year. Our total notes payable increased as of March 31, 2018 to $52.3 million from $36.5 for the prior year, although our average balance of notes payable outstanding during the year was lower than during the year ended March 31, 2017. Our weighted average interest rate for our notes payable was 4.04% as of March 31, 2018 compared to 3.72% for March 31, 2017. Segment earnings : As a result of the foregoing, operating income increased $5.0 million, or 29.9% to $21.9 and million for the year ended March 31, 2018, while Adjusted EBITDA increased $5.0 million, or 29.4% to $22.2 and million for the year ended March 31, 2018. Consolidated Other income: Other income and expense during the year ended March 31, 2018 was a net expense of $0.3 million, which consists of interest income on cash and cash equivalents, more than offset by foreign currency transaction losses. During the year ended March 31, 2017, we received $380 thousand related to the dynamic random-access memory (DRAM) class action lawsuit, which claimed that manufacturers fixed the price for DRAM, a common component in consumer electronics, which is included within other income in our consolidated statement of operations. Income taxes: Our effective income tax rates for the years ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were 34.3% and 41.3%, respectively. In fiscal year 2018, we revised our estimated annual effective tax rate to reflect a change in the federal statutory rate from 35% to 21%, resulting from legislation that was enacted on December 22, 2017. The rate change is administratively effective at the beginning of fiscal years ending in 2018, using a blended rate for the annual period. As a result, the blended statutory tax rate for our current fiscal year is 31.5%. In addition, we recognized an estimated tax benefit in our tax provision for the period related to adjusting our deferred tax balance to reflect the new corporate tax rate. Income tax expense for fiscal year 2018 was adjusted to reflect the effects of the change in the tax law and resulted in a decrease in income tax expense of $1.6 million. Net earnings: Net earnings were $55.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2018, an increase of 9.0% or $4.6 million as compared to $50.6 million in the prior fiscal year. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share were $4.00 and $3.95, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2018. Basic and fully diluted earnings per common share were $3.65 and $3.60, respectively, for the year ended March 31, 2017. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2018 were 13.8 million and 14.0 million, respectively. Weighted average common shares outstanding used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the year ended March 31, 2017 were 13.9 million and 14.0 million, respectively. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Overview Our primary sources of liquidity have historically been cash and cash equivalents, internally generated funds from operations, and borrowings, both non-recourse and recourse. We have used those funds to meet our capital requirements, which have historically consisted primarily of working capital for operational needs, capital expenditures, purchases of equipment for lease, payments of principal and interest on indebtedness outstanding, acquisitions and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. Our subsidiary e Plus Technology, inc., part of our technology segment, finances its operations with funds generated from operations, and with a credit facility with Wells Fargo Commercial Distribution Finance, LLC or (WFCDF). e Plus Technology, inc.s agreement with WFCDF has an aggregate credit limit of $250 million. On July 27, 2017, we executed an amendment to the WFCDF credit facility that temporarily increases the aggregate limit of the two components from $250.0 million to $325.0 million from the date of the agreement through October 31, 2017, and provides us an election beginning July 1 in each subsequent year to similarly temporarily increase the aggregate limit of the two components to $325.0 million ending the earlier of 90 days following the date of election or October 31 of that same year. 45 Table of Contents There are two components of this facility: (1) a floor plan component; and (2) an accounts receivable component. After a customer places a purchase order with us and we have completed our credit review, we place an order for the equipment with one of our vendors. Generally, most purchase orders from us to our vendors are first financed under the floor plan component and reflected in accounts payablefloor plan in our consolidated balance sheets. Payments on the floor plan component are due on three specified dates each month, generally 30-60 days from the invoice date. On the due date of the invoices financed by the floor plan component, the invoices are paid by the accounts receivable component of the credit facility. The balance of the accounts receivable component is then reduced by payments from our available cash. The outstanding balance under the accounts receivable component is recorded as recourse notes payable on our consolidated balance sheets. There was no outstanding balance at March 31, 2019 or March 31, 2018, while the maximum credit limit was $50 million and $30.0 million for March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The borrowings and repayments under the floor plan component are reflected as net borrowings on floor plan facility in the cash flows from financing activities section of our consolidated statements of cash flows. Most customer payments in our technology segment are remitted to our lockboxes. Once payments are cleared, the monies in the lockbox accounts are automatically transferred to our operating account on a daily basis. On the due dates of the floor plan component, we make cash payments to WFCDF. These payments from the accounts receivable component to the floor plan component and repayments from our cash are reflected as net borrowings on floor plan facility in the cash flows from financing activities section of our consolidated statements of cash flows. We engage in this payment structure to minimize our interest expense and bank fees in connection with financing the operations of our technology segment. We believe that cash on hand, and funds generated from operations, together with available credit under our credit facility, will be sufficient to finance our working capital, capital expenditures and other requirements for at least the next twelve calendar months. Our ability to continue to fund our planned growth, both internally and externally, is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or to obtain additional funds through equity or debt financing, or from other sources of financing, as may be required. While at this time we do not anticipate requiring any additional sources of financing to fund operations, if demand for IT products declines, our cash flows from operations may be substantially affected. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our sources and uses of cash over the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended March 31, 2019 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 39,411 $ 82,766 $ 33,016 Net cash used in investing activities (96,205 ) (57,677 ) (26,345 ) Net cash provided by (used) in financing activities 18,456 (16,765 ) 7,814 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (44 ) 114 509 Net Decrease in Cash and Cash Equivalents $ (38,382 ) $ 8,438 $ 14,994 Cash flows from operating activities . Cash provided by operating activities totaled $39.4 million in the year ended March 31, 2019. Net earnings adjusted for the impact of non-cash items was $81.3 million. Net changes in assets and liabilities resulted in a decrease to cash of $41.9 million, primarily due to cash used for accounts receivable of $34.3 million inventories of $10.9 million, financing receivables of $7.9 million, and salaries and commissions payable, deferred revenue and other liabilities $6.6 million, which were partially offset by a decrease accounts payable of $12.4 million, and in deferred costs, other intangibles, and other assets of $5.4 million. The reduction in inventory is due to committed customer orders from the prior year invoiced in the current fiscal year. 46 Table of Contents Cash provided by operating activities totaled $82.8 million in the year ended March 31, 2018. Net earnings adjusted for the impact of non-cash items was $60.8 million. Net changes in assets and liabilities resulted in an increase to cash of $21.9 million, primarily due to cash provided from inventories of $55.0 million, accounts receivable of $6.6 million, and accounts payable of $0.3 million which were partially offset by an increase in deferred costs, other intangibles, and other assets of $19.5 million, financing receivables of $8.5 million, and salaries and commissions payable, deferred revenue and other liabilities $11.9 million. The large reduction in inventory is due to committed customer orders from the prior year invoiced in the current fiscal year. Offsetting the inventory reduction was a decrease in deferred revenues of $34.0 million which were payments received in advance of delivering this committed inventory. The change in financing receivables included within cash flows from operations consists of assets financed by our financing segment that were purchased through our technology segment. Cash provided by operating activities totaled $33.0 million in the year ended March 31, 2017. Net earnings adjusted for the impact of non-cash items was $54.4 million. Net changes in assets and liabilities resulted in a decrease to cash of $21.4 million, primarily due to cash used for inventories of $60.0 million, accounts receivable of $17.2 million, and financing receivables of $5.8 million, which were partially offset by an increase in salaries and commissions payable, deferred revenue and other liabilities $59.0 million, and an increase in accounts payable of $3.8 million. The large increase in inventory is due to committed customer orders, which are offset by an increase in deferred revenues of $47.0 million, which includes payments received in advance of delivering this committed inventory. The change in financing receivables included within cash flows from operations consists of assets financed by our financing segment that were purchased through our technology segment. To manage our working capital, we monitor our cash conversion cycle for our Technology segment, which is defined as days sales outstanding (DSO) in accounts receivable plus days of supply in inventory (DIO) minus days of purchases outstanding in accounts payable (DPO). The following table presents the components of the cash conversion cycle for our Technology segment: As of March 31, 2019 2018 2017 (DSO) Days sales outstanding (1) 59 54 59 (DIO) Days inventory outstanding (2) 12 12 24 (DPO) Days payable outstanding (3) (44 ) (43 ) (45 ) Cash conversion cycle 27 23 38 (1) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of trade accounts receivable-trade, net for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Adjusted gross billings for the same three-month period. (2) Represents the rolling three-month average of the balance of inventory, net for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Cost of adjusted gross billings for the same three-month period. (3) Represents the rolling three-month average of the combined balance of accounts payable-trade and accounts payable-floor plan for our Technology segment at the end of the period divided by Cost of adjusted gross billings, product and services for the same three-month period. Our standard payment term for customers is between 30-60 days; however, certain customers or orders may be approved for extended payment terms. Invoices processed through our credit facility, or the A/P-floor plan balance, are typically paid within 45-60 days from the invoice date, while A/P trade invoices are typically paid within 30 days from the invoice date. Our cash conversion cycle increased to 27 days at March 31, 2019, compared to 23 days at March 31, 2018, primarily driven by an increase in DSO of 5 days, as a result of the average accounts receivable trade balance increasing 17.4% over the prior years fourth quarter and Adjusted gross billings increasing 6.8% for the same period. The remaining change in our DSO was due to timing of collections. Our cash conversion cycle decreased to 23 days at March 31, 2018, compared to 38 days at March 31, 2017, primarily driven by a decrease in DIO of 12 days. Our DIO as of March 31, 2018 was primarily impacted by a decrease in average inventory balances of 57.4%, or $53.7 million, over the prior year primarily due to a large project for one of our major customers. Our DSO decreased by 5 days as a result of the average accounts receivable trade balance decreasing 11.7% over the prior years fourth quarter and Adjusted gross billings decreasing 3.6% for the same period. The remaining change in our DSO was due to timing of collections. 47 Table of Contents Cash flows related to investing activities . Cash used in investing activities was $96.2 million during the year ended March 31, 2019, which included cash used in acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $49.8 million, net issuance of financing receivables of $101.4 million purchases of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment, and assets to be leased or financed of $22.0 million, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of financing receivables of $73.4 million and the sale of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment of $3.6 million. The net issuance of financing receivables included within cash flows from investing activities consists of assets financed by our financing segment that were purchased from third-party vendors. Cash used in investing activities was $57.7 million during the year ended March 31, 2018, which included cash used in acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $37.7 million, purchases of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment, and assets to be leased of $14.0 million and, and net issuance of financing receivables of $20.4 million, partially offset primarily by proceeds from sale of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment of $14.4 million. The net issuance of financing receivables included within cash flows from investing activities consists of assets financed by our financing segment that were purchased from third-party vendors. Cash used in investing activities was $26.4 million during the year ended March 31, 2017, which included purchases of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment, and assets to be leased of $19.4 million and cash used in acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $9.1 million, and net issuance of financing receivables of $5.1 million, partially offset primarily by proceeds from sale of property, equipment, and operating lease equipment of $7.3 million. The net issuance of financing receivables included within cash flows from investing activities consists of assets financed by our financing segment that were purchased from third-party vendors. Cash flows from financing activities . Cash provided by in financing activities was $18.5 million for the year ended March 31, 2019, driven by net borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable of $40.9 million, and net borrowings on our floor plan facility of $4.0, partially offset by repurchases of common stock of $18.8 million, million, and by payments to settle financing of acquisitions of $7.6 million. Cash used in financing activities was $16.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2018, driven by repurchases of common stock of $35.2 million, net repayments on our floor plan facility of $20.5 million, and by payments to settle financing of acquisitions of $2.1 million, partially offset by net borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable of $41.1 million. Cash provided by financing activities was $7.8 million for the year ended March 31, 2017, driven by net borrowings of non-recourse and recourse notes payable of $33.3 million and net borrowing on our floor plan facility of $6.2 million, partially offset by repurchases of common stock of $30.5 million. Non-Cash Activities We assign contractual payments due under lease and financing agreements to third-party financial institutions, which are accounted for as non-recourse notes payable. As a condition to the assignment agreement, certain financial institutions may request that the customer remit their contractual payments to a trust; rather than to us, and the trust pays the financial institution. Alternatively, if the structure of the agreement does not require a trustee, the customer will continue to make payments to us, and we will remit the payment to the financial institution. The economic impact to us under either assignment structure is similar, in that the assigned contractual payments are paid by the customer and remitted to the lender to pay down the corresponding non-recourse notes payable. However, these assignment structures are classified differently within our consolidated statements of cash flows. More specifically, we are required to exclude non-cash transactions from our consolidated statement of cash flows, so certain contractual payments made by the customer to the trust are excluded from our operating cash receipts and the corresponding repayment of the non-recourse notes payable from the trust to the third-party financial institution are excluded from our cash flows from financing activities. Contractual payments received by the trust and paid to the lender on our behalf are disclosed as a non-cash financing activity. Liquidity and Capital Resources We may utilize non-recourse notes payable to finance approximately 80% to 100% of the purchase price of the assets being leased or financed by our customers. Any balance of the purchase price remaining after non-recourse funding and any upfront payments received from the customer (our equity investment in the equipment) must generally be financed by cash flows from our operations, the sale of the equipment leased to third-parties, or other internal means. Although we expect that the credit quality of our financing arrangements and our residual return history will continue to allow us to obtain such financing, such financing may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. 48 Table of Contents The financing necessary to support our lease and financing activities has been provided by our cash and non-recourse borrowings. We monitor our exposure closely. Historically, we have obtained mostly non-recourse borrowings from third-party banks and finance companies. We continue to be able to obtain financing through our traditional lending sources. Non-recourse financings are loans whose repayment is the responsibility of a specific customer, although we may make representations and warranties to the lender regarding the specific contract or have ongoing loan servicing obligations. Under a non-recourse loan, we borrow from a lender an amount based on the present value of the contractually committed lease payments under the lease at a fixed rate of interest, and the lender secures a lien on the financed assets. When the lender is fully repaid from the lease payments, the lien is released, and all further rental or sale proceeds are ours. We are not liable for the repayment of non-recourse loans unless we breach our representations and warranties in the loan agreements. The lender assumes the credit risk of each lease, and the lenders only recourse, upon default by the lessee, is against the lessee and the specific equipment under lease. At March 31, 2019, our non-recourse notes payables decreased 4.5% to $48.6 million, as compared to $50.9 million at March 31, 2018. We had recourse notes payable of $28 thousand as of March 31, 2019, compared to $1.3 million as of March 31, 2018. Whenever desirable, we arrange for equity investment financing, which includes selling lease payments, including the residual portions, to third-parties and financing the equity investment on a non-recourse basis. We generally retain customer control and operational services and have minimal residual risk. We usually reserve the right to share in remarketing proceeds of the equipment on a subordinated basis after the investor has received an agreed-to return on its investment. Credit Facility Technology Our subsidiaries, e Plus Technology, inc., and certain of its subsidiaries, have a financing facility from WFCDF to finance their working capital requirements for inventories and accounts receivable. There are two components of this facility: (1) a floor plan component and (2) an accounts receivable component. This facility has full recourse to e Plus Technology, inc., and certain of its subsidiaries and is secured by a blanket lien against all their assets, such as chattel paper, receivables and inventory. As of March 31, 2019, the facility had an aggregate limit of the two components of $250.0 million with an accounts receivable sub-limit component that increased from $30.0 million to $50 million on January 15, 2019 through an amendment to the WFCDF credit facility. On July 27, 2017, we executed an amendment to the WFCDF credit facility that temporarily increased the aggregate limit of the two components from $250.0 million to $325.0 million from the date of the agreement through October 31, 2017, that provides us an election beginning July 1 in each subsequent year to similarly temporarily increase the aggregate limit of the two components to $325.0 million ending the earlier of 90 days following the date of election or October 31 of that same year. On July 17, 2018, we elected to temporarily increase the aggregate limit to $325.0 million. Availability under the facility may be limited by the asset value of equipment we purchase or accounts receivable and may be further limited by certain covenants and terms and conditions of the facility. These covenants include but are not limited to a minimum excess availability of the facility and e Plus Technology, inc.s and certain of its subsidiaries minimum earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. We were in compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 2019. Interest on the facility is assessed at a rate of the One Month LIBOR plus two and one-half percent if the payments are not made on the three specified dates each month. The facility also requires that financial statements of e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries be provided within 45 days of the end of each quarter and 90 days of each fiscal year end, and that other operational reports be provided on a regular basis. Either party may terminate the credit facility with 90 days advance written notice. We are not, and do not believe that we are reasonably likely to be, in breach of the WFCDF credit facility. In addition, we do not believe that the covenants of the WFCDF credit facility materially limit our ability to undertake financing. In this regard, the covenants apply only to our subsidiary, e Plus Technology, inc. This credit facility is secured by the assets of only e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and the guaranty as described below. The WFCDF credit facility requires a guaranty of $10.5 million by e Plus inc. The guaranty requires e Plus inc. to deliver its annual audited financial statements by a certain date. We have delivered the annual audited financial statements for the year ended March 31, 2018, as required. The loss of the WFCDF credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our future results as we currently rely on this facility and its components for daily working capital and liquidity for our technology segment, and as an operational function of our accounts payable process. 49 Table of Contents Floor Plan Component Purchases including computer technology products, software, maintenance and services by e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries are in part financed through a floor plan component in which interest expense for the first thirty to sixty days, in general, is not charged. The floor plan liabilities are recorded as accounts payablefloor plan on our consolidated balance sheets, as they are normally repaid within the fifteen to sixty-day time frame and represent assigned accounts payable originally generated with the manufacturer/distributor. In some cases, we can pay invoices early and receive a discount, but if the fifteen to sixty-day obligation is not paid timely, interest is then assessed at stated contractual rates. The respective floor plan component credit limits and actual outstanding balance payables for the dates indicated were as follows (in thousands): Maximum Credit Limit at March 31, 2019 Balance as of March 31, 2019 Maximum Credit Limit at March 31, 2018 Balance as of March 31, 2018 $ 250,000 $ 116,083 $ 250,000 $ 112,109 Accounts Receivable Component e Plus Technology, inc. and certain of its subsidiaries have an accounts receivable component included within the WFCDF credit facility, which has a revolving line of credit. On the due date of the invoices financed by the floor plan component, the invoices are paid by the accounts receivable component of the credit facility. The balance of the accounts receivable component is then reduced by payments from our available cash. The outstanding balance under the accounts receivable component is recorded as recourse notes payable on our consolidated balance sheets. There was no balance outstanding for the accounts receivable component at March 31, 2019 and 2018, while the maximum credit limit was $30.0 million for both periods. Performance Guarantees In the normal course of business, we may provide certain customers with performance guarantees, which are generally backed by surety bonds. In general, we would only be liable for these guarantees in the event of default in the performance of our obligations. We are in compliance with the performance obligations under all service contracts for which there is a performance guarantee, and we believe that any liability incurred in connection with these guarantees would not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statements of operations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we do not participate in transactions that generate relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As of March 31, 2019, and 2018, we were not involved in any unconsolidated special purpose entity transactions. Adequacy of Capital Resources The continued implementation of our business strategy will require a significant investment in both resources and managerial focus. In addition, we may selectively acquire other companies that have attractive customer relationships and skilled sales forces. We may also start offices in new geographic areas, which may require a significant investment of cash. We may also acquire technology companies to expand and enhance the platform of bundled solutions to provide additional functionality and value-added services. As a result, we may require additional financing to fund our strategy, implementation and potential future acquisitions, which may include additional debt and equity financing. Inflation For the periods presented herein, inflation has been relatively low, and we believe that inflation has not had a material effect on our results of operations. 50 Table of Contents Potential Fluctuations in Quarterly Operating Results Our future quarterly operating results and the market price of our common stock may fluctuate. In the event our revenues or earnings for any quarter are less than the level expected by securities analysts or the market in general, such shortfall could have an immediate and significant adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. Any such adverse impact could be greater if any such shortfall occurs near the time of any material decrease in any widely followed stock index or in the market price of the stock of one or more public equipment leasing and financing companies, IT resellers, software competitors, major customers or vendors of ours. Our quarterly results of operations are susceptible to fluctuations for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to currency fluctuations, reduction in IT spending, any reduction of expected residual values related to the equipment under our leases, the timing and mix of specific transactions, the reduction of manufacturer incentive programs, pricing discounts offered by manufacturers at their year ends, and other factors. Quarterly operating results could also fluctuate as a result of our sale of equipment in our lease portfolio at the expiration of a lease term or prior to such expiration, to a lessee or to a third-party and the transfer of financial assets. Sales of equipment and transfers of financial assets may have the effect of increasing revenues and net income during the quarter in which the sale occurs and reducing revenues and net income otherwise expected in subsequent quarters. See Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors herein. We believe that comparisons of quarterly results of our operations are not necessarily meaningful and that results for one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Contractual Obligations The impact that our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2019 are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods is as follows (in thousands): Payments Due by Period Total 1 year Years 2 & 3 Years 4 & 5 More than 5 years Recourse & non-recourse notes payable (1) $ 48,647 $ 38,146 $ 9,193 $ 1,308 $ - Interest payments on recourse and non-recourse notes payable 1,133 678 380 75 - Operating lease obligations 13,601 4,530 6,753 2,318 - Total $ 63,381 $ 43,354 $ 16,326 $ 3,701 $ - (1) Payments reflected principal amounts related to the recourse and non-recourse notes payable.