Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 51 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 75 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 77 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 77 9A. Controls and Procedures 77 9B. Other Information 78 9C. Disclosure Re garding Foreign Jurisdictions that Prevent Inspections 78 PART III 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 78 11. Executive Compensation 78 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 79 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 79 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 79 PART IV 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 80 16. Form 10-K Summary 87 Signatures 88 Index to Exhibits 90 2 Table of Contents PART I Forward-Looking Statements The words "Equinix", "we", "our", "ours", "us" and the "Company" refer to Equinix, Inc. All statements in this discussion that are not historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements regarding Equinix's "expectations", "beliefs", "intentions", "strategies", "forecasts", "predictions", "plans" or the like. Such statements are based on management's current expectations and are subject to a number of factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Equinix cautions investors that there can be no assurance that actual results or business conditions will not differ materially from those projected or suggested in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equinix expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in Equinix's expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions, or circumstances on which any such statements are based. Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky, any one of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or business. These risks include, but are not limited to, those listed below. This list is not complete, and should be read together with the section titled Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other filings that we make with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Risks Related to Our Business and Our Operations The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We experienced an information technology security breach in the past and may be vulnerable to future security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Terrorist activity, or other acts of violence, including violence stemming from the current climate of political and economic uncertainty, could adversely impact our business. Our offerings have a long sales cycle that may harm our revenue and results of operations. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or negative impact on our ability to meet our obligations to our customers or damage to customer infrastructure within our IBX data centers, could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial condition. We are currently making significant investments in our back-office information technology systems and processes. Difficulties from or disruptions to these efforts may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The level of insurance coverage that we purchase may prove to be inadequate. The use of high power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our older IBX data centers. If we are unable to implement our evolving organizational structure or if we are unable to recruit or retain key executives and qualified personnel, our business could be harmed. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and provide new offerings or enhancements to existing offerings that meet customer requirements and differentiate us from our competitors, our results of operations could suffer. Our results of operations may fluctuate. Our days sales outstanding ("DSO") may be negatively impacted by process and system upgrades and acquisitions. 3 Table of Contents We may incur goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, or impairment charges to our property, plant and equipment, which could result in a significant reduction to our earnings. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future. The failure to obtain favorable terms when we renew our IBX data center leases, or the failure to renew such leases, could harm our business and results of operations. We depend on a number of third parties to provide internet connectivity to our IBX data centers; if connectivity is interrupted or terminated, our results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. We have government customers, which subjects us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. Because we depend on the development and growth of a balanced customer base, including key magnet customers, failure to attract, grow and retain this base of customers could harm our business and results of operations. Industry consolidation may have a negative impact on our business model. Our business could be harmed by increased costs to procure power, prolonged power outages, shortages or capacity constraints. Risks Related to Our Expansion Plans Our construction of new IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions could involve significant risks to our business. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial or strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. The anticipated benefits of our joint ventures may not be fully realized or take longer to realize than expected. Joint venture investments could expose us to risks and liabilities in connection with the formation of the new joint ventures, the operation of such joint ventures without sole decision-making authority, and our reliance on joint venture partners who may have economic and business interests that are inconsistent with our business interests. If we cannot effectively manage our international operations, and successfully implement our international expansion plans, or comply with evolving laws and regulations, our revenues may not increase, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. We are continuing to invest in our expansion efforts but may not have sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. Risks Related to Our Capital Needs and Capital Strategy Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flows and limit our flexibility to raise additional capital. Sales or issuances of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are not able to generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, our ability to fund incremental expansion plans may be limited. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate internationally could harm our results of operations. Our derivative transactions expose us to counterparty credit risk. Risks Related to Environmental Laws and Climate Change Impacts Environmental regulations may impose upon us new or unexpected costs. Our business may be adversely affected by climate change and responses to it. We may fail to achieve our environmental goals which may adversely affect public perception of our business and affect our relationship with our customers and our stockholders. 4 Table of Contents Risks Related to Certain Regulations and Laws, Including Tax Laws Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, regulations, or interpretations thereof, including changes to tax rates, may adversely affect our financial statements and cash taxes. Government regulation or failure to comply with laws and regulations may adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Our Taxation as a REIT We have a number of risks related to our qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes ("REIT"), including the risk that we may not be able to maintain our qualification as a REIT which could expose us to substantial corporate income tax and have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. ITEM 1. Business Overview: Powering the Worlds Digital Leaders Equinix is the world's digital infrastructure company TM . Digital leaders harness our trusted platform to bring together and interconnect the foundational infrastructure that powers their success. We enable our customers to access all the right places, partners and possibilities they need to accelerate their advantage. Platform Equinix combines a global footprint of International Business Exchange ("IBX ") data centers in the Americas ("AMER"), Asia-Pacific ("APAC"), and Europe, the Middle East and Africa ("EMEA") regions, interconnection solutions, edge services, unique business and digital ecosystems and expert consulting and support. Equinix was incorporated on June 22, 1998 as a Delaware corporation and operates as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Al Avery and Jay Adelson founded Equinix as a vendor-neutral multi-tenant data center ("MTDC") provider where competing networks could connect and share data traffic to help scale the rapid growth of the early internet. The companys name, Equinix (composed from the words "equality", "neutrality" and "internet exchange"), reflects that vision. The founders also believed they not only had the opportunity but also the responsibility to create a company that would be the steward of some of the most important digital infrastructure assets in the world. Two decades later, we have expanded upon that vision to build Platform Equinix, with unmatched scale and reach. Our interconnected data centers around the world allow our customers to bring together and interconnect the infrastructure they need to fast-track their digital advantage. With Equinix, they can scale with agility, speed the launch of digital services, deliver world-class experiences and multiply their value. We enable them to differentiate by distributing infrastructure and removing the distance between clouds, users and applications in order to reduce latency and deliver a superior customer, partner and employee experience. The Equinix global platform, and the quality of our IBX data centers, interconnection offerings and edge services, have enabled us to establish a critical mass of customers. As more customers choose Platform Equinix for bandwidth cost and performance reasons, it benefits their suppliers and business partners to colocate in the same data centers and connect directly with each other. This adjacency creates a network effect that attracts new customers, continuously compounds our existing customers' value and enables them to capture further economic and performance benefits from our offerings. 5 Table of Contents In 2021, we opened nine new IBX data centers, opened six new xScale TM data centers via our joint ventures, and entered three new markets resulting in an increase in our total number of IBX and xScale data center facilities to 240, which includes the MU4 and GN1 data centers which opened in January 2022. 2021 highlights include: New data center openings included nine new IBX sites in the following metros: Bordeaux, Frankfurt, Genoa, Milan, Munich, Osaka, Perth, Silicon Valley and Singapore, with Bordeaux and Genoa being new market entries. Six additional xScale sites opened in 2021 in Frankfurt, London, Osaka, Paris, Sao Paulo and Tokyo, bringing the total number of xScale data centers to eight. xScale data centers serve the needs of the growing hyperscale data center market, including the world's largest cloud service providers, and are engineered to meet the technical and operational requirements and price points of core hyperscale workload deployments. xScale data centers also offer access to our comprehensive suite of interconnection and edge services that tie into the hyperscale companies' existing access points at Equinix, thereby increasing the speed of connectivity to their existing and future enterprise customers. In xScale sites, hyperscale companies can consolidate core and access point deployments into one global provider to streamline and simplify their growth. In December, we announced our expansion into Africa through the planned acquisition of MainOne, a leading West African data center and connectivity solutions provider, with presence in Nigeria, Ghana and Cte d'Ivoire. The transaction has an enterprise value of $320 million and marks the first step in Equinix's long-term strategy to become a leading African carrier neutral digital infrastructure company. The acquisition is expected to close in Q2 of 2022, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions including the requisite regulatory approvals. In September, we announced that we extended Platform Equinix into the strategic Indian market, following the completion of the acquisition of the India operations of GPX Global Systems, Inc. ("GPX India"). The $170.5 million transaction includes a fiber-connected campus in Mumbai with two data centers. The expansion into India is intended to unlock opportunities for Indian businesses expanding internationally and for multinational corporations pursuing growth and innovation in the Indian market. In June, we entered into an agreement to form another joint venture in the form of a limited liability partnership with GIC, Singapores sovereign wealth fund, to develop and operate additional xScale TM data centers in Europe and the Americas (the EMEA 2 Joint Venture). In October, we also entered into an agreement to form a joint venture in the form of a limited liability partnership with PGIM Real Estate ("PGIM"), to develop and operate xScale data centers in Asia-Pacific (the "Asia-Pacific 2 Joint Venture"). Combined with our existing xScale joint ventures in Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Americas, these joint ventures will bring our global xScale data center portfolio to more than $7.5 billion across 34 facilities when completed and fully constructed. In June, we opened our first data center in Bordeaux, France ("BX1"). With direct fiber links to Equinix's International Business Exchange (IBX ) sites in Paris, this new facility will provide global businesses and local authorities located in the region with the ability to connect directly and securely to the world's digital economy, via comprehensive digital ecosystems. Increasing connectivity opportunities further, BX1 will provide a landing hub for the new submarine cable, AMITIE, which will link France to the United States and Great Britain, creating a new European gateway for data traffic between the United States and Europe. 6 Table of Contents In March, we announced that Equinix Metal had significantly advanced its global scale, features and ability to enable as a service consumption of the full value of Platform Equinix . With these new and enhanced capabilities, Equinix Metal customers can consume interconnected infrastructure with the control of physical hardware and the low overhead and developer experience of the cloud, helping them move faster in today's competitive environment. This announcement also included the expanded availability of Equinix Metal in 18 global metros, the addition of new networking features to support hybrid multicloud architectures, the certification of new software integrations on Equinix Metal and the launch of a managed appliance as a service solution. Industry Trends: Large-scale global trends are driving a digital-first strategy Digital transformation is changing where and how businesses deploy and deliver IT services to employees and is creating new digital business models for partners and customers. The convergence of these global trends and the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic have created additional pressure for many companies to transform. The collective influence of these trends is driving complexity and risk that must be addressed in multiple locations for companies to effectively compete in the global digital economy. These trends include: The Digital services trend is the continued digitizing of the back office to support digital business throughput. By 2022, 65% of global GDP will be digitalized, and most organizations will realize greater value by combining digitization and sustainability. This trend forces the need for a digital infrastructure optimized for proximity to, and interconnection with, networks and clouds. This in turn enables digital development with elastic scale and has contributed to a 3x increase in the multicloud, multiregion adoption rate over the last two years as businesses scale the digital core. The Digital participation trend is digitizing trade and accessing digital marketplaces (digital B2B commerce). By 2025, 75% of organization leaders will leverage digital platforms and ecosystem capabilities to adapt their value chains to new markets, industries and ecosystems. This forces the need for organizations to interconnect digital infrastructure with research communities, supply chains and marketplaces, which enables composable business models. The fifth annual Global Interconnection Index ("GXI"), a market study published by Equinix, shows that SaaS is now the largest IT spend line item as companies move to public and private SaaS alternatives. Organizations that fail to leverage cloud, SaaS or partner digital ecosystems have shown two to three times slower growth over the past two years. The Digital proximity trend means digitizing the front office for localized and personalized deliveryto customers, employees and operations where business happens, as well as digitizing the physical world for the physical infrastructure and operations intelligence needed to optimize commercial and environmental impact. Data shows that shifts in population and commerce centers will result in over 50% of new infrastructure being local by 2023, which will require a digital infrastructure in proximity to, and interconnecting, experiences, things (IoT) and intelligent operations. These trends are accelerating the need for companies like Equinix who can provide a secure, agile global business platform that leverages digital interconnectionor private data exchangeto deliver real-time interactions around the world. As part of their digital transformation, businesses in most industries are shifting their centralized IT infrastructures to the edge to bring digital services closer to users for better performance, which has become a significant driver of digital business value. To realize the full potential of the edge, IT organizations require greater interconnection bandwidth. Interconnection bandwidth is defined as the total capacity provisioned to privately and directly exchange traffic, with a diverse set of partners and providers, at distributed IT exchange points inside carrier-neutral colocation data centers. Private interconnection capacity between businesses, as reported in the GXI, is anticipated to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 44% by 2024, reaching 21,485+ terabits per second of data exchanged annually. 7 Table of Contents Worldwide Interconnection Bandwidth Capacity Growth (2020 - 2024) in Terabits per Second (Tbps) Source: GXI Volume 5 Equinix Business Proposition: To be the platform where the world comes together, enabling the innovations that enrich our work, life and planet In 2021, we continued to build new data center, interconnection and edge services capabilities to further our vision to power the worlds digital leaders. On Platform Equinix, digital leaders can reach the most strategic global markets with the largest ecosystem of digital partners, with infrastructure that assembles and deploys virtually in minutes. We offer a comprehensive, integrated suite of data center, interconnection, edge services and products to over 10,000 enterprise and service provider customers worldwide. The following are the leading revenue generating product and other offerings that collectively make up Platform Equinix: Data Center Solutions Our global, state-of-the-art data centers meet strict standards of security, reliability, certification and sustainability. Offerings in these data centers are typically billed based on the space and power a customer consumes, are delivered under a fixed duration contract and generate monthly recurring revenue ("MRR"). International Business Exchange TM Data Centers consist of more than 230 IBX vendor-neutral colocation data centers worldwide, providing our customers with secure, reliable and robust environments (including space and power) that are necessary to aggregate and distribute information and connect digital and business ecosystems globally. IBX data centers provide access to vital ecosystems where enterprises, network, cloud and SaaS providers, and business partners, directly and securely interconnect to each other. xScale TM Data Centers are designed to serve the unique core workload deployment needs of a targeted group of hyperscale companies, which include the world's largest cloud service providers. With xScale data 8 Table of Contents centers, hyperscale customers add to their core hyperscale data center deployments and existing customer access points at Equinix, allowing streamlined expansion with a single global vendor. IBX SmartView is a fully integrated monitoring software which provides customers visibility into the operating data relevant to their specific Equinix footprint as if they were in-house. The software provides online access to real-time environmental and operating data through the Equinix Customer Portal or API integrations. With real-time alerts and configurable reporting, IBX SmartView allows customers to maintain their IBX operations and plan for future growth. Interconnection Solutions Our interconnection solutions connect businesses directly, securely and dynamically within and between our data centers across our global platform. Our interconnection solutions are typically billed based on the outbound connections from a customer and generate MRR. Equinix Fabric provides secure, on-demand, software-defined interconnection. Built specifically for digital infrastructure, Equinix Fabric enables businesses to connect globally to their choice of thousands of networking, storage, compute and application service providers in the industrys largest infrastructure ecosystem. As the foundation of Platform Equinixs interconnection capability, Equinix Fabric enables customers to quickly and easily connect their physical and virtual digital infrastructures. Cross Connects provide a point-to-point cable link between two Equinix customers in the same IBX data center. Cross Connects deliver fast, convenient, affordable and highly reliable connectivity and data exchange with business partners and service providers within the Equinix ecosystem. Equinix Internet Exchange enables networks, content providers and large enterprises to exchange internet traffic through the largest global peering solution. Service providers can aggregate traffic to multiple counterparties, called peers, on one physical port and handle multiple small peers while moving high-traffic peers to private interconnections. This reduces latency for end-users when accessing content and applications. Equinix Connect is an agile, scalable, resilient and high performing internet access solution. With at least two upstream ISPs in each market, Equinix Connect offers the resiliency that organizations demand and direct connections to major content destinations, resulting in superior performance. It provides the convenience of a one-stop shop and the flexibility required to connect to the internet as a primary or secondary access solution. Available globally in more than 40 markets, Equinix Connect allows businesses to grow as their needs grow with scalable bandwidth options to meet their emerging usage requirements. Fiber Connect provides dark fiber links between customers and partners in multiple Equinix IBX data centers. Fiber Connect enables fast, convenient and affordable integration with partners, customers and service providers across the global Equinix digital ecosystem. It supports highly reliable, extremely low-latency communication, system integration and data exchange. Edge Services Our edge services help businesses rapidly deploy as-a-service networking, security and hardware across our global data center footprint - as an alternative to buying, owning and managing the physical infrastructure. Our edge services are typically billed based on the number of instances and the capacity used by a customer and generate MRR. Network Edge allows customers to modernize networks within minutes, by deploying network functions virtualization ("NFV") from multiple vendors across Equinix metros. Companies can select, deploy and connect virtual network services at the edge quickly, with no additional hardware requirements. Equinix Metal allows enterprises, SaaS companies and digital service providers to provision interconnected bare metal resources in minutes instead of months, while reducing the capital expenditures and operational requirements of owning hardware. They can also reduce cloud costs while retaining the flexibility and operational expenditures of cloud services via on demand, reserved or spot market capacity in Equinixs global data centers using the Equinix Metal portal or DevOps-friendly APIs and integrations. Equinix Precision Time provides secure Precision Time Protocol ("PTP") and Network Time Protocol ("NTP") Time as a service for distributed enterprise applications on Platform Equinix . The service uses redundant and strategically located equipment and the high-performance network backbone of Equinix 9 Table of Contents Fabric to deliver secure, reliable and precise time synchronization. Customers gain access to the product portal, allowing them to provision, manage and monitor their service. Colocation Offerings Equinix offers a variety of colocation offerings designed to speed and streamline digital transformation and data center deployments for its customers. These services are typically billed based on consumption and generate non-recurring revenue ("NRR"). Equinix Smart Hands provides around-the-clock, on-site, operational support service for remote management, installation and troubleshooting of customer data center equipment. Using Equinix IBX data center technicians, Smart Hands allows customers to manage and outsource their business operations and maximize uptime whether from within an IBX data center or from a remote location. Equinix Infrastructure Services (EIS) provides customers with a one-stop shop for data center installation, migration and equipment procurement. With proven practices developed over many years of successfully building, migrating and optimizing our customers data center needs, EIS services lend expertise to address larger, more complex data center jobs including installation and implementation of new builds, planned migrations, structured cabling, labelling and documentation, procurement recommendations and coordination, and secure de-installation. Competition While a large number of enterprises and service providers, such as hyperscale cloud service providers, own their own data centers, we believe the industry is shifting away from single-tenant solutions to outsourcing some or all of their IT housing and interconnection requirements to third party facilities, such as those operated by us. Historically, the outsourcing market was served by large telecommunications carriers who bundled their products and services with their colocation offerings. The data center market landscape has evolved to include private and vendor-neutral MTDC providers, hyperscale cloud providers, managed infrastructure and application hosting providers, and systems integrators. It is estimated that Equinix is one of more than 2,200 companies that provide MTDC offerings around the world. The global MTDC market is highly fragmented. Each of these data center solutions providers can bundle various colocation, interconnection and network offerings and outsourced IT infrastructure solutions. We believe that this outsourcing trend has accelerated and is likely to continue to accelerate in the coming years, especially in light of the movement to digital business as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Equinix is differentiated in this market by being able to offer customers a global platform that reaches 27 countries and contains the industrys largest and most active ecosystem of partners in our sites. This ecosystem creates a network effect which improves performance and lowers cost for our customers and is a significant source of competitive advantage for Equinix. Customers Our customers include telecommunications carriers, mobile and other network services providers, cloud and IT services providers, digital media and content providers, financial services companies, and global enterprise ecosystems in various industries. We provide each company access to a choice of business partners and solutions based on their colocation, interconnection and managed IT service needs, and delivered 99.999% operational uptime across our global data centers in 2021. As of December 31, 2021, we had over 10,000 customers worldwide. No one customer made up 10% or more of our total business revenues for the year ended December 31, 2021. 10 Table of Contents The following companies represent some of our leading customers and partners: We serve our customers with a direct sales force and channel marketing program. We organize our sales force by customer type, as well as by establishing a sales presence in diverse geographic regions, which enables efficient servicing of the customer base from a network of regional offices. We also support our customers with a global customer care organization. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, we had 10,944 employees worldwide with 5,056 based in the Americas, 3,611 based in EMEA and 2,277 based in APAC. Of those employees, 4,693 employees were in engineering and operations, 1,855 employees were in sales and marketing and 4,396 employees were in management, finance and administration. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 74% of our workforce identified as men and approximately 25% identified as women. Women's representation in leadership (VP and above) increased from 28% to 31% year-over-year. At Equinix, we strive to build a culture where every employee, every day, can say Im Safe, I Belong and I Matter and where our workforce, at all levels, reflects and represents the communities in which we operate. Our objective is to continue to make our culture a critical competitive advantage, engaging every leader and every employee in the process. To ensure we are upholding our core corporate values and making progress towards our aspirational goals, we monitor employee satisfaction through a quarterly pulse survey, which is one of our listening mechanisms. In 2021, employee satisfaction scores ranged between 82 - 84 out of a 100 each quarter. We recognize that attracting, developing and retaining talent at all levels is vital to continuing our success and offer industry competitive compensation and benefits, along with development opportunities to help every employee achieve their full potential. The virtual recruiting environment necessitated by the global pandemic has created new opportunities for Equinix to find talent. We have benefited from new talent sourcing programs such as our global new-to-career programs as well as a pathways program to enable career transition for veterans and women returning to the workforce. In 2021, we continued to enhance our portfolio of development programs for our employees and introduced a system-enabled approach to goal setting and development planning to drive objectivity and achievement. We also continued to offer development tools and opportunities to our employees such as online learning, manager training, professional coaching and 360 degree assessments for eligible employees. 11 Table of Contents We are integrating a focus on diversity, inclusion and belonging ("DIB") into every aspect of how we run our business. In 2020, we embarked on a multi-year DIB strategy with governance through a DIB Council chaired by our CEO and CHRO, and in partnership with our Sustainability Program Office, that oversees our progress on environmental, social and governance ("ESG") matters. Our DIB strategy focuses on attracting, retaining and developing a diverse, global workforce; building leadership capability; and empowering our people to bring DIB to life. We are focused on creating multiple pathways to reach new talent from diverse communities. In 2021, we forged partnerships and invested in tools and systems to grow and support our inclusive hiring practices and made updates to our recruitment marketing to reach a wider candidate pool more effectively. We also embedded diversity and inclusive competencies and behaviors in our leadership profiles and added coaching tools as well as manager training on leading inclusive teams to our development program. Our Equinix Employee-led Connection Networks ("EECNs") are integral to our DIB strategy and play an important role in creating belonging and advocating for the needs and goals of communities with common identities, cultures or backgrounds. Each of our nine EECNs represents an identity/community that has faced historical discrimination or shares unique challenges. We recognize that creating the best workplace and culture we can requires a global effort with localized awareness and approaches. Late in 2020, we launched WeAreEquinix employee teams empowered to create, localize and promote purpose, inclusion and belonging for their locations across the world. Through live and virtual events, campaigns, and collaboration with the business, these volunteer leaders bring local opportunities to engage in the following areas: Wellbeing, Green and Sustainability, Community Impact, Fun and Creativity, Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging, and Employee Networks. We currently have WeAreEquinix teams in 15 locations. In 2021, we launched our I Matter initiative to enable employees to voluntarily self-identify by adding their data across dimensions of diversity, including race/ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity, and disability in accordance with country regulations so that we may better understand the global employee experience. Equinix representatives have joined the G100 Talent Consortium Task Force on Racial Inequity in Business to consider core inequity issues, including anti-racism, bias, and hiring and promotability practices, in order to develop tangible best practices that companies can use as guide rails to increase representation and career mobility for black, indigenous and people of color ("BIPOC") employees. In 2021, we hosted a Days of Understanding event as part of an initiative of CEO ACT!ON, a pledge Equinix has taken along with hundreds of other companies to embrace difference in our organizations, educate our people and build more inclusive cultures inside and outside of our workplaces. As part of this partnership, three Equinix employees joined ACT!ONs inaugural two-year fellowship program focused on identifying, developing, and promoting scalable and sustainable policies and corporate best practices that address systemic racism and social injustice to improve societal wellbeing. Equinix also joined the Alliance for Global Inclusion, a coalition of global organizations working together to bring inclusivity and full equity to the workplace. Finally, in 2021 Equinix partnered with McKinsey to provide leadership development to our Black/African American leaders through the Black Leadership Academy. Our Community Impact program promotes connection and belonging, and enables employees to give back, with the support of Equinix, to the communities in which we work and live. In 2021, our employees volunteered at approximately 2,230 nonprofits worldwide. We believe our commitment to the highest standards of honesty, integrity and ethical behavior differentiates our business as much as our technology. We promote these high standards through a number of policies including the Equinix Code of Business Conduct. All employees are required to complete trainings on ethics and the companys anti-bribery and corruption policies. In addition, we maintain a confidential ethics helpline where employees are encouraged to speak up if they have any questions or concerns that our code is being violated. We have a zero-tolerance, non-retaliation policy that protects our employees when they speak up. In a year again disrupted by the unprecedented global pandemic caused by COVID-19, we continued a number of precautionary measures in line with our business continuity and pandemic plans to minimize the risk of operational impacts and to protect the health and safety of employees, customers, partners and our communities. During the pandemic, we have focused on a careful, safe and responsible opening of our offices based on guidance from health experts and other leaders from around the world. As we look forward to the future of work, and more importantly amplifying Equinixs vibrant culture, we are providing flexible, hybrid work opportunities in many roles, enhanced collaboration technologies for everyone, and activity-based workspaces at home or onsite. We recognize that the new normal will require changing behaviors. As such, we are providing learning opportunities and best practices to ensure our meetings, events and work sessions are inclusive and equitable for virtual and in-person participation. Employee well-being has been central to these efforts, driven globally through offerings such as health programs, ergonomic support, technology reimbursements, and wellness days. 12 Table of Contents We believe that all of these programs and initiatives support our human capital goals, align with our company culture, and increase employee satisfaction. Sustainability At Equinix, our Future First sustainability strategy rallies our people and partners to envision a better future and then do what it takes to make it happen. As the worlds digital infrastructure leader, we have the responsibility to harness the power of technology to create a more accessible, equitable and sustainable future. The ESG initiatives comprising our Future First strategy focus on the material issues that have the greatest impact on our stakeholders and our business. We continue to progress on our sustainability goals and look to build a business and world that reflects our purpose to bring the world together on our platform to create the innovations that will enrich our work, life and planet. We document our ESG progress in our Annual Report as well as in the annual Corporate Sustainability Report located on our sustainability website: sustainability.equinix.com. In 2021, we committed to becoming climate neutral across our global operations by 2030 and set a validated science-based target (SBT) for emissions reduction across our global operations and supply chain. Our climate commitments are a critical step to ensure that we continue to advance investments and innovations to reduce greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions and keep global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius in alignment with the Paris Climate Agreement. As a part of our Future First sustainability strategy, we published an Environmental Sustainability and Global Climate Change Policy in 2021 to detail our approach and practices related to the environment, climate change, resource efficiency and reporting. In alignment with our strategy and policy, we are also evaluating our material climate change risks and opportunities based on the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). We are continuing our work to embed climate change risk management into our business where relevant. Environmental Performance Equinix was the first data center company to commit to a long-term goal of 100% renewable energy across our global portfolio. We use local renewable energy sources where possible, seek new or recently built renewable sources and advocate for favorable renewable energy policies. In the U.S., we purchase more than 2.3 million megawatt-hours (MWh) of green power annually from a portfolio of renewable energy projects, including 225 MW of wind power under long-term virtual power purchase agreements (VPPAs) located in Texas and Oklahoma. In 2020, over 90% of our global electricity consumption, and 100% of U.S. electricity consumption, was covered by renewable energy sources. We are committed to transparently measuring and reporting our global carbon footprint across direct (Scope 1), indirect energy (Scope 2) and indirect value chain (Scope 3) emissions. Since 2015, we have achieved a 50% reduction in GHG emissions on an absolute basis (Scope 1 and Scope 2 market-based metric tons of carbon dioxide-equivalent (mtCO2e)), even as the company doubled its footprint in both energy consumption and number of sites. In 2021, CDP, a global non-governmental organization dedicated to helping investors and companies measure and manage their climate risks, recognized our commitments, actions and progress on climate change. 13 Table of Contents We received an 'A-' CDP leadership score for climate action and annual disclosures within the CDP Climate Change survey. We are leveraging technology and innovation to encourage commercialization of solutions that will enable the Data Center of the Future. To support our ongoing sustainability initiatives and commitment to innovation, we issued green bonds totaling $1.4 billion in 2020 and an additional $2.3 billion in 2021. Our Green Finance Framework aligns our sustainability commitments with our long-term financing needs and highlights our pipeline of green projects and data center innovations. In 2021, we allocated $2.9 billion in net proceeds to finance or refinance, in whole or in part, ongoing and new projects in categories of green buildings, renewable energy and energy efficiency. We are committed to advancing environmental progress across other areas of our operations. While energy usage, specifically electricity, is our largest environmental impact, to address the growing importance of water within our operations, we launched a Sustainable Water Management Program in 2021. We consider the consumption of water in the design and operation of our facilities and are developing a coordinated global approach to water measurement and management. Through our efforts to establish the European Climate-Neutral Data Centre Operator Pact in 2021, Equinix and the EU data center industry have also committed to advancing initiatives beyond renewable energy and energy efficiency, including water efficiency, waste reduction, and circular economy principles. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board ("SASB") Disclosures SASB published the Sustainability Accounting Standard ("Standard") for the Real Estate Industry in October 2018. We have aligned our SASB disclosures with the Real Estate Standard to enhance corporate disclosure around ESG performance. In our comprehensive disclosures in our annual Corporate Sustainability Report we also document our progress against metrics as outlined in other frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative ("GRI"), UN Sustainable Development Goals ("SDGs") and TCFD. The following tables detail our energy metrics, aligned with the SASB Real Estate Standard. We intend to expand our reporting around the Real Estate Standard in the coming years. The following metrics represent our colocation facilities performance in the calendar years specified. Energy, renewable energy and GHG emissions are independently assured to ISO 14064-3:2006 Standards for the quantification and reporting of GHG emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3). Calendar year data for 2021 will become available in Q2 2022 and published in our annual Corporate Sustainability Report located on our sustainability website. Energy Management: Energy Consumption Year Energy Consumption Data as a % of Floor Area Total Energy Consumed by Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh) (1) Like-for-Like Change in Energy Consumption of Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh) (2) Grid Electricity Consumption as a % of Energy Consumption Energy Consumption from Renewable Sources (3) (kWh) Renewable Energy as a % of Energy Consumption (4) Like-for-Like Change in Energy Consumption from Renewable Sources of Portfolio Area with Data Coverage (MWh) (2) (3) Renewable Energy as a % of Electricity Consumption 2019 (5)(6) 94.9% 5,711,000 N/A 94.4% 5,168,000 91% N/A 91% 2020 (7)(8) 95.8% 6,432,000 6.2% 93.2% 5,695,000 89% 5.3% 91% (1) The scope of energy includes: energy used onsite (natural gas, diesel, chilled water), energy procured (purchased electricity, electric power from fuel cells under power purchase agreements). (2) Like-for-like computed for stabilized asset list for the overlapping list of sites designated as stabilized in 2019 and 2020. (3) Excludes renewable energy inherently supplied by the standard utility grid mix. Equinix buys renewable energy for the entire electricity consumption of sites including customer and overhead load. The instruments used include: Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) from Virtual Power Purchase Agreements (VPPAs), RECs, International RECs (I-RECs), Guarantees of Origin (GOOs) and Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGOs) from suppliers, green tariffs and bundled contracts. 14 Table of Contents (4) Equinix's global renewable energy percentage reported for RE100 and CDP was 91%, which is comprised of 5,844 GWh of renewables out of 6,427 GWh of electric power consumption. The discrepancy in the totals arises from non-IBX data center sites' energy usage and non-electric power energy consumption (5) 2019 portfolio coverage excludes xScale TM sites: PA8x, LD13x. (6) 2019 portfolio coverage excludes reseller sites: DA99, JK1, OS99, SH1. (7) Recently constructed or acquired sites for which no utility data is available are excluded from the 2020 SASB metrics reporting boundary. These include certain data centers in AMER (DC21) and EMEA (MC1). Reseller sites are also excluded in the energy metrics (OS99, SH1). (8) 2020 portfolio coverage excludes xScale TM sites: LD10x, LD13x, FR11x, SP5x, PA8x. Energy Management: Green Building Ratings Our environmental efforts aim to deliver meaningful and measurable progress against sustainability goals that positively impact our customers, partners, investors and employees. Our data centers are designed with high operational standards and energy efficiency in mind. Our data centers are planned holistically to incorporate the needs of our communities and we aim to minimize the use of all resources in our operations. We evaluate cost-efficient opportunities to enhance energy efficiency and buy renewable energy for existing or acquired sites. We are protecting our planet's resources by pioneering green data center innovations and building and operating energy-efficient data centers around the world. Our Energy Efficiency Center of Excellence is driving a global approach to cooling our existing data centers more efficiently. The program engages customers to manage their implementations more sustainably at our facilities, leading to overall improved site efficiencies. We certify our data centers to numerous green buildings and energy management certifications and schemes. These include USGBC LEED green buildings certifications, ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Standard, ISO 50001:2011 Energy Management Standard, BCA Green Mark, U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers and others. Data centers receiving green building ratings in 2020 and 2021 covered 1.1 million gross sq. ft. While we have additional certifications that are pending final submissions, the following new sites received ratings in 2020 or 2021: Data Center Metro Area Rating Scheme Level Achieved DA11 Dallas, Texas LEED Silver DC15 Washington, DC Green Globes 3 Globes SV11 Silicon Valley, California LEED Silver SG4 Singapore BCA Green Mark GoldPlus SG5 Singapore LEED Pending ML5 Milan, Italy LEED Pending In 2021, we had 16.8 million gross sq. ft., or 71% of our global footprint, in operation with green buildings and energy management certifications. Within the U.S., we had 3.7 million gross sq. ft., or 43% of our footprint, under certification, including 0.3 million of gross sq. ft., or 3% of U.S. footprint, having achieved U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers. We are currently evaluating enrolling additional sites in the Energy Star program. We disclose these and other site-level details about our data centers on our sustainability website. Year Total Gross sq. ft. (million) Area of Eligible Portfolio with Green Building Rating (million sq. ft.) (1) Eligible Portfolio with Green Building Rating (%) Global Total through 2021 23.8 16.8 71% U.S. Total through 2021 8.5 3.7 (LEED and Energy Star) 0.3 (Energy Star) (2) 43% (LEED and Energy Star) 3% (Energy Star) (1) Ratings included in our totals: ISO 50001 Energy Management, ISO 14001 Environmental Management, LEED green buildings certifications, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Energy Star for Data Centers, BCA Green Mark, NABERS and Green Globes. (2) We are currently evaluating our approach to U.S. EPA Energy Star for Data Centers. In 2020, two sites received Energy Star for Data Centers recognition, representing 3% of our U.S. portfolio. In contrast, our U.S. portfolio has 18 LEED-certified data centers or 32% of the U.S. portfolio by gross square footage. 15 Table of Contents Our Business Segment Financial Information We currently operate in three reportable segments comprised of our Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific geographic regions. Information attributable to each of our reportable segments is set forth in Note 17 within the Consolidated Financial Statements. Available Information Equinix owns and maintains intellectual property in the form of trademarks, patents, application programming interfaces, customer portals and a variety of products and other offerings. We were incorporated in Delaware in June 1998. We are required to file reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The SEC maintains an internet website at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. You may also obtain copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to such reports, free of charge by visiting the Investor Relations page on our website, www.equinix.com. These reports are available as soon as reasonably practical after we file them with the SEC. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 16 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this report, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business: Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business and Our Operations The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have continuously monitored our global operations as the COVID-19 pandemic has spread across the globe and as variants and vaccines have developed. We have implemented procedures focusing on the health and safety of our employees, customers, partners and communities, the continuity of our business offerings and compliance with governmental regulations and local public health guidance and ordinances. We have activated our business continuity and pandemic plans and while our business operations have continued without interruption and our IBX data centers have remained fully operational to date, we cannot guarantee our business operations or our IBX data centers will not be negatively impacted in the future. Our IBX data centers have been designated essential businesses or critical infrastructure for purposes of remaining open during the COVID-19 pandemic in all of the jurisdictions that have published these exemptions but not all jurisdictions have created such designations. Any change in these classifications could cause operational disruptions or closures of the affected IBX data centers. We implemented processes to limit and schedule access to certain IBX data centers based on infection rates and case counts as well as implemented social distancing and hygiene protocols. We have continued to track infections and adapt our policies and procedures based on a number of factors including the COVID-19 pandemic severity in each office and IBX location. These proactive actions we have taken or may take in the future and any restrictions imposed by the government could result in business delays, operational disruption and customer dissatisfaction. Employee illnesses resulting from the pandemic could result in further inefficiencies or delays and a suspected or confirmed case in an IBX data center could require temporary closure of the affected IBX data center for cleaning or until local regulatory requirements are fulfilled. Any closure of an IBX data center or limitation of customer access could cause customer dissatisfaction if customers are unable to access their equipment within the IBX data center. We also have service level agreements which could be affected if we are required to close an IBX data center for any reason. Preventative measures instituted by governments and businesses to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including travel restrictions, social distancing requirements, shelter in place orders and quarantines, have negatively impacted the global economy and may adversely impact us, our customers and vendors. Given the uncertainty around the duration and extent of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot accurately predict at this time how the pandemic will affect our business over time. The COVID-19 pandemic has contributed to certain global supply chain disruptions including the supply of certain construction materials and has contributed to overall inflation. While we do not expect the construction delays and supply chain disruptions that we are currently experiencing to have a material effect on us at this time, additional disruptions because of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could occur. Additional or unexpected disruptions could cause construction delays or significantly affect the cost of our planned expansion projects in the future. Significant construction delays and increases in costs because of the supply chain disruptions could interfere with our ability to meet commitments to customers who have contracted for space in new IBX data centers under construction and could have a material impact on our business. While we have received "essential business" permits for construction in some jurisdictions, these classifications may not extend to the construction of new IBX data centers in all of our jurisdictions. We are also reliant on third party construction labor to build and expand our IBX data centers, to which we may not have access due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. We rely on materials, products and manufacturing from regions of the world which are impacted by the pandemic and supply chain disruptions. While we have invested in creating a material inventory to mitigate global increases in raw materials, energy and labor prices, it may not be sufficient and ongoing delays, difficulty finding replacement products and continued high inflation could affect our business and growth. Although currently stayed while being litigated in U.S. courts, U.S. Presidential Executive Order (EO 14042) requires companies that do business with the U.S. Federal government (Government Contractors) to implement a 17 Table of Contents mandate for all their U.S. employees to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (the US Vaccine Mandate). As a Government Contractor, we will be required to comply with the US Vaccine Mandate if it or a similar vaccine mandate for Government Contractors goes into effect. We do not anticipate the US Vaccine Mandate to have a material negative effect on our business even if it goes into effect, but if we experience more employee turnover than we expect or if similar mandates are required in other regions, we could experience disruptions to certain functions and employee satisfaction could be affected. While the full extent and impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic cannot be reasonably estimated at this time, it could have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. The extent to which the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic will impact our financial condition or results of operations will depend on many factors and future developments, including new information about the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its variants, additional surges in infection rates, vaccine efforts and any new government regulations which may emerge to contain the virus, among others. We experienced an information technology security breach in the past and may be vulnerable to future security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business results of operation and financial performance. Despite our efforts to protect against cyber-attacks, we are not fully insulated from these types of security breaches, and such an attack could adversely impact our competitiveness and results of operations. In September 2020, we discovered ransomware on certain of our internal systems, encrypting files and holding them for ransom. Our teams responded quickly to address the incident and notified law enforcement, and after a thorough review of the incident by our management and experts retained to assist in this incident, the investigation was closed as of October 14, 2020. Our IBX data centers and our service offerings, including managed services, remained fully operational during the attack and the incident did not affect our ability to support our customers. We further believe that we were able to contain the incident and that the resolution will prevent the release of any data associated with this attack. While the event has been resolved and has not caused a material disruption to our systems nor resulted in any material costs to us, we are also working to protect against any future attacks. We will continue to face risks associated with unauthorized access to our computer systems, loss or destruction of data, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, distributed denial-of-service attacks or other malicious activities. These threats may result from human error, equipment failure, fraud or malice on the part of employees, vendors or third parties. As techniques used to breach security change frequently and are generally not recognized until launched against a target, we may not be able to promptly detect that a cyber breach has occurred, or implement security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, we may not be able to determine the extent to which these measures could be circumvented. Because of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, many of our non-IBX employees are working from home and could potentially be exposed to new security risks or attempted breaches because of these new work environments. Our adaptation to a hybrid working model that includes both work from home and in an office could continue to expose us to new security risks. A party who is able to compromise the security measures on our networks or the security of our infrastructure could misappropriate either our proprietary information or the personal information of our customers or our employees, or cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations or our customers' operations. As we provide assurances to our customers that we provide a high level of security, such a compromise could be particularly harmful to our brand and reputation. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. Any breaches that may occur in the future could expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, regulatory penalties, loss of existing or potential customers, damage relating to loss of proprietary information, harm to our reputation and increases in our security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial performance and results of operations. We maintain insurance coverage for cyber risks, but such coverage may be unavailable or insufficient to cover our losses. We offer professional services to our customers where we consult on data center solutions and assist with implementations. We also offer managed services in certain of our foreign jurisdictions outside of the U.S. where we manage the data center infrastructure for our customers. The access to our clients' networks and data, which is gained from these services, creates some risk that our clients' networks or data will be improperly accessed. We may also design our clients' cloud storage systems in such a way that exposes our clients to increased risk of data breach. If we were held responsible for any such breach, it could result in a significant loss to us, including damage to our client relationships, harm to our brand and reputation, and legal liability. Terrorist activity, or other acts of violence, including violence stemming from the current climate of political and economic uncertainty, could adversely impact our business. 18 Table of Contents The continued threat of terrorist activity and other acts of war or hostility both domestically and abroad by terrorist organizations, organized crime organizations, or other criminals along with violence stemming from political unrest, contribute to a climate of political and economic uncertainty in many of the regions in which we operate. Due to existing or developing circumstances, we may need to incur additional costs in the future to provide enhanced security, including cyber security and physical security, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. These circumstances may also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and employees, our ability to raise capital and the operation and maintenance of our IBX data centers. Our offerings have a long sales cycle that may harm our revenue and results of operations. A customer's decision to purchase our offerings typically involves a significant commitment of resources. In addition, some customers will be reluctant to commit to locating in our IBX data centers until they are confident that the IBX data center has adequate carrier connections. As a result, we have a long sales cycle. Furthermore, we may devote significant time and resources to pursuing a particular sale or customer that does not result in revenues. Delays due to the length of our sales cycle may materially and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations, which could harm our ability to meet our forecasts and cause volatility in our stock price. Any failure of our physical infrastructure or negative impact on our ability to meet our obligations to our customers, or damage to customer infrastructure within our IBX data centers, could lead to significant costs and disruptions that could reduce our revenue and harm our business reputation and financial results. Our business depends on providing customers with highly reliable solutions. We must safeguard our customers' infrastructure and equipment located in our IBX data centers and ensure our IBX data centers and non-IBX offices remain operational at all times. We own certain of our IBX data centers, but others are leased by us, and we rely on the landlord for basic maintenance of our leased IBX data centers and office buildings. If such landlord has not maintained a leased property sufficiently, we may be forced into an early exit from the center which could be disruptive to our business. Furthermore, we continue to acquire IBX data centers not built by us. If we discover that these buildings and their infrastructure assets are not in the condition we expected when they were acquired, we may be required to incur substantial additional costs to repair or upgrade the IBX data centers. Newly acquired data centers also may not have the same power infrastructure and design in place as our own IBX data centers. These legacy designs could require upgrades in order to meet our standards and our customers expectations. Until the legacy systems are brought up to our standards, customers in these legacy IBX data centers could be exposed to higher risks of unexpected power outages. We have experienced power outages because of these legacy design issues in the past and our customers could experience these in the future. Problems at one or more of our IBX data centers or corporate offices, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions or significant infrastructure or equipment damage. These could result from numerous factors, including but not limited to: human error; equipment failure; physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; fire, earthquake, hurricane, flood, tornado and other natural disasters; extreme temperatures; water damage; fiber cuts; power loss; terrorist acts; sabotage and vandalism; global pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic; inability of our operations employees to access our IBX data centers for any reason; and failure of business partners who provide our resale products. 19 Table of Contents We have service level commitment obligations to certain customers. As a result, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our IBX data centers could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and potential claims related to such failures. Because our IBX data centers are critical to many of our customers' businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage in our IBX data centers could also result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. We cannot guarantee that a court would enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that one of our customers brings a lawsuit against us as a result of a problem at one of our IBX data centers and we may decide to reach settlements with affected customers irrespective of any such contractual limitations. Any such settlement may result in a reduction of revenue under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In addition, any loss of service, equipment damage or inability to meet our service level commitment obligations could reduce the confidence of our customers and could consequently impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenues and our results of operations. Furthermore, we are dependent upon internet service providers, telecommunications carriers and other website operators in the Americas, Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions and elsewhere, some of which have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our customers may in the future experience difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems and offerings. If, for any reason, these providers fail to provide the required services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our IBX data center employees are critical to our ability to maintain our business operations and reach our service level commitments. Although we have redundancies built into our network, if our IBX employees are unable to access our IBX data centers for any reason, we could experience operational issues at the affected site. Pandemics, weather and climate related crises or any other social, political, or economic disruption in the U.S. or abroad could prevent sufficient staffing at our IBX data centers and have a material adverse impact on our operations. We are currently making significant investments in our back-office information technology systems and processes. Difficulties from or disruptions to these efforts may interrupt our normal operations and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have been investing heavily in our back-office information technology systems and processes for a number of years and expect such investment to continue for the foreseeable future in support of our pursuit of global, scalable solutions across all geographies and functions that we operate in. These continuing investments include: 1) ongoing improvements to the customer experience from initial quote to customer billing and our revenue recognition process; 2) integration of recently-acquired operations onto our various information technology systems; and 3) implementation of new tools and technologies to either further streamline and automate processes, or to support our compliance with evolving U.S. GAAP. Our finance team is also working on a multi-year project to move the backbone of our finance systems to the cloud. As a result of our continued work on these projects, we may experience difficulties with our systems, management distraction and significant business disruptions. For example, difficulties with our systems may interrupt our ability to accept and deliver customer orders and may adversely impact our overall financial operations, including our accounts payable, accounts receivables, general ledger, fixed assets, revenue recognition, close processes, internal financial controls and our ability to otherwise run and track our business. We may need to expend significant attention, time and resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions. All of these changes to our financial systems also create an increased risk of deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting until such systems are stabilized. Such significant investments in our back-office systems may take longer to complete and cost more than originally planned. In addition, we may not realize the full benefits we hoped to achieve and there is a risk of an impairment charge if we decide that portions of these projects will not ultimately benefit us or are de-scoped. Finally, the collective impact of these changes to our business has placed significant demands on impacted employees across multiple functions, increasing the risk of errors and control deficiencies in our financial statements, distraction from the effective operation of our business and difficulty in attracting and retaining employees. Any such difficulties or disruptions may adversely affect our business and results of operations. The level of insurance coverage that we purchase may prove to be inadequate. We carry liability, property, business interruption and other insurance policies to cover insurable risks to our company. We select the types of insurance, the limits and the deductibles based on our specific risk profile, the cost of the insurance coverage versus its perceived benefit and general industry standards. Our insurance policies 20 Table of Contents contain industry standard exclusions for events such as war and nuclear reaction. We purchase earthquake insurance for certain of our IBX data centers, but for our IBX data centers in high-risk zones, including those in California and Japan, we have elected to self-insure. The earthquake and flood insurance that we do purchase would be subject to high deductibles. Any of the limits of insurance that we purchase, including those for cyber risks, could prove to be inadequate, which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The use of high power density equipment may limit our ability to fully utilize our older IBX data centers. Some customers have increased their use of high power density equipment, such as blade servers, in our IBX data centers which has increased the demand for power on a per cabinet basis. Because many of our IBX data centers were built a number of years ago, the current demand for power may exceed the designed electrical capacity in these IBX data centers. As power, not space, is a limiting factor in many of our IBX data centers, our ability to fully utilize those IBX data centers may be impacted. The ability to increase the power capacity of an IBX data center, should we decide to, is dependent on several factors including, but not limited to, the local utility's ability to provide additional power; the length of time required to provide such power; and/or whether it is feasible to upgrade the electrical infrastructure of an IBX data center to deliver additional power to customers. Although we are currently designing and building to a higher power specification than that of many of our older IBX data centers, there is a risk that demand will continue to increase and our IBX data centers could become underutilized sooner than expected. If we are unable to implement our evolving organizational structure or if we are unable to recruit or retain key executives and qualified personnel, our business could be harmed . In connection with the evolving needs of our customers and our business, we continue to review our organizational architecture and have made, and will continue to make, changes as appropriate. There can be no assurances that any of these changes will not result in attrition, that the significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus to implement the changes will not divert attention from operating and growing the business, or that any changes will result in increased organizational effectiveness. We must also continue to identify, hire, train and retain key personnel who maintain relationships with our customers and who can provide the technical, strategic and marketing skills required for our company's growth. There is a shortage of qualified personnel in these fields, and we compete with other companies for the limited pool of talent. The failure to recruit and retain necessary key executives and personnel could cause disruption, harm our business and hamper our ability to grow our company. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. The global multi-tenant data center market is highly fragmented. It is estimated that we are one of more than 1,200 companies that provide these offerings around the world. We compete with these firms which vary in terms of their data center offerings. We must continue to evolve our product strategy and be able to differentiate our IBX data centers and product offerings from those of our competitors. Some of our competitors may adopt aggressive pricing policies, especially if they are not highly leveraged or have lower return thresholds than we do. As a result, we may suffer from pricing pressure that would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Some of these competitors may also provide our target customers with additional benefits, including bundled communication services or cloud services, and may do so in a manner that is more attractive to our potential customers than obtaining space in our IBX data centers. Similarly, with growing acceptance of cloud-based technologies, we are at risk of losing customers that may decide to fully leverage cloud infrastructure offerings instead of managing their own. Competitors could also operate more successfully or form alliances to acquire significant market share. Failure to compete successfully may materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. If we cannot continue to develop, acquire, market and provide new offerings or enhancements to existing offerings that meet customer requirements and differentiate us from our competitors, our results of operations could suffer. 21 Table of Contents As our customers evolve their IT strategies, we must remain flexible and evolve along with new technologies and industry and market shifts. Ineffective planning and execution in our cloud and product development strategies may cause difficulty in sustaining our competitive advantages. The process of developing and acquiring new offerings and enhancing existing offerings is complex. If we fail to anticipate customers evolving needs and expectations or do not adapt to technological and IT trends, our results of operations could suffer. In order to adapt effectively, we sometimes must make long-term investments, develop, acquire or obtain certain intellectual property and commit significant resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for the new offerings. If we misjudge customer needs in the future, our new offerings may not succeed, and our revenues and earnings may be harmed. Additionally, any delay in the development, acquisition, marketing or launch of a new offering could result in customer dissatisfaction or attrition. If we cannot continue adapting our products, or if our competitors can adapt their products more quickly than us, our business could be harmed. We have recently invested in joint ventures in order to develop capacity to serve the large footprint needs of a targeted set of hyperscale customers by leveraging existing capacity and dedicated hyperscale builds. We have announced our intention to seek additional joint venture partners for certain of our hyperscale builds. There can be no assurances that our joint ventures will be successful or that we find additional partners or that we are able to successfully meet the needs of these customers. In 2020, we also acquired Packet Host, Inc. ("Packet"), a bare metal automation company to facilitate a new hardware product offering for us and we expect to continue to consider other new product offerings for our customers. Hardware solutions are a new market area for us which can bring challenges and could harm our business if not executed in the time or manner that we expect. While we believe this new product offering and others we may implement in the future will be desirable to our customers and will complement our other offerings on Platform Equinix, we cannot guarantee the success of this product or any other new product offering. Our results of operations may fluctuate. We have experienced fluctuations in our results of operations on a quarterly and annual basis. The fluctuations in our results of operations may cause the market price of our common stock to be volatile. We may experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations in the foreseeable future due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuations of foreign currencies in the markets in which we operate; the timing and magnitude of depreciation and interest expense or other expenses related to the acquisition, purchase or construction of additional IBX data centers or the upgrade of existing IBX data centers; demand for space, power and solutions at our IBX data centers; increased costs of power; changes in general economic conditions, such as those stemming from pandemics or other economic downturns, or specific market conditions in the telecommunications and internet industries, any of which could have a material impact on us or on our customer base; charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions due to, among other things, impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired, identification of additional assumed contingent liabilities or revised estimates to restructure an acquired company's operations; the duration of the sales cycle for our offerings and our ability to ramp our newly-hired sales persons to full productivity within the time period we have forecasted; additions and changes in product offerings and our ability to ramp up and integrate new products within the time period we have forecasted; restructuring charges or reversals of restructuring charges, which may be necessary due to revised sublease assumptions, changes in strategy or otherwise; acquisitions or dispositions we may make; the financial condition and credit risk of our customers; 22 Table of Contents the provision of customer discounts and credits; the mix of current and proposed products and offerings and the gross margins associated with our products and offerings; the timing required for new and future IBX data centers to open or become fully utilized; competition in the markets in which we operate; conditions related to international operations; increasing repair and maintenance expenses in connection with aging IBX data centers; lack of available capacity in our existing IBX data centers to generate new revenue or delays in opening new or acquired IBX data centers that delay our ability to generate new revenue in markets which have otherwise reached capacity; changes in rent expense as we amend our IBX data center leases in connection with extending their lease terms when their initial lease term expiration dates approach or changes in shared operating costs in connection with our leases, which are commonly referred to as common area maintenance expenses; the timing and magnitude of other operating expenses, including taxes, expenses related to the expansion of sales, marketing, operations and acquisitions, if any, of complementary businesses and assets; the cost and availability of adequate public utilities, including electricity; changes in employee stock-based compensation; overall inflation; increasing interest expense due to any increases in interest rates and/or potential additional debt financings; changes in our tax planning strategies or failure to realize anticipated benefits from such strategies; changes in income tax benefit or expense; and changes in or new GAAP as periodically released by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"). Any of the foregoing factors, or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we have experienced growth in revenues in recent quarters, this growth rate is not necessarily indicative of future results of operations. Prior to 2008, we had generated net losses every fiscal year since inception. It is possible that we may not be able to generate net income on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, a relatively large portion of our expenses are fixed in the short-term, particularly with respect to lease and personnel expenses, depreciation and amortization and interest expenses. Therefore, our results of operations are particularly sensitive to fluctuations in revenues. As such, comparisons to prior reporting periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future performance. In addition, our results of operations in one or more future quarters may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our DSO may be negatively impacted by process and system upgrades and acquisitions. Our DSO may be negatively impacted by ongoing process and system upgrades which can impact our customers' experience in the short term, together with integrating recent acquisitions into our processes and systems, which may have a negative impact on our operating cash flows, liquidity and financial condition. We may incur goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges, or impairment charges to our property, plant and equipment, which could result in a significant reduction to our earnings. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we are required to assess our goodwill and other intangible assets annually, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment, such as changing market conditions or any changes in key assumptions. If the testing performed indicates that an asset may not be recoverable, we are required to record a non-cash impairment charge for the difference between the carrying value of the goodwill or other intangible assets and the implied fair value of the goodwill or other intangible assets in the period the determination is made. We also periodically monitor the remaining net book values of our property, plant and equipment, including at the individual IBX data center level. Although each individual IBX data center is currently performing in accordance 23 Table of Contents with our expectations, the possibility that one or more IBX data centers could begin to under-perform relative to our expectations is possible and may also result in non-cash impairment charges. These charges could be significant, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have incurred substantial losses in the past and may incur additional losses in the future. As of December 31, 2021, our retained earnings were $2.3 billion. Although we have generated net income for each fiscal year since 2008, except for the year ended December 31, 2014, we are currently investing heavily in our future growth through the build out of multiple additional IBX data centers, expansions of IBX data centers and acquisitions of complementary businesses. As a result, we will incur higher depreciation and other operating expenses, as well as transaction costs and interest expense, that may negatively impact our ability to sustain profitability in future periods unless and until these new IBX data centers generate enough revenue to exceed their operating costs and cover the additional overhead needed to scale our business for this anticipated growth. The current global financial uncertainty may also impact our ability to sustain profitability if we cannot generate sufficient revenue to offset the increased costs of our recently-opened IBX data centers or IBX data centers currently under construction. In addition, costs associated with the acquisition and integration of any acquired companies, as well as the additional interest expense associated with debt financing, we have undertaken to fund our growth initiatives, may also negatively impact our ability to sustain profitability. Finally, given the competitive and evolving nature of the industry in which we operate, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. The failure to obtain favorable terms when we renew our IBX data center leases, or the failure to renew such leases, could harm our business and results of operations. While we own certain of our IBX data centers, others are leased under long-term arrangements. These leased IBX data centers have all been subject to significant development by us in order to convert them from, in most cases, vacant buildings or warehouses into IBX data centers. Most of our IBX data center leases have renewal options available to us. However, many of these renewal options provide for the rent to be set at then-prevailing market rates. To the extent that then-prevailing market rates or negotiated rates are higher than present rates, these higher costs may adversely impact our business and results of operations, or we may decide against renewing the lease. In the event that an IBX data center lease does not have a renewal option, or we fail to exercise a renewal option in a timely fashion and lose our right to renew the lease, we may not be successful in negotiating a renewal of the lease with the landlord. A failure to renew a lease could force us to exit a building prematurely, which could disrupt our business, harm our customer relationships, expose us to liability under our customer contracts, cause us to take impairment charges and affect our results of operations negatively. We depend on a number of third parties to provide internet connectivity to our IBX data centers; if connectivity is interrupted or terminated, our results of operations and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. The presence of diverse telecommunications carriers' fiber networks in our IBX data centers is critical to our ability to retain and attract new customers. We are not a telecommunications carrier, and as such, we rely on third parties to provide our customers with carrier services. We believe that the availability of carrier capacity will directly affect our ability to achieve our projected results. We rely primarily on revenue opportunities from the telecommunications carriers' customers to encourage them to invest the capital and operating resources required to connect from their data centers to our IBX data centers. Carriers will likely evaluate the revenue opportunity of an IBX data center based on the assumption that the environment will be highly competitive. We cannot provide assurance that each and every carrier will elect to offer its services within our IBX data centers or that once a carrier has decided to provide internet connectivity to our IBX data centers that it will continue to do so for any period of time. Our new IBX data centers require construction and operation of a sophisticated redundant fiber network. The construction required to connect multiple carrier facilities to our IBX data centers is complex and involves factors outside of our control, including regulatory processes and the availability of construction resources. Any hardware or fiber failures on this network may result in significant loss of connectivity to our new IBX data center expansions. This could affect our ability to attract new customers to these IBX data centers or retain existing customers. 24 Table of Contents To date, the network neutrality of our IBX data centers and the variety of networks available to our customers has often been a competitive advantage for us. In certain of our acquired IBX data centers in the Asia-Pacific region, the limited number of carriers available reduces that advantage. As a result, we may need to adapt our key revenue-generating offerings and pricing to be competitive in those markets. If the establishment of highly diverse internet connectivity to our IBX data centers does not occur, is materially delayed or is discontinued, or is subject to failure, our results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. We have government customers, which subjects us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. We derive revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, state and local governments and foreign governments. Some of these customers may terminate all or part of their contracts at any time, without cause. There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Some of our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the U.S. Congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, some of our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. Government contracts often have unique terms and conditions, such as most favored customer obligations, and are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. Additionally, as a Government Contractor, we could be subject to additional orders and laws such as the US Vaccine Mandate which could have a material adverse effect on our employee satisfaction and our business. Because we depend on the development and growth of a balanced customer base, including key magnet customers, failure to attract, grow and retain this base of customers could harm our business and results of operations. Our ability to maximize revenues depends on our ability to develop and grow a balanced customer base, consisting of a variety of companies, including enterprises, cloud, digital content and financial companies, and network service providers. We consider certain of these customers to be key magnets in that they draw in other customers. The more balanced the customer base within each IBX data center, the better we will be able to generate significant interconnection revenues, which in turn increases our overall revenues. Our ability to attract customers to our IBX data centers will depend on a variety of factors, including the presence of multiple carriers, the mix of our offerings, the overall mix of customers, the presence of key customers attracting business through vertical market ecosystems, the IBX data center's operating reliability and security and our ability to effectively market our offerings. However, some of our customers may face competitive pressures and may ultimately not be successful or may be consolidated through merger or acquisition. If these customers do not continue to use our IBX data centers it may be disruptive to our business. Finally, any uncertain global economic climate, including the one we are currently experiencing as a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, could harm our ability to attract and retain customers if customers slow spending, or delay decision-making on our offerings, or if customers begin to have difficulty paying us or seek bankruptcy protection and we experience increased churn in our customer base. Any of these factors may hinder the development, growth and retention of a balanced customer base and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Industry consolidation may have a negative impact on our business model. If customers combine businesses, they may require less colocation space, which could lead to churn in our customer base. Regional competitors may also consolidate to become a global competitor. Consolidation of our customers and/or our competitors may present a risk to our business model and have a negative impact on our revenues. 25 Table of Contents Our business could be harmed by increased costs to procure power, prolonged power outages, shortages or capacity constraints. Any power outages, shortages, capacity constraints or significant increase in the cost of power may have an adverse effect on our business and our results of operations. In each of our markets, we rely on third parties, and their infrastructure, to provide a sufficient amount of power for current and future customers. At the same time, power and cooling requirements are increasing per unit of equipment. As a result, some customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. We generally do not control the amount of power our customers draw from their installed circuits, which can result in growth in the aggregate power consumption of our facilities beyond our original plan and expectations. This means that limitations on the capacity of our electrical delivery systems and equipment could limit customer utilization of our IBX data centers. These limitations could have a negative impact on the effective available capacity of a given center and limit our ability to grow our business, which could have a negative impact on our financial performance, results of operations and cash flows. Our IBX data centers are affected by problems accessing electricity sources, such as planned or unplanned power outages and limitations on transmission or distribution. Unplanned power outages, including, but not limited to those relating to large storms, earthquakes, fires, tsunamis, cyberattacks, and any failures of electrical power grids more generally, and planned power outages by public utilities, such as those related to Pacific Gas and Electric Company's planned outages in California to minimize fire risks, could harm our customers and our business. Many of our employees in California are still working from home because of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and they could be subjected to planned power outages at home which could be difficult to track and could affect our day to day operations of our non-IBX employees. Our international operations are sometimes located outside of developed, reliable electricity markets, where we are exposed to some insecurity in supply associated with technical and regulatory problems, as well as transmission constraints. Some of our IBX data centers are located in leased buildings where, depending upon the lease requirements and number of tenants involved, we may or may not control some or all of the infrastructure including generators and fuel tanks. As a result, in the event of a power outage, we may be dependent upon the landlord, as well as the utility company, to restore the power. We attempt to limit our exposure to system downtime by using backup generators and alternative power supplies, but these measures may not always prevent downtime, which can adversely affect customer experience and revenues. We are currently experiencing inflation and volatility pressures in the energy market globally. In particular, current dislocation in the Singapore power market has resulted in Equinix having to buy power at extremely elevated spot rates and this ongoing price volatility impacted elements of our 2022 financial projections. Various macroeconomic factors are contributing to the instability and global power shortage including the COVID-19 pandemic, severe weather events, governmental regulations, government relations and inflation. The price for power in many of the countries in which we operate has seen significant increases in recent months, and it is unclear when the markets will stabilize. While we have aimed to minimize our risk exposure related to power procurement in Singapore and globally via hedging, conservation, and other efficiencies, we expect the cost for power to continue to be volatile and unpredictable and subject to inflationary pressures. We believe we have made appropriate estimates for these costs in our forecasting but the unpredictable energy market at this time could materially affect our financial forecasting, results of operations and financial condition. Each new facility requires access to significant quantities of electricity. Limitations on generation, transmission and distribution may limit our ability to obtain sufficient power capacity for potential expansion sites in new or existing markets. We may experience significant delays and substantial increased costs demanded by the utilities to provide the level of electrical service required by our current IBX data center designs. Risks Related to Our Expansion Plans Our construction of new IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions could involve significant risks to our business. In order to sustain our growth in certain of our existing and new markets, we may have to expand an existing data center, lease a new facility or acquire suitable land, with or without structures, to build new IBX data centers from the ground up. Expansions or new builds are currently underway, or being contemplated, in many of our markets. These construction projects expose us to many risks which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain issues and inflation have 26 Table of Contents exacerbated many of these construction risks and created additional risks for our business. Some of the risks associated with construction projects include: construction delays; lack of availability and delays for data center equipment, including items such as generators and switchgear; unexpected budget changes; increased prices for and delays in obtaining building supplies, raw materials and data center equipment; labor availability, labor disputes and work stoppages with contractors, subcontractors and other third parties, including interruptions in work due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; unanticipated environmental issues and geological problems; delays related to permitting and approvals to open from public agencies and utility companies; delays in site readiness leading to our failure to meet commitments made to customers planning to expand into a new build; and unanticipated customer requirements that would necessitate alternative data center design, making our sites less desirable or leading to increased costs in order to make necessary modifications or retrofits. We are currently experiencing rising construction costs which reflect the increase in cost of labor and raw materials, supply chain and logistic challenges, and high demand in our sector. While we have invested in creating a material inventory to mitigate supply chain issues and inflation, it may not be sufficient and ongoing delays, difficulty finding replacement products and continued high inflation could affect our business and growth and could have a material effect on our business. Additional or unexpected disruptions to our supply chain or inflationary pressures could significantly affect the cost of our planned expansion projects and interfere with our ability to meet commitments to customers who have contracted for space in new IBX data centers under construction. Construction projects are dependent on permitting from public agencies and utility companies. Any delay in permitting could affect our growth. We are currently experiencing permitting delays in most metros due to reduced production from labor availability and from other COVID-19 pandemic related permitting restrictions or stoppages. While we don't currently anticipate any material long-term negative impact to our business because of these construction delays, these types of delays and stoppages related to permitting from public agencies and utility companies could worsen and have an adverse effect on our bookings, revenue or growth. Additionally, all construction related projects require us to carefully select and rely on the experience of one or more designers, general contractors, and associated subcontractors during the design and construction process. Should a designer, general contractor, significant subcontractor or key supplier experience financial problems or other problems during the design or construction process, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the project and/or other negative impacts to our expected returns. Site selection is also a critical factor in our expansion plans. There may not be suitable properties available in our markets with the necessary combination of high-power capacity and fiber connectivity, or selection may be limited. Thus, while we may prefer to locate new IBX data centers adjacent to our existing locations, it may not always be possible. In the event we decide to build new IBX data centers separate from our existing IBX data centers, we may provide metro connect solutions to connect these two IBX data centers. Should these solutions not provide the necessary reliability to sustain connection, this could result in lower interconnection revenue and lower margins and could have a negative impact on customer retention over time. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial or strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. Over the last several years, we have completed numerous acquisitions, including most recently that of GPX Global System's, Inc.'s India operations in September 2021, certain data centers from BCE Inc. ("Bell") in Canada in the fourth quarter of 2020, Packet in March 2020, and three data centers from Axtel S.A.B. de C.V. ("Axtel") in Mexico in January 2020. In 2021 we also announced our intention to acquire MainOne, a leading West African data center and connectivity solutions provider, with operations in Nigeria, Ghana and Cte d'Ivoire. We expect to make additional acquisitions in the future, which may include (i) acquisitions of businesses, products, solutions or technologies that we believe to be complementary, (ii) acquisitions of new IBX data centers or real estate for 27 Table of Contents development of new IBX data centers; (iii) acquisitions through investments in local data center operators; or (iv) acquisitions in new markets with higher risk profiles. We may pay for future acquisitions by using our existing cash resources (which may limit other potential uses of our cash), incurring additional debt (which may increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements) and/or issuing shares (which may dilute our existing stockholders and have a negative effect on our earnings per share). Acquisitions expose us to potential risks, many of which could be exacerbated by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, including: the possible disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of management's attention by acquisition, transition and integration activities, particularly when multiple acquisitions and integrations are occurring at the same time or when we are entering an emerging market with a higher risk profile; our potential inability to successfully pursue or realize some or all of the anticipated revenue opportunities associated with an acquisition or investment; the possibility that we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, or businesses in which we invest, or achieve anticipated operating efficiencies or cost savings; the possibility that announced acquisitions may not be completed, due to failure to satisfy the conditions to closing as a result of: an injunction, law or order that makes unlawful the consummation of the acquisition; inaccuracy or breach of the representations and warranties of, or the non-compliance with covenants by, either party; the nonreceipt of closing documents; or for other reasons; the possibility that there could be a delay in the completion of an acquisition, which could, among other things, result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue or other adverse effects resulting from such uncertainty; the possibility that our projections about the success of an acquisition could be inaccurate and any such inaccuracies could have a material adverse effect on our financial projections; the dilution of our existing stockholders as a result of our issuing stock as consideration in a transaction or selling stock in order to fund the transaction; the possibility of customer dissatisfaction if we are unable to achieve levels of quality and stability on par with past practices; the possibility that we will be unable to retain relationships with key customers, landlords and/or suppliers of the acquired businesses, some of which may terminate their contracts with the acquired business as a result of the acquisition or which may attempt to negotiate changes in their current or future business relationships with us; the possibility that we could lose key employees from the acquired businesses; the possibility that we may be unable to integrate certain IT systems that do not meet Equinix's standard requirements with respect to security, privacy or any other standard; the potential deterioration in our ability to access credit markets due to increased leverage; the possibility that our customers may not accept either the existing equipment infrastructure or the "look-and-feel" of a new or different IBX data center; the possibility that additional capital expenditures may be required or that transaction expenses associated with acquisitions may be higher than anticipated; the possibility that required financing to fund an acquisition may not be available on acceptable terms or at all; the possibility that we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under antitrust and competition laws on a timely basis or at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing an acquisition, limit our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic benefits of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; the possible loss or reduction in value of acquired businesses; 28 Table of Contents the possibility that future acquisitions may present new complexities in deal structure, related complex accounting and coordination with new partners, particularly in light of our desire to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT; the possibility that we may not be able to prepare and issue our financial statements and other public filings in a timely and accurate manner, and/or maintain an effective control environment, due to the strain on the finance organization when multiple acquisitions and integrations are occurring at the same time; the possibility that future acquisitions may trigger property tax reassessments resulting in a substantial increase to our property taxes beyond that which we anticipated; the possibility that future acquisitions may be in geographies and regulatory environments to which we are unaccustomed and we may become subject to complex requirements and risks with which we have limited experience; the possibility that future acquisitions may appear less attractive due to fluctuations in foreign currency rates; the possibility that carriers may find it cost-prohibitive or impractical to bring fiber and networks into a new IBX data center; the possibility of litigation or other claims in connection with, or as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; the possibility that asset divestments may be required in order to obtain regulatory clearance for a transaction; the possibility of pre-existing undisclosed liabilities, including, but not limited to, lease or landlord related liability, tax liability, environmental liability or asbestos liability, for which insurance coverage may be insufficient or unavailable, or other issues not discovered in the diligence process; the possibility that we receive limited or incorrect information about the acquired business in the diligence process, particularly in light of the travel bans and other restrictions imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic; and the possibility that we do not have full visibility into customer agreements and customer termination rights during the diligence process which could expose us to additional liabilities after completing the acquisition. The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. If an acquisition does not proceed or is materially delayed for any reason, the price of our common stock may be adversely impacted, and we will not recognize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We cannot assure that the price of any future acquisitions of IBX data centers will be similar to prior IBX data center acquisitions. In fact, we expect costs required to build or render new IBX data centers operational to increase in the future. If our revenue does not keep pace with these potential acquisition and expansion costs, we may not be able to maintain our current or expected margins as we absorb these additional expenses. There is no assurance we would successfully overcome these risks, or any other problems encountered with these acquisitions. The anticipated benefits of our Joint Ventures may not be fully realized, or take longer to realize than expected. We have entered into joint ventures to develop and operate xScale data centers (together, the Joint Ventures). Equinix owns a 20% interest and our JV partners own an 80% interest in each joint venture, and Equinix operates all facilities. Certain sites that are intended to be utilized in Joint Ventures require investment for development. The success of these Joint Ventures will depend, in part, on the successful development of the data center sites, and we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits. Such development may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected and could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, if it is determined these sites are no longer desirable for the Joint Ventures, we would need to adapt such sites for other purposes. 29 Table of Contents We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits from our Joint Ventures. The success of these Joint Ventures will depend, in part, on the successful partnership between Equinix and our JV partners. Such a partnership is subject to risks as outlined below in our risk factor related to new joint ventures, and more generally, to the same types of business risks as would impact our IBX data center business. A failure to successfully partner, or a failure to realize our expectations for the Joint Ventures, could materially impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. These Joint Ventures could also be negatively impacted by development and construction delays, including those resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Joint venture investments could expose us to risks and liabilities in connection with the formation of the new joint ventures, the operation of such joint ventures without sole decision-making authority, and our reliance on joint venture partners who may have economic and business interests that are inconsistent with our business interests. In addition to our current and proposed Joint Ventures, we may co-invest with other third parties through partnerships, joint ventures or other entities in the future. These joint ventures could result in our acquisition of non-controlling interests in, or shared responsibility for, managing the affairs of a property or portfolio of properties, partnership, joint venture or other entity. We may be subject to additional risks, including: we may not have the right to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties, partnership, joint venture or other entity; if our partners become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, we may choose to or be required to contribute such capital; our partners may have economic, tax or other business interests or goals which are inconsistent with our business interests or goals, and may be in a position to take actions contrary to our policies or objectives; our joint venture partners may take actions that are not within our control, which could require us to dispose of the joint venture asset, transfer it to a TRS in order to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT, or purchase the partner's interests or assets at an above-market price; our joint venture partners may take actions unrelated to our business agreement but which reflect poorly on us because of our joint venture; disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our management from focusing their time and effort on our day-to-day business; and we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or guarantee all or a portion of the joint venture's liabilities, which may require us to pay an amount greater than its investment in the joint venture. Each of these factors may result in returns on these investments being less than we expect or in losses, and our financial and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot effectively manage our international operations, and successfully implement our international expansion plans, or comply with evolving laws and regulations, our revenues may not increase, and our business and results of operations would be harmed. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we recognized approximately 61%, 59% and 58%, respectively, of our revenues outside the U.S. We currently operate outside of the U.S. in Canada, Mexico, South America, Asia-Pacific, and EMEA. To date, the network neutrality of our IBX data centers and the variety of networks available to our customers has often been a competitive advantage for us. In addition, we are currently undergoing expansions or evaluating expansion opportunities outside of the U.S. Undertaking and managing expansions in foreign jurisdictions may present unanticipated challenges to us. Our international operations are generally subject to a number of additional risks, including: 30 Table of Contents the costs of customizing IBX data centers for foreign countries; protectionist laws and business practices favoring local competition; greater difficulty or delay in accounts receivable collection; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including negotiating with foreign labor unions or workers' councils; difficulties in managing across cultures and in foreign languages; political and economic instability; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; difficulties in repatriating funds from certain countries; our ability to obtain, transfer or maintain licenses required by governmental entities with respect to our business; unexpected changes in regulatory, tax and political environments such as the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union ("Brexit"), the Hong Kong national security law, and the current trade war between the U.S. and China; our ability to secure and maintain the necessary physical and telecommunications infrastructure; compliance with anti-bribery and corruption laws; compliance with economic and trade sanctions enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury; compliance with changing laws, policies, and requirements related to sustainability; compliance with evolving governmental regulation with which we have little experience; and compliance with evolving and varied regulations related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and related vaccine mandates. Geo-political events, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Brexit, the Hong Kong national security law, the trade war between the U.S. and China and Russian and Ukraine tensions, may increase the likelihood of the listed risks to occur and could have a negative effect on our business domestically or internationally. With respect to Brexit, it is possible that the level of economic activity in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe will be adversely impacted and that we will face increased regulatory and legal complexities in these regions which could have an adverse impact on our business and employees in EMEA and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") and other data privacy laws and requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, economic and trade sanctions, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials. With respect to the current trade war between the U.S. and China, we have several customers in China named in restrictive executive orders by the previous U.S. administration that are currently covered by a freeze issued by the current U.S. administration or currently enjoined from enforcement subject to pending litigation. If Equinix is required to cease business with these companies, or additional companies in the future, our revenues could be adversely affected. Violations of any of these domestic or international laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our offerings in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and results of operations. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks and manage these difficulties. We are continuing to invest in our expansion efforts but may not have sufficient customer demand in the future to realize expected returns on these investments. We are considering the acquisition or lease of additional properties and the construction of new IBX data centers beyond those expansion projects already announced. We will be required to commit substantial operational and financial resources to these IBX data centers, generally 12 to 18 months in advance of securing customer contracts, and we may not have sufficient customer demand in those markets to support these IBX data centers once they are built. In addition, unanticipated technological changes could affect customer requirements for data 31 Table of Contents centers, and we may not have built such requirements into our new IBX data centers. Either of these contingencies, if they were to occur, could make it difficult for us to realize expected or reasonable returns on these investments. Risks Related to Our Capital Needs and Capital Strategy Our substantial debt could adversely affect our cash flows and limit our flexibility to raise additional capital. We have a significant amount of debt and may need to incur additional debt to support our growth. Additional debt may also be incurred to fund future acquisitions, any future special distributions, regular distributions or the other cash outlays associated with maintaining our qualification for taxation as a REIT. As of December 31, 2021, our total indebtedness (gross of debt issuance cost, debt discount, and debt premium) was approximately $13.9 billion, our stockholders' equity was $10.9 billion and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.5 billion. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1.9 billion of additional liquidity available to us from our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility. In addition to our substantial debt, we lease many of our IBX data centers and certain equipment under lease agreements, some of which are accounted for as operating leases. As of December 31, 2021, we recorded operating lease liabilities of $1.3 billion, which represents our obligation to make lease payments under those lease arrangements. Our substantial amount of debt and related covenants, and our off-balance sheet commitments, could have important consequences. For example, they could: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest and principal payments on our debt and in respect of other off-balance sheet arrangements, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund future capital expenditures, working capital, execution of our expansion strategy and other general corporate requirements; increase the likelihood of negative outlook from our credit rating agencies, or of a downgrade to our current rating; make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations under our various debt instruments; increase our cost of borrowing and even limit our ability to access additional debt to fund future growth; increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse changes in governmental regulations; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors; limit our operating flexibility through covenants with which we must comply; limit our ability to borrow additional funds, even when necessary to maintain adequate liquidity, which would also limit our ability to further expand our business; and make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates because of the variable interest rates on some of our borrowings to the extent we have not entirely hedged such variable rate debt. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. These risks could materially adversely affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Sales or issuances of shares of our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales or issuances of common stock or other equity related securities may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, including any shares of our common stock issued to finance capital expenditures, finance acquisitions or repay debt. In October 2020, we established an "at the market" equity offering program (the "2020 ATM Program") in the amount of $1.5 billion under which we may, from time to time, issue and sell shares of our common stock to or through sales agents up to established limits. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.0 billion available for sale under the 2020 ATM Program. We expect to refresh our ATM program periodically, which could lead to additional dilution for our stockholders in the future. We may also seek authorization to sell additional shares 32 Table of Contents of common stock through other means which could lead to additional dilution for our stockholders. Please see Note 12 within the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for sales of our common stock under our ATM programs. If we are not able to generate sufficient operating cash flows or obtain external financing, our ability to fund incremental expansion plans may be limited. Our capital expenditures, together with ongoing operating expenses, obligations to service our debt and the cash outlays associated with our REIT distribution requirements, are, and will continue to be, a substantial burden on our cash flow and may decrease our cash balances. Additional debt or equity financing may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. Our inability to obtain additional debt and/or equity financing or to generate sufficient cash from operations may require us to prioritize projects or curtail capital expenditures which could adversely affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate internationally could harm our results of operations. We may experience gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. To date, the majority of revenues and costs in our international operations are denominated in foreign currencies. Where our prices are denominated in U.S. Dollars, our sales and revenues could be adversely affected by declines in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar, thereby making our offerings more expensive in local currencies. We are also exposed to risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates in connection with our international operations. To the extent we are paying contractors in foreign currencies, our operations could cost more than anticipated as a result of declines in the U.S. Dollar relative to foreign currencies. In addition, fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates have a direct impact on how our international results of operations translate into U.S. Dollars. Although we currently undertake, and may decide in the future to further undertake, foreign exchange hedging transactions to reduce foreign currency transaction exposure, we do not currently intend to eliminate all foreign currency transaction exposure. In addition, REIT compliance rules may restrict our ability to enter into hedging transactions. Therefore, any weakness of the U.S. Dollar may have a positive impact on our consolidated results of operations because the currencies in the foreign countries in which we operate may translate into more U.S. Dollars. However, if the U.S. Dollar strengthens relative to the currencies of the foreign countries in which we operate, our consolidated financial position and results of operations may be negatively impacted as amounts in foreign currencies will generally translate into fewer U.S. Dollars. For additional information on foreign currency risks, refer to our discussion of foreign currency risk in "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" included in