Item 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The words Equinix, we, our, ours, us and the Company refer to Equinix, Inc. The information in this discussion contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such statements are based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. For example, the words believes, anticipates, plans, expects, intends and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of certain events may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources below and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information available to us as of the date of this report and we assume no obligation to update any such forward-looking statements. Our managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is intended to assist readers in understanding our financial information from our managements perspective and is presented as follows: Overview Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures Liquidity and Capital Resources Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Recent Accounting Pronouncements Overview In April and May 2014, as more fully described in Note 13 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we entered into agreements with certain note holders to exchange an aggregate of $170.1 million of the principal amount of the 4.75% convertible subordinated notes for 2,017,806 shares of our common stock and cash payments totaling approximately $17.6 million. As a result, we will recognize a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $38.0 million in the second quarter of 2014 upon the exchange of the 4.75% convertible subordinated notes. Equinix provides global data center offerings that protect and connect the worlds most valued information assets. Global enterprises, financial services companies and content and network service providers rely upon Equinixs leading insight and data centers in 32 markets around the world for the safehousing of their critical IT equipment and the ability to directly connect to the networks that enable todays information-driven economy. Equinix offers the following solutions: (i) premium data center colocation, (ii) interconnection and (iii) exchange and outsourced IT infrastructure services. As of March 31, 2014, we operated or had partner International Business Exchange (IBX) data centers in the Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Denver, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, Rio De Janeiro, Sao Paulo, Seattle, Silicon Valley, Toronto and Washington, D.C. metro areas in the Americas region; France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom in the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) region; and Australia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan and Singapore in the Asia-Pacific region. We leverage our global data centers in 32 markets around the world as a global platform which allows our customers to increase information and application delivery performance while significantly reducing costs. Based on our global platform and the quality of our IBX data centers, we believe we have established a critical mass of customers. As more customers locate in our IBX data centers, it benefits their suppliers and business partners to colocate as well in order to gain the full economic and performance benefits of our offerings. These partners, in turn, pull in their business partners, creating a marketplace for their services. Our global platform enables scalable, reliable and cost-effective colocation, interconnection and traffic exchange thus lowering overall cost and increasing flexibility. Our focused business model is based on our critical mass of customers and the resulting marketplace effect. This global platform, combined with our strong financial position, continues to drive new customer growth and bookings as we drive scale into our global business. 28 Table of Contents Historically, our market has been served by large telecommunications carriers who have bundled their telecommunications products and services with their colocation offerings. The data center market landscape has evolved to include cloud computing/utility providers, application hosting providers and systems integrators, managed infrastructure hosting providers and colocation providers with over 350 companies providing data center solutions in the U.S. alone. Each of these data center solutions providers can bundle various colocation, interconnection and network offerings, and outsourced IT infrastructure services. We are able to offer our customers a global platform that supports global reach to 15 countries, proven operational reliability, improved application performance and network choice, and a highly scalable set of offerings. Our customer count increased to approximately 6,047 as of March 31, 2014 versus approximately 5,550 as of March 31, 2013, an increase of 9%. This increase was due to organic growth in our business. Our utilization rate represents the percentage of our cabinet space billing versus net sellable cabinet space available, taking into account power limitations. Our utilization rate was approximately 75% as of March 31, 2014 and March 31, 2013; however, excluding the impact of our IBX data center expansion projects that have opened during the last 12 months, our utilization rate would have increased to approximately 80% as of March 31, 2014. Our utilization rate varies from market to market among our IBX data centers across the Americas, EMEA and Asia-Pacific regions. We continue to monitor the available capacity in each of our selected markets. To the extent we have limited capacity available in a given market it may limit our ability for growth in that market. We perform demand studies on an ongoing basis to determine if future expansion is warranted in a market. In addition, power and cooling requirements for most customers are growing on a per unit basis. As a result, customers are consuming an increasing amount of power per cabinet. Although we generally do not control the amount of power our customers draw from installed circuits, we have negotiated power consumption limitations with certain of our high power demand customers. This increased power consumption has driven the requirement to build out our new IBX data centers to support power and cooling needs twice that of previous IBX data centers. We could face power limitations in our IBX data centers even though we may have additional physical cabinet capacity available within a specific IBX data center. This could have a negative impact on the available utilization capacity of a given IBX data center, which could have a negative impact on our ability to grow revenues, affecting our financial performance, operating results and cash flows. Strategically, we will continue to look at attractive opportunities to grow our market share and selectively improve our footprint and offerings. As was the case with our recent expansions and acquisitions, our expansion criteria will be dependent on a number of factors such as demand from new and existing customers, quality of the design, power capacity, access to networks, capacity availability in the current market location, amount of incremental investment required by us in the targeted property, lead-time to break-even on a free cash flow basis and in-place customers. Like our recent expansions and acquisitions, the right combination of these factors may be attractive to us. Depending on the circumstances, these transactions may require additional capital expenditures funded by upfront cash payments or through long-term financing arrangements in order to bring these properties up to Equinix standards. Property expansion may be in the form of purchases of real property, long-term leasing arrangements or acquisitions. Future purchases, construction or acquisitions may be completed by us or with partners or potential customers to minimize the outlay of cash, which can be significant. Our business is based on a recurring revenue model comprised of colocation and related interconnection and managed infrastructure offerings. We consider these offerings recurring because our customers are generally billed on a fixed and recurring basis each month for the duration of their contract, which is generally one to three years in length. Our recurring revenues have comprised more than 90% of our total revenues during the past three years. In addition, during the past three years, in any given quarter, greater than half of our monthly recurring revenue bookings came from existing customers, contributing to our revenue growth. 29 Table of Contents Our non-recurring revenues are primarily comprised of installation services related to a customers initial deployment and professional services that we perform. These services are considered to be non-recurring because they are billed typically once upon completion of the installation or professional services work performed. The majority of these non-recurring revenues are typically billed on the first invoice distributed to the customer in connection with their initial installation. However, revenues from installation services are deferred and recognized ratably over the expected life of the customer installation. Additionally, revenue from contract settlements, when a customer wishes to terminate their contract early, is recognized when no remaining performance obligations exist and collectability is reasonably assured, to the extent that the revenue has not previously been recognized. As a percentage of total revenues, we expect non-recurring revenues to represent less than 10% of total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our Americas revenues are derived primarily from colocation and related interconnection offerings, and our EMEA and Asia-Pacific revenues are derived primarily from colocation and managed infrastructure offerings. The largest components of our cost of revenues are depreciation, rental payments related to our leased IBX data centers, utility costs, including electricity and bandwidth, IBX data center employees salaries and benefits, including stock-based compensation, repairs and maintenance, supplies and equipment and security services. A substantial majority of our cost of revenues is fixed in nature and should not vary significantly from period to period, unless we expand our existing IBX data centers or open or acquire new IBX data centers. However, there are certain costs which are considered more variable in nature, including utilities and supplies, that are directly related to growth in our existing and new customer base. We expect the cost of our utilities, specifically electricity, will generally increase in the future on a per-unit or fixed basis in addition to the variable increase related to the growth in consumption by our customers. In addition, the cost of electricity is generally higher in the summer months as compared to other times of the year. To the extent we incur increased utility costs, such increased costs could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, to the extent we incur increased electricity costs as a result of either climate change policies or the physical effects of climate change, such increased costs could materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation and related costs for sales and marketing personnel, including stock-based compensation, sales commissions, marketing programs, public relations, promotional materials and travel, as well as bad debt expense and amortization of customer contract intangible assets. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based compensation, accounting, legal and other professional service fees, and other general corporate expenses such as our corporate regional headquarters office leases and some depreciation expense. Due to our recurring revenue model, and a cost structure which has a large base that is fixed in nature and generally does not grow in proportion to revenue growth, we expect our cost of revenues, sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses to decline as a percentage of revenues over time, although we expect each of them to grow in absolute dollars in connection with our growth. This is evident in the trends noted below in our discussion about our results of operations. However, for cost of revenues, this trend may periodically be impacted when a large expansion project opens or is acquired and before it starts generating any meaningful revenue. Furthermore, in relation to cost of revenues, we note that the Americas region has a lower cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue than either EMEA or Asia-Pacific. This is due to both the increased scale and maturity of the Americas region compared to either the EMEA or Asia-Pacific region, as well as a higher cost structure outside of the Americas, particularly in EMEA. While we expect all three regions to continue to see lower cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues in future periods, we expect the trend of the Americas having the lowest cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues to continue. As a result, to the extent that revenue growth outside the Americas grows in greater proportion than revenue growth in the Americas, our overall cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues may increase in future periods. Sales and marketing expenses and general and administrative expenses may also periodically increase as a percentage of revenues as we continue to scale our operations to support our growth. 30 Table of Contents Potential REIT Conversion In September 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors approved a plan for Equinix to pursue conversion to a real estate investment trust (REIT). We have begun implementation of the REIT conversion, and we plan to make a tax election for REIT status for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2015. Any REIT election made by us must be effective as of the beginning of a taxable year; therefore, as a calendar year taxpayer, if we are unable to convert to a REIT by January 1, 2015, the next possible conversion date would be January 1, 2016. If we are able to convert to and qualify as a REIT, we will generally be permitted to deduct from federal income taxes the dividends we pay to our stockholders. The income represented by such dividends would not be subject to federal taxation at the entity level but would be taxed, if at all, at the stockholder level. Nevertheless, the income of our domestic taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRS, which will hold our U.S. operations that may not be REIT-compliant, will be subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income tax. Likewise, our foreign subsidiaries will continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in jurisdictions in which they hold assets or conduct operations, regardless of whether held or conducted through TRS or through qualified REIT subsidiaries, or QRS. We will also be subject to a separate corporate income tax on any gains recognized during a specified period (generally 10 years) following the REIT conversion that are attributable to built-in gains with respect to the assets that we own on the date we convert to a REIT. Our ability to qualify as a REIT will depend upon our continuing compliance following our REIT conversion with various requirements, including requirements related to the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the distributions to our stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates. Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property in addition to taxes owed with respect to our TRS operations. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the federal income tax regime for REITs described above, many states do not completely follow federal rules and some may not follow them at all. The REIT conversion implementation currently includes seeking a private letter ruling, or PLR, from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. Our PLR request has multiple components, and our timely conversion to a REIT will require favorable rulings from the IRS on certain technical tax issues. We submitted the PLR request to the IRS in the fourth quarter of 2012. In June 2013, we disclosed that we had been informed that the IRS had convened an internal working group to study what constitutes real estate for purposes of the REIT provisions of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code) and that, pending the completion of the study, the IRS was unlikely to respond definitively to our pending PLR request. In November 2013, the IRS informed us that it was actively resuming work on our PLR request and would respond in due course. We do not expect that this delay will affect the timing of our plan to elect REIT status for the taxable year beginning January 1, 2015. We currently expect to receive a favorable PLR from the IRS in 2014 and combined with Board of Directors approval and completion of other necessary conversion actions, we thereafter would commit to a final REIT conversion plan. Once we reach this commitment, the financial statements for 2014 will reflect the necessary accounting adjustments including an adjustment to eliminate the U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities balances discussed below as well as any tax consequences for the shareholder distributions also discussed below. 31 Table of Contents We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $75.0 to $85.0 million in costs to support the REIT conversion, of which $47.8 million has been incurred to date, in addition to related tax liabilities associated with a change in our methods of depreciating and amortizing various data center assets for tax purposes from our prior methods to current methods that are more consistent with the characterization of such assets as real property for REIT purposes. The total recapture of depreciation and amortization expenses across all relevant assets is expected to result in federal and state tax liability of approximately $360.0 to $380.0 million, which amount became and is generally payable over a four-year period starting in 2012 even if we abandon the REIT conversion for any reason, including failure to obtain a favorable PLR response. To date, we have settled $192.9 million of the estimated federal and state tax liability related to the recapture of depreciation and amortization expenses. Prior to the decision to convert to a REIT, our balance sheet reflected our income tax liability as a non-current deferred tax liability. As a result of the decision to convert to a REIT, our non-current tax liability has been and will continue to be gradually and proportionally reclassified from non-current to current over the four-year period, which started in the third quarter of 2012. The current liability reflects the tax liability that relates to additional taxable income expected to be recognized within the twelve-month period from the date of the balance sheet. If the REIT conversion is successful, we also expect to incur an additional $5.0 to $10.0 million in annual compliance costs in future years. We expect to pay between $145.0 to $200.0 million in cash taxes during 2014 which includes taxes on our operations and any tax impacts required by our plan to convert to a REIT. In accordance with tax rules applicable to REIT conversions, we expect to issue special distributions to our stockholders of undistributed accumulated earnings and profits (E&P) of approximately $700.0 million to $1.1 billion (the E&P distribution), which we expect to pay out in a combination of up to 20% in cash and at least 80% in the form of our common stock. The estimated E&P distribution may change due to potential changes in certain factors impacting the calculations, such as finalization of the 2013 E&P amounts, the actual financial year 2014 performance of the entities to be included in the REIT structure and the impact of any other transactions we may undertake during the fiscal year. We expect to make the E&P distribution only after receiving a favorable PLR from the IRS, obtaining Board of Directors approval and completion of other necessary REIT conversion actions. The Company anticipates making an E&P distribution before 2015 with the balance distributed in 2015. In addition, following the completion of the REIT conversion, we intend to declare regular distributions to our stockholders. In connection with our contemplated REIT conversion, we expect to reassess the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our U.S. operations to be included in the REIT structure during 2014 at the point in time when it is determined that all significant actions to effect the REIT conversion have occurred and we are committed to that course of action. The reevaluation will result in de-recognizing the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our REITs U.S. operations excluding the deferred tax liabilities associated with the depreciation and amortization recapture. The depreciation and amortization recapture is necessary as part of our REIT conversion efforts. The de-recognition of the deferred tax assets and liabilities of our REITs U.S. operations will occur because the expected recovery or settlement of the related assets and liabilities will not result in deductible or taxable amounts in any post-REIT conversion periods. As a result of the de-recognition of the aforementioned deferred tax assets and liabilities of our REITs U.S. operations and the continuing recognition of deferred tax liabilities associated with the depreciation and amortization recapture to be taxed in 2014 and 2015, we expect to record a significant tax provision expense in 2014. 32 Table of Contents Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Revenues. Our revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were generated from the following revenue classifications and geographic regions (dollars in thousands): Three months ended March 31, % change 2014 % 2013 % Actual Constant currency Americas: Recurring revenues $ 314,980 54 % $ 295,098 57 % 7 % 9 % Non-recurring revenues 15,053 3 % 10,694 2 % 41 % 42 % 330,033 57 % 305,792 59 % 8 % 10 % EMEA: Recurring revenues 142,125 25 % 113,282 22 % 25 % 17 % Non-recurring revenues 9,305 1 % 6,687 1 % 39 % 23 % 151,430 26 % 119,969 23 % 26 % 17 % Asia-Pacific: Recurring revenues 92,598 16 % 86,142 17 % 7 % 14 % Non-recurring revenues 5,992 1 % 4,231 1 % 42 % 44 % 98,590 17 % 90,373 18 % 9 % 15 % Total: Recurring revenues 549,703 95 % 494,522 96 % 11 % 12 % Non-recurring revenues 30,350 5 % 21,612 4 % 40 % 36 % $ 580,053 100 % $ 516,134 100 % 12 % 13 % Americas Revenues. Growth in Americas revenues was primarily due to (i) $ 6.9 million of revenue generated from our recently-opened IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions in the Chicago, Dallas, New York, Rio de Janeiro, So Paulo, Seattle, Silicon Valley and Washington, D.C. metro areas and (ii) an increase in orders from both our existing customers and new customers during the period as reflected in the growth in our customer count and utilization rate, as discussed above. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the U.S. dollar was generally stronger relative to the Canadian dollar and Brazilian real than during the three months ended March 31, 2013, resulting in approximately $7.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact to our Americas revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2014 when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. We expect that our Americas revenues will continue to grow in future periods as a result of continued growth in the recently-opened IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions and additional expansions currently taking place in the New York, Philadelphia, Toronto and So Paulo metro areas, which are expected to open during the remainder of 2014 and 2015. Our estimates of future revenue growth take account of expected changes in recurring revenues attributed to customer bookings, customer churn or changes or amendments to customers contracts. EMEA Revenues. Our revenues from the U.K., the largest revenue contributor in the EMEA region for the period, represented approximately 37% and 36%, respectively, of the regional revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013. Our EMEA revenue growth was primarily due to (i) approximately $14.9 million of revenue from our recently-opened IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions in the Frankfurt, London and Zurich metro areas and (ii) an increase in orders from both our existing customers and new customers during the period as reflected in the growth in our customer count and utilization rate, as discussed above. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations resulted in approximately $10.8 million of favorable foreign currency impact to our EMEA revenues primarily due to a generally weaker U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and Euro during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. We expect that our EMEA revenues will continue to grow in future periods as a result of continued growth in recently-opened IBX data centers or IBX data center expansions and additional expansions currently taking place in the Amsterdam and London metro areas, which are expected to open during the remainder of 2014 and 2015. Our estimates of future revenue growth take account of expected changes in recurring revenues attributed to customer bookings, customer churn or changes or amendments to customers contracts. 33 Table of Contents Asia-Pacific Revenues. Our revenues from Singapore, the largest revenue contributor in the Asia-Pacific region, represented approximately 37% of the regional revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013. Our Asia-Pacific revenue growth was primarily due to (i) approximately $5.2 million of revenue generated from our recently-opened IBX data center expansions in the Osaka, Singapore, Sydney and Tokyo metro areas and (ii) an increase in orders from both our existing customers and new customers during the period as reflected in the growth in our customer count and utilization rate, as discussed above. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the U.S. dollar was generally stronger relative to the Australian dollar, Japanese yen and Singapore dollar, than during the three months ended March 31, 2013, resulting in approximately $5.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact to our Asia-Pacific revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2014 when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. We expect that our Asia-Pacific revenues will continue to grow in future periods as a result of continued growth in these recently-opened IBX data center expansions and additional expansions currently taking place in the Hong Kong, Melbourne, Osaka, Shanghai and Singapore metro areas, which are expected to open during the remainder of 2014 and 2015. Our estimates of future revenue growth take account of expected changes in recurring revenues attributed to customer bookings, or changes or amendments to customers contracts. Cost of Revenues. Our cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were split among the following geographic regions (dollars in thousands): Three months ended March 31, % change 2014 % 2013 % Actual Constant currency Americas $ 141,765 49 % $ 142,875 55 % (1 %) 3 % EMEA 86,531 30 % 63,701 25 % 36 % 32 % Asia-Pacific 59,229 21 % 52,015 20 % 14 % 20 % Total $ 287,525 100 % $ 258,591 100 % 11 % 14 % Three months ended March 31, 2014 2013 Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues: Americas 43 % 47 % EMEA 57 % 53 % Asia-Pacific 60 % 58 % Total 50 % 50 % Americas Cost of Revenues. Our Americas cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 included $50.4 million and $53.0 million, respectively, of depreciation expense. The decrease in depreciation expense was primarily due to $5.8 million of lower depreciation expense resulting from the increase in the useful lives of certain fixed assets when we entered into lease amendments to extend the lease term for certain IBX data centers, partially offset by an increase in depreciation expense due to our IBX data center expansion activity. Excluding depreciation expense, the increase in our Americas cost of revenues was primarily due to $3.8 million of higher utility costs and $2.8 million of higher costs associated with certain custom services provided to our customers, partially offset by $4.4 million of lower rent and facility costs primarily as a result of either certain leases no longer being subject to operating lease treatment or the purchase of previously-leased sites. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Americas cost of revenues resulted in approximately $5.3 million of favorable foreign currency impact to our Americas cost of revenues primarily due to generally stronger U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and Brazilian real during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. 34 Table of Contents EMEA Cost of Revenues. Our EMEA cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 included $25.8 million and $19.4 million, respectively, of depreciation expense. Growth in depreciation expense was primarily due to our IBX data center expansion activity and acquisitions. Excluding depreciation expense, the increase in our EMEA cost of revenues was primarily due to (i) the impact of an acquisition of a carrier hotel in Frankfurt, Germany, also referred to as the Frankfurt Kleyer 90 Carrier Hotel acquisition, which resulted in $2.6 million of incremental cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014, (ii) $9.8 million of higher utility, rent and facilities costs and (iii) $4.6 million of higher costs associated with certain custom services provided to our customers, compensation expense and professional fees to support our growth. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our EMEA cost of revenues resulted in approximately $2.5 million of net unfavorable foreign currency impact to our EMEA cost of revenues primarily due to a generally weaker U.S. dollar relative to the British pound and Euro during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. We expect EMEA cost of revenues to increase as we continue to grow our business. Asia-Pacific Cost of Revenues. Our Asia-Pacific cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 included $23.3 million and $20.5 million, respectively, of depreciation expense. Growth in depreciation expense was primarily due to our IBX data center expansion activity. Excluding depreciation expense, the increase in Asia-Pacific cost of revenues was primarily due to $2.5 million of higher costs associated with certain custom services provided to our customers and higher utility costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Asia-Pacific cost of revenues resulted in approximately $3.4 million of net favorable foreign currency impact to our Asia-Pacific cost of revenues primarily due to a generally stronger U.S. dollar relative to Australian dollar, Japanese yen and Singapore dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. We expect Asia-Pacific cost of revenues to increase as we continue to grow our business. Sales and Marketing Expenses . Our sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were split among the following geographic regions (dollars in thousands): Three months ended March 31, % change 2014 % 2013 % Actual Constant currency Americas $ 41,074 61 % $ 35,576 61 % 15 % 18 % EMEA 17,084 25 % 15,904 27 % 7 % 3 % Asia-Pacific 9,270 14 % 6,796 12 % 36 % 43 % Total $ 67,428 100 % $ 58,276 100 % 16 % 17 % Three months ended March 31, 2014 2013 Sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues: Americas 12 % 12 % EMEA 11 % 13 % Asia-Pacific 9 % 8 % Total 12 % 11 % 35 Table of Contents Americas Sales and Marketing Expenses. The increase in our Americas sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to $3.8 million of higher compensation costs, including sales compensation, general salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and headcount growth (413 Americas sales and marketing employees as of March 31, 2014 versus 347 as of March 31, 2013). During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Americas sales and marketing expenses was not significant when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Over the past several years, we have been investing in our Americas sales and marketing initiatives to further increase our revenue. These investments have included the hiring of additional headcount and new product innovation efforts and, as a result, our Americas sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues have increased. Although we anticipate that we will continue to invest in Americas sales and marketing initiatives, we believe our Americas sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues will remain at approximately current levels over the next year but should ultimately decrease as we continue to grow our business. EMEA Sales and Marketing Expenses. Our EMEA sales and marketing expenses did not materially change and the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our EMEA sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was not significant when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Over the past several years, we have been investing in our EMEA sales and marketing initiatives to further increase our revenue. These investments have included the hiring of additional headcount and new product innovation efforts and, as a result, our EMEA sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues have increased. Although we anticipate that we will continue to invest in EMEA sales and marketing initiatives, we believe our EMEA sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues will remain at approximately current levels over the next year or two but should ultimately decrease as we continue to grow our business. Asia-Pacific Sales and Marketing Expenses. The increase in our Asia-Pacific sales and marketing expenses was primarily due to $2.1 million of higher professional fees to support our growth and higher compensation costs, including sales compensation, general salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation expense and headcount growth (125 Asia-Pacific sales and marketing employees as of March 31, 2014 versus 108 as of March 31, 2013). For the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Asia-Pacific sales and marketing expenses was not significant when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Over the past several years, we have been investing in our Asia-Pacific sales and marketing initiatives to further increase our revenue. These investments have included the hiring of additional headcount and new product innovation efforts and, as a result, our Asia-Pacific sales and marketing expenses have increased. Although we anticipate that we will continue to invest in Asia-Pacific sales and marketing initiatives, we believe our Asia-Pacific sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues will remain at approximately current levels over the next year or two but should ultimately decrease as we continue to grow our business. General and Administrative Expenses. Our general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were split among the following geographic regions (dollars in thousands): Three months ended March 31, % change 2014 % 2013 % Actual Constant currency Americas $ 75,357 73 % $ 64,564 71 % 17 % 18 % EMEA 17,829 17 % 17,744 20 % 0 % (4 %) Asia-Pacific 10,117 10 % 8,510 9 % 19 % 23 % Total $ 103,303 100 % $ 90,818 100 % 14 % 14 % 36 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2014 2013 General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues: Americas 23 % 21 % EMEA 12 % 15 % Asia-Pacific 10 % 9 % Total 18 % 18 % Americas General and Administrative Expenses. The increase in our Americas general and administrative expenses was primarily due to $6.7 million of higher professional fees to support our growth and our REIT conversion process and $2.4 million of higher compensation costs, including general salaries, bonuses and headcount growth (699 Americas general and administrative employees as of March 31, 2014 versus 688 as of March 31, 2013). During the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Americas general and administrative expenses was not significant when compared to average exchange rates for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Over the course of the past year, we have been investing in our Americas general and administrative functions to scale this region effectively for growth, which has included additional investments into improving our back office systems. We expect our current efforts to improve our back office systems will continue over the next several years. We are also incurring costs to support our REIT conversion process. Collectively, these investments in our back office systems and our REIT conversion process have resulted in increased professional fees. Going forward, although we are carefully monitoring our spending, we expect Americas general and administrative expenses to increase as we continue to further scale our operations to support our growth, including these investments in our back office systems and the REIT conversion process. EMEA General and Administrative Expenses. Our EMEA general and administrative expenses did not materially change and the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our EMEA general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was not significant when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Over the course of the past year, we have been investing in our EMEA general and administrative functions as a result of our ongoing efforts to scale this region effectively for growth. Going forward, although we are carefully monitoring our spending given the current economic environment, we expect our EMEA general and administrative expenses to increase in future periods as we continue to scale our operations to support our growth; however, as a percentage of revenues, we generally expect them to decrease. Asia-Pacific General and Administrative Expenses. The increase in our Asia-Pacific general and administrative expenses was primarily due to higher compensation costs, including general salaries, bonuses, stock-based compensation and headcount growth (211 Asia-Pacific general and administrative employees as of March 31, 2014 versus 186 as of March 31, 2013). For the three months ended March 31, 2014, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations to our Asia-Pacific general and administrative expenses was not significant when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Going forward, although we are carefully monitoring our spending given the current economic environment, we expect Asia-Pacific general and administrative expenses to increase as we continue to scale our operations to support our growth; however, as a percentage of revenues, we generally expect them to decrease. Acquisition Costs. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded acquisition costs totaling $185,000 and $3.7 million, respectively, primarily attributed to Americas region. Interest Income. Interest income increased to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 from $747,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Interest income increased primarily due to higher invested balances and higher yields on foreign invested balances. The average annualized yield for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was 0.44% versus 0.27% for the three months ended March 31, 2013. 37 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense increased to $68.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2014 from $60.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013. This increase in interest expense was primarily due to the impact of our $1.5 billion senior notes offering in March 2013 and additional financings such as various capital lease and other financing obligations to support our expansion projects. During the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, we capitalized $3.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively, of interest expense to construction in progress. Going forward, we expect to incur higher interest expense as we recognize the full impact of our $1.5 billion senior notes offering, partially offset by the redemption of our 8.125% senior notes in April 2013, which will contribute approximately $17.7 million in incremental interest expense annually. However, we may incur additional indebtedness to support our growth, resulting in higher interest expense. Other Income (Expense). We recorded $678,000 of other income and $459,000 of other expense, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, primarily due to foreign currency exchange gains and losses during the periods. Income Taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, we recorded $13.6 million and $11.5 million of income tax expenses, respectively. Our effective tax rates were 24.7% and 25.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. We expect to recognize a higher income tax provision in 2014 due to certain jurisdictions becoming profitable in 2014, which incurred losses in prior years. In addition, we expect cash income taxes during the remainder of 2014 to increase primarily related to the impact of recognizing the depreciation and amortization recapture as a result of the change of our method of depreciating and amortizing various data center assets for tax purposes in connection with our REIT conversion plan. The cash taxes for 2014 and 2013 are primarily for U.S. federal and state income taxes and foreign income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. Adjusted EBITDA . Adjusted EBITDA is a key factor in how we assess the performance of each segment, measure the operational cash generating abilities of each segment and develop regional growth strategies such as IBX data center expansion decisions. We define adjusted EBITDA as income or loss from operations plus depreciation, amortization, accretion, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, impairment charges and acquisition costs. Our adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 were split among the following geographic regions (dollars in thousands): Three months ended March 31, % change 2014 % 2013 % Actual Constant currency Americas $ 149,563 57 % $ 144,517 60 % 3 % 5 % EMEA 63,205 25 % 48,729 20 % 30 % 13 % Asia-Pacific 47,620 18 % 47,642 20 % 0 % 6 % Total $ 260,388 100 % $ 240,888 100 % 8 % 7 % Americas Adjusted EBITDA. The increase in our Americas adjusted EBITDA was due to higher revenues as result of our IBX data center expansion activity and organic growth as described above. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, currency fluctuations resulted in approximately $2.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact on our Americas adjusted EBITDA primarily due to the generally stronger U.S. dollar relative to the Brazilian real and Canadian dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. EMEA Adjusted EBITDA. The increase in our EMEA adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to higher revenues as result of our IBX data center expansion activity and organic growth as described above, partially offset by higher adjusted operating expenses as a percentage of revenues primarily attributable to higher cost of revenues, utilities costs and compensation costs, including general salaries, bonuses and headcount growth to support our growth. During the three months ended March 31, 2014, currency fluctuations resulted in approximately $8.2 million of net favorable foreign currency impact to our EMEA adjusted EBITDA primarily due to generally weaker U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and British pound during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. 38 Table of Contents Asia-Pacific Adjusted EBITDA. Our Asia-Pacific adjusted EBITDA did not materially change during the three months ended March 31, 2014 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013. The U.S. dollar was generally stronger relative to the Australian dollar, Japanese yen and Singapore dollar compared to the three months ended March 31, 2013, resulting in approximately $2.9 million of net unfavorable foreign currency impact to our Asia-Pacific adjusted EBITDA during the three months ended March 31, 2014 when compared to average exchange rates of the three months ended March 31, 2013. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We provide all information required in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but we believe that evaluating our ongoing operating results may be difficult if limited to reviewing only GAAP financial measures. Accordingly, we use non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our operations. Legislative and regulatory requirements encourage the use of and emphasis on GAAP financial metrics and require companies to explain why non-GAAP financial metrics are relevant to management and investors. Adjusted EBITDA We use adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our operations and as a metric in the determination of employees annual bonuses and vesting of restricted stock units that have both a service and performance condition. In presenting adjusted EBITDA, we exclude certain items that we believe are not good indicators of our current or future operating performance. These items are depreciation, amortization, accretion of asset retirement obligations and accrued restructuring charges, stock-based compensation, restructuring charges, impairment charges and acquisition costs. We exclude these items in order for our lenders, investors, and industry analysts, who review and report on us, to better evaluate our operating performance and cash spending levels relative to our industry sector and competitors. For example, we exclude depreciation expense as these charges primarily relate to the initial construction costs of our IBX data centers and do not reflect our current or future cash spending levels to support our business. Our IBX data centers are long-lived assets and have an economic life greater than 10 years. The construction costs of our IBX data centers do not recur and future capital expenditures remain minor relative to our initial investment. This is a trend we expect to continue. In addition, depreciation is also based on the estimated useful lives of our IBX data centers. These estimates could vary from actual performance of the asset, are based on historical costs incurred to build out our IBX data centers and are not indicative of current or expected future capital expenditures. Therefore, we exclude depreciation from our operating results when evaluating our operations. In addition, in presenting the non-GAAP financial measures, we exclude amortization expense related to certain intangible assets, as it represents a cost that may not recur and is not a good indicator of our current or future operating performance. We exclude accretion expense, both as it relates to asset retirement obligations as well as accrued restructuring charge liabilities, as these expenses represent costs which we believe are not meaningful in evaluating our current operations. We exclude stock-based compensation expense as it primarily represents expense attributed to equity awards that have no current or future cash obligations. As such, we, and many investors and analysts, exclude this stock-based compensation expense when assessing the cash generating performance of our operations. We also exclude restructuring charges from our non-GAAP financial measures. The restructuring charges relate to our decisions to exit leases for excess space adjacent to several of our IBX data centers, which we did not intend to build out, or our decision to reverse such restructuring charges. We also exclude impairment charges related to certain long-lived assets. The impairment charges are related to expense recognized whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of long-lived assets are not recoverable. Finally, we exclude acquisition costs from our non-GAAP financial measures. The acquisition costs relate to costs we incur in connection with business combinations. Management believes such items as restructuring charges, impairment charges and acquisition costs are non-core transactions; however, these types of costs will or may occur in future periods. 39 Table of Contents Our management does not itself, nor does it suggest that investors should, consider such non-GAAP financial measures in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. However, we have presented such non-GAAP financial measures to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate our operating results in a manner that focuses on what management believes to be our core, ongoing business operations. We believe that the inclusion of this non-GAAP financial measure provides consistency and comparability with past reports and provides a better understanding of the overall performance of the business and its ability to perform in subsequent periods. We believe that if we did not provide such non-GAAP financial information, investors would not have all the necessary data to analyze Equinix effectively. Investors should note, however, that the non-GAAP financial measures used by us may not be the same non-GAAP financial measures, and may not be calculated in the same manner, as those of other companies. In addition, whenever we use non-GAAP financial measures, we provide a reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measure to the most closely applicable GAAP financial measure. Investors are encouraged to review the related GAAP financial measures and the reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We define adjusted EBITDA as income or loss from operations plus depreciation, amortization, accretion, stock-based compensation expense, restructuring charges, impairment charges and acquisition costs as presented below (in thousands): Three months ended March 31, 2014 2013 Income from operations $ 121,612 $ 104,787 Depreciation, amortization and accretion expense 113,610 108,603 Stock-based compensation expense 24,981 23,836 Acquisitions costs 185 3,662 Adjusted EBITDA $ 260,388 $ 240,888 Our adjusted EBITDA results have improved each year and in each region in total dollars due to the improved operating results discussed earlier in Results of Operations, as well as due to the nature of our business model which consists of a recurring revenue stream and a cost structure which has a large base that is fixed in nature as discussed earlier in Overview. Although we have also been investing in our future growth as described above (e.g. through additional IBX data center expansions, acquisitions and increased investments in sales and marketing expenses), we believe that our adjusted EBITDA results will continue to improve in future periods as we continue to grow our business. Constant Currency Presentation Our revenues and certain operating expenses (cost of revenues, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses) from our international operations have represented and will continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenues and certain operating expenses. As a result, our revenues and certain operating expenses have been and will continue to be affected by changes in the U.S. dollar against major international currencies such as the Brazilian real, British pound, Canadian dollar, Euro, Swiss franc, Australian dollar, Hong Kong dollar, Japanese yen, Singapore dollar and United Arab Emirates dirham. In order to provide a framework for assessing how each of our business segments performed excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present period-over-period percentage changes in our revenues and certain operating expenses on a constant currency basis in addition to the historical amounts as reported. Presenting constant currency results of operations is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as an alternative to GAAP results of operations. However, we have presented this non-GAAP financial measure to provide investors with an additional tool to evaluate our operating results. To present this information, our current and comparative prior period revenues and certain operating expenses from entities with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are converted into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect for the comparable prior period rather than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective periods (i.e. average rates in effect for the three months ended March 31, 2013 are used as exchange rates for the three months ended March 31, 2014 when comparing the three months ended March 31, 2014 with the three months ended March 31, 2013). 40 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2014, our total indebtedness was comprised of (i) convertible debt principal totaling $769.7 million from our 3.00% convertible subordinated notes and our 4.75% convertible subordinated notes (gross of discount) and (ii) non-convertible debt and financing obligations totaling $3.6 billion consisting of (a) $2.3 billion of principal from our 7.00%, 5.375% and 4.875% senior notes, (b) $245.9 million of principal from our mortgage and loans payable and (c) $1.1 billion from our capital lease and other financing obligations. We believe we have sufficient cash, coupled with anticipated cash generated from operating activities, to meet our operating requirements, including repayment of the current portion of our debt as it becomes due, payment of tax liabilities related to the decision to convert to a REIT (see below) and completion of our publicly-announced expansion projects. As of March 31, 2014, we had $1.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, of which approximately $796.0 million was held in the U.S. We believe that our current expansion activities in the U.S. can be funded with our U.S.-based cash and cash equivalents and investments. Besides our investment portfolio, additional liquidity available to us from the $550.0 million revolving credit facility that forms part of our $750.0 million credit facility, referred to as the U.S. financing, any further financing activities we may pursue, and customer collections are our primary source of cash. While we believe we have a strong customer base and have continued to experience relatively strong collections, if the current market conditions were to deteriorate, some of our customers may have difficulty paying us and we may experience increased churn in our customer base, including reductions in their commitments to us, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity. As of March 31, 2014, we had 21 irrevocable letters of credit totaling $34.6 million issued and outstanding under the U.S. revolving credit line; as a result, we had a total of approximately $515.4 million of additional liquidity available to us under the U.S. revolving credit line. While we believe we have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to meet our current operating requirements and to complete our publicly-announced IBX data center expansion plans, we may pursue additional expansion opportunities, primarily the build out of new IBX data centers, in certain of our existing markets which are at or near capacity within the next year, as well as potential acquisitions, and have also announced our planned conversion to a REIT (see below). While we expect to fund these plans with our existing resources, additional financing, either debt or equity, may be required to pursue certain new or unannounced additional plans, including acquisitions. However, if current market conditions were to deteriorate, we may be unable to secure additional financing or any such additional financing may only be available to us on unfavorable terms. An inability to pursue additional expansion opportunities will have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain our desired level of revenue growth in future periods. Impact of REIT Conversion We currently estimate that we will incur approximately $75.0 to $85.0 million in costs to support the REIT conversion, of which $47.8 million has been incurred to date, in addition to related tax liabilities associated with a change in our methods of depreciating and amortizing various data center assets for tax purposes from our prior methods to current methods that are more consistent with the characterization of such assets as real property for REIT purposes. The total recapture of depreciation and amortization expenses across all relevant assets is expected to result in federal and state tax liability of approximately $360.0 to $380.0 million, which amount became and is generally payable over a four-year period starting in 2012 even if we abandon the REIT conversion for any reason, including failure to obtain a favorable PLR response. To date, we have settled $192.9 million of the estimated federal and state tax liability related to the recapture of depreciation and amortization expenses. Prior to the decision to convert to a REIT, our balance sheet reflected our income tax liability as a non-current deferred tax liability. As a result of the decision to convert to a REIT, our non-current tax liability has been and will continue to be gradually and proportionally reclassified from non-current to current over the four-year period, which started in the third quarter of 2012. The current liability reflects the tax liability that relates to additional taxable income expected to be recognized within the twelve-month period from the date of the balance sheet. If the REIT conversion is successful, we also expect to incur an additional $5.0 to $10.0 million in annual compliance costs in future years. We expect to pay between $145.0 to $200.0 million in cash taxes during 2014 which includes taxes on our operations and any tax impacts required by our plan to convert to a REIT. 41 Table of Contents In accordance with tax rules applicable to REIT conversions, we expect to issue special distributions to our stockholders of undistributed accumulated E&P of approximately $700.0 million to $1.1 billion, which we expect to pay out in a combination of up to 20% in cash and at least 80% in the form of our common stock. The estimated E&P distribution may change due to potential changes in certain factors impacting the calculations, such as finalization of the 2013 E&P amounts, the actual financial year 2014 performance of the entities to be included in the REIT structure and the impact of any other transactions we may undertake during the fiscal year. We expect to make the E&P distribution only after receiving a favorable PLR from the IRS, obtaining Board of Directors approval and completion of other necessary REIT conversion actions. The Company anticipates making an E&P distribution before 2015 with the balance distributed in 2015. In addition, following the completion of the REIT conversion, we intend to declare regular distributions to our stockholders. Sources and Uses of Cash Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 171,718 $ 84,181 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 98,885 (1,142,540 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (37,282 ) 1,496,760 Operating Activitie s. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to improved operating results, favorable working capital activities such as decreased payments of certain accounts payable, accrued expenses and interest and a reduction in excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by an increase in income tax payments. Although our collections remain strong, it is possible for some large customer receivables that were anticipated to be collected in one quarter to slip to the next quarter. For example, some large customer receivables that were anticipated to be collected in March 2014 were instead collected in April 2014, which negatively impacted cash flows from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014. We expect that we will continue to generate cash from our operating activities during the remainder of 2014 and beyond. Investing Activities. The net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was primarily due to $315.1 million of sales and maturities of investments, partially offset by $93.4 million of purchases of investments, $105.9 million of capital expenditures primarily as a result of expansion activity and $16.8 million for the purchase of a plot of land in Melbourne, Australia. The net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to the deposit of $836.4 million of proceeds from the senior notes offering in March 2013 into a restricted cash account for the redemption of the 8.125% senior notes, $296.5 million of purchases of investments and $75.7 million of capital expenditures primarily as a result of expansion activity. During 2014, we expect that our IBX expansion construction activity will be similar to our 2013 levels. However, if the opportunity to expand is greater than planned and we have sufficient funding to increase the expansion opportunities available to us, we may increase the level of capital expenditures to support this growth as well as pursue additional acquisitions or joint ventures. 42 Table of Contents In April 2014, we, along with Riverwood Capital L.P. (Riverwood), and the other parties thereto, amended the shareholders agreement governing our investment in ALOG to extend the time period granted to us in 2014 to exercise our right to purchase Riverwoods interest in ALOG, along with the approximate 10% of ALOG owned by ALOG management, to May 31, 2014. Such purchase by us would result in us owning 100% of the outstanding shares of ALOG upon completion of the transaction. Should we not exercise our right by May 31, 2014, subsequent exercise periods begin on April 1 and end on April 30 of each of 2015 and 2016. As a result, we may complete the purchase some time in 2014. Financing Activities. The net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was primarily due to $47.1 million of purchases of treasury stock under our share repurchase program that was approved by our Board of Directors in December 2013 and $14.6 million of repayments of various long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations, partially offset by $14.4 million of proceeds from employee equity awards and $10.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was primarily due to $1.5 billion of proceeds from the senior notes offering in March 2013, $14.4 million of proceeds from employee equity awards and $19.0 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by $19.0 million of debt issuance costs and $17.6 million of repayments of various long-term debt and capital lease and other financing obligations. Going forward, we expect that our financing activities will consist primarily of repayment of our debt and additional financings needed to support expansion opportunities, additional acquisitions or joint ventures, or our conversion to a REIT. 43 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements We lease a majority of our IBX data centers and certain equipment under non-cancelable lease agreements expiring through 2053. The following represents our debt maturities, financings, leases and other contractual commitments as of March 31, 2014 (in thousands): 2014 (9 months) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Total Convertible debt (1) $ 395,986 $ $ 373,723 $ $ $ $ 769,709 Senior notes (2) 2,250,000 2,250,000 U.S. term loan (2) 30,000 40,000 40,000 20,000 130,000 ALOG financings (2) 12,615 16,399 20,182 13,879 7,724 70,799 ALOG loans payable (2) 357 428 428 428 72 1,713 Mortgage payable (2) 921 1,274 1,330 1,387 1,447 36,843 43,202 Other loans payable (2) 169 169 Interest (3) 168,089 157,577 145,998 134,323 132,836 441,351 1,180,174 Capital lease and other financing obligations (4) 70,090 107,287 112,444 113,601 118,099 1,348,500 1,870,021 Operating leases (5) 69,114 89,713 86,607 82,446 79,144 607,030 1,014,054 Other contractual commitments (6) 352,630 70,183 2,841 2,724 2,157 18,632 449,167 Asset retirement obligations (7) 1,525 2,026 554 7,900 3,278 44,915 60,198 ALOG acquisition contingent consideration (8) 1,998 2,021 3,583 7,602 Redeemable non-controlling interests 126,959 126,959 $ 1,230,096 $ 486,837 $ 787,690 $ 376,688 $ 345,113 $ 4,747,343 $ 7,973,767 (1) Represents principal only. As of March 31, 2014, had the holders of the 3.00% convertible subordinated notes due 2014 converted their notes, the 3.00% convertible subordinated notes would have been convertible into approximately 3.4 million shares of our common stock, which would have a total value of $623.9 million based on the closing price of our common stock on March 31, 2014. As of March 31, 2014, had the holders of the 4.75% convertible subordinated notes due 2016 converted their notes, the 4.75% convertible subordinated notes would have been convertible into approximately 4.4 million shares of our common stock, which would have a total value of $819.3 million based on the closing price of our common stock on March 31, 2014. (2) Represents principal only. (3) Represents interest on convertible debt, senior notes, U.S. term loan, ALOG financings, ALOG loans payable, mortgage payable and other loans payable based on their approximate interest rates as of March 31, 2014. (4) Excludes any subrental income. (5) Represents minimum operating lease payments, excluding potential lease renewals. (6) Represents off-balance sheet arrangements. Other contractual commitments are described below. (7) Represents liability, net of future accretion expense. (8) Represents unaccrued ALOG acquisition contingent consideration, subject to reduction for any post-closing balance sheet adjustments and any claims for indemnification, and includes the portion of the contingent consideration that will be funded by Riverwood Capital L.P., who has an indirect, non-controlling equity interest in ALOG. As of March 31, 2014, we accrued approximately $611 of ALOG acquisition contingent consideration. In connection with certain of our leases and other contracts requiring deposits, we entered into 21 irrevocable letters of credit totaling $34.6 million under the senior revolving credit line. These letters of credit were provided in lieu of cash deposits under the senior revolving credit line. If the landlords for these IBX leases decide to draw down on these letters of credit triggered by an event of default under the lease, we will be required to fund these letters of credit either through cash collateral or borrowing under the senior revolving credit line. These contingent commitments are not reflected in the table above. We had accrued liabilities related to uncertain tax positions totaling approximately $28.3 million as of March 31, 2014. These liabilities, which are reflected on our balance sheet, are not reflected in the table above since it is unclear when these liabilities will be paid. 44 Table of Contents Primarily as a result of our various IBX data center expansion projects, as of March 31, 2014, we were contractually committed for $240.1 million of unaccrued capital expenditures, primarily for IBX equipment not yet delivered and labor not yet provided in connection with the work necessary to complete construction and open these IBX data centers prior to making them available to customers for installation. This amount, which is expected to be paid during the remainder of 2014 and thereafter, is reflected in the table above as other contractual commitments. We had other non-capital purchase commitments in place as of March 31, 2014, such as commitments to purchase power in select locations and other open purchase orders, which contractually bind us for goods or services to be delivered or provided during 2013 and beyond. Such other purchase commitments as of March 31, 2014, which total $209.1 million, are also reflected in the table above as other contractual commitments. In addition, although we are not contractually obligated to do so, we expect to incur additional capital expenditures of approximately $200.0 million to $240.0 million, in addition to the $240.1 million in contractual commitments discussed above as of March 31, 2014, in our various IBX data center expansion projects during 2014 and thereafter in order to complete the work needed to open these IBX data centers. These non-contractual capital expenditures are not reflected in the table above. If we so choose, whether due to economic factors or other considerations, we could delay these non-contractual capital expenditure commitments to preserve liquidity. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Equinixs financial statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. These estimates and assumptions are affected by managements application of accounting policies. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments. Critical accounting policies for Equinix that affect our more significant judgment and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements include accounting for income taxes, accounting for business combinations, accounting for impairment of goodwill and accounting for property, plant and equipment, which are discussed in more detail under the caption Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in Part II Item 7, of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.