Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Operating and Financial Metrics for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: active buyer, active seller, Adjusted EBITDA, GMS, international GMS, mobile visits and mobile GMS. NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include information related to our possible or assumed future results of operations and expenses, our outlook, our mission, business strategies and plans, business environment, market size, product capabilities and release timing and future growth. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, seeks, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those risks include those described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report. Given these uncertainties, you should read this report in its entirety and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements made in this report. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this report may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements represent our beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business. Overview Etsy offers markets, services and technology that empower creative entrepreneurs and shape a positive future for business. Our mission is to reimagine commerce in ways that build a more fulfilling and lasting world. As of December 31, 2016, our platform connected 1.7 million active Etsy sellers and 28.6 million active Etsy buyers, in nearly every country in the world. We believe we are creating a new economy, which we call the Etsy Economy. The Etsy Economy is where creative entrepreneurs find meaningful work and access to both global and local markets for their goods, and where thoughtful consumers discover and buy unique goods and build connections with the people who sell them. Our community is made up of these creative entrepreneurs and thoughtful consumers as well as the Etsy employees who maintain our platform and build innovative technology, the retailers who participate in our Etsy Wholesale offering, the production partners who offer manufacturing assistance to Etsy sellers and the shareholders who have invested in our commitment to our mission. Supporting creative entrepreneurs is the heart and soul of Etsy. We have a seller-aligned business model: we make money when our Etsy sellers make money, so we continue to invest in building the platform they depend on. Our markets provide creative entrepreneurs with access to thoughtful consumers around the world. Buyers come to Etsy.com to find what they are looking for among nearly 45 million unique items across more than 50 retail categories. We also offer a wide range of Seller Services and tools that are specifically designed to help creative entrepreneurs start, manage and scale their businesses. In 2016 , Etsy sellers generated Gross Merchandise Sales (GMS) of $2.8 billion , of which approximately 48% came from purchases made on mobile devices. We are a global company and 30.4% of our 2016 GMS came from an Etsy seller or an Etsy buyer outside of the United States. Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of market activities and the Seller Services we provide to Etsy sellers to help them start, manage and scale their businesses. Our largest market is Etsy.com. In 2017, we plan to launch a dedicated craft supplies market called Etsy Studio. We also own A Little Market, or ALM, a handmade and supplies market for sellers and buyers in France. Markets revenue is primarily made up of two components: the 3.5% transaction fee an Etsy seller pays for each completed transaction on Etsy.com and the $0.20 listing fee she pays for each item she lists on Etsy.com. Seller Services revenue includes the fees Etsy sellers pay us for services, which include Direct Checkout, our payment processing service; Promoted Listings, our ad service for prominent placement in on-site search results; Shipping Labels, which allow Etsy sellers to directly purchase shipping labels through our platform; and Pattern by Etsy, launched in April 2016, which enables Etsy sellers to easily create their own custom website. Other revenue typically includes revenue generated from commercial partnerships. Etsy was founded in June 2005 in Brooklyn, New York. On April 21, 2015, we completed our initial public offering (the IPO) and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq) under the symbol ETSY. Values and Impact At Etsy, values are not a nice-to-have; theyre an integral part of how we do business. We work hard to ensure that our values guide our decision making and are integrated into every aspect of our business and operations. Our values help drive our business forward as a force for good and help us build the Etsy Economy. We believe that a growing number of consumers consider the environmental and social impact of their purchases. We also believe that consumers will demand more of the businesses they support and that the companies best positioned to succeed will build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet and profit. As such, we believe that values and impact alignment is critical to growing our business sustainably and positioning us for success in the future. In 2016, we formed our Values Aligned Business (VAB) team, whose mandate is to ensure that Etsys mission, values and impact goals are embedded in all aspects of our culture, products, services, business and leadership. The VAB team is conducting a review process to ensure that our values continue to live up to these ideals. We are committed to the spirit of our 1 Table of Contents current values as we focus on ways to deepen our impact and continue to: incorporate and build human connection in commerce, act with courage, serve our community, be accountable and drive diversity and inclusion. We are a mindful, transparent and humane business. We believe that business interests and social and environmental responsibility are interwoven and aligned and that the power of business should be used to strengthen communities and empower people. To demonstrate our commitment, we monitor our efforts to minimize the harm and maximize the benefit that we have on people and the planet and then publish an annual Progress Report to publicly report our results. We plan and build for the long term. We want to build a company that lasts, and we plan to measure our success in years and decades. Etsy sellers in particular depend on us and on our platform to grow their businesses, so we will strive to make decisions that are best for the long-term health of our ecosystem. Our ecosystem consists of Etsy and the people and communities around the world who benefit from our platform. We value craftsmanship in all we make. Craftsmanship is the marriage of skill and passion. We are an engineering-driven company, and we think of our code as craft: we are makers of the products and services that members of our community use, and we approach the work we do with the same care and inspiration as do Etsy sellers. We believe fun should be part of everything we do. Our mission includes fostering a world in which personal fulfillment and purpose is a key element of success. We believe that this way of working is connected and joyful. We keep it real, always. We have the courage and the will to do business in ways that are unconventional and impactful. When we believe that we are not being true to our values or our mission, we are not afraid to change course. We are also dedicated to creating a net positive environmental, social and economic impact through our business. For example, in 2016 we established our goal of running Etsy.com as a carbon neutral market. We took steps toward this aspiration with the launch of Etsy Solar, a program which helps our seller community in the United States go solar and creates carbon offsets for our Etsy.com market. We also committed to power our offices and data centers with 100% renewable electricity by 2020 and currently have onsite solar at our Brooklyn and Hudson (New York) offices. Our Community Our community includes Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, Etsy employees, our partners and investors. Etsy Sellers: Creative Entrepreneurs Etsy sellers join our community to participate in our vibrant markets to express their creativity and turn their passion into a business while connecting to thoughtful consumers around the world. As of December 31, 2016 , there were 1.7 million active sellers on our platform, 15.2% of which have been selling on Etsy.com for more than four years. Etsy Sellers 2 Table of Contents We support a diverse group of artists, makers, designers and collectors from around the worldfrom the solo artisan to the full-time jewelry maker with staff; from the antique furniture collector to the textile graphic designer partnering with a small-batch manufacturer. We survey our sellers every two years and in November 2016 , we conducted a survey of Etsy sellers who made a sale in the preceding 12 months. The 2016 seller survey, which included responses from 5,000 sellers, reveals a unique population of creative entrepreneurs who are building businesses on their own termsprioritizing flexibility, independence and creativity. Digital platforms and mobile devices make it increasingly easy for these entrepreneurs to reach a global audience and for them to conduct business whenever and from wherever they'd like. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants, and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. The 2016 seller survey showed some Etsy sellers are looking for extra pocket money, while others depend on their shops to support themselves and their families. According to our 2016 seller survey, among Etsy sellers: 87% identify as women; 73% consider their Etsy shop to be a business; 33% use their creative business as their sole occupation; 97% run their shops from their homes; 81% aspire to grow their sales in the future; and 62% started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income. Etsy Buyers: Thoughtful Consumers Etsy buyers visit Etsy.com to discover a broad selection of unique goods that are hard to find elsewhere, with items ranging from a $5 ornament, to a $50 hand-knit sweater, to a $2,000 custom-made table. In a 2016 survey of Etsy.com buyers, 91% agreed that Etsy offers products they cannot find elsewhere. We believe many Etsy buyers are motivated by more than simply price and convenience; we believe they also value craftsmanship, artistry, uniqueness, authenticity and sustainability. In our markets, Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items, bespoke goods or unique and unexpected craft supplies from Etsy sellers. By buying in our markets, Etsy buyers are supporting creative entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. As of December 31, 2016 , there were 28.6 million active buyers on our platform. Etsy Employees We too are members of our community. Whether drafting our policies, talking with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in our online forums, enhancing search functionality to help buyers better find what they're looking for or building new services and tools that help sellers start, manage and scale their businesses, our employees create genuine and lasting connections in our community. Etsy employees build personal relationships with Etsy sellers by visiting their shops, inviting them to our offices for lunch or celebrating with them at in-person events. In addition, our employees, including management, are encouraged to perform support rotations to foster connections with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and to help us better understand their needs. We pride ourselves on our values-based and purpose-driven work culture. We focus on maximizing our employees professional and personal well-being. We evaluate employee performance on traditional business metrics and on adherence to our mission and values. We believe employee engagement comes from fulfilling work focused on serving the needs of our sellers and buyers and from ample personal and professional growth opportunities. We invest heavily in employee development by offering coaching, skills workshops and training. We actively encourage personal education through arts and crafts workshops and employee-taught classes called Etsy School, covering subjects ranging from screen printing to Python programming. We also offer our employees paid time off to volunteer so that they can support the causes and organizations they are passionate about. In 2016, we introduced a 26-week gender-blind parental leave policy that is available to all Etsy employees globally. Through this policy we aim to support and enable parents to play equal roles in building successful companies and nurturing their families. Fortune magazine has recognized us as a great place to work every year since 2013. Etsy engineering is widely known for its thought-leading approaches to software development as well as its unique engineering culture. Our engineering team coined the phrase Code as Craft to describe our love for building software and our melding of 3 Table of Contents engineering discipline and individual craftsmanship. We believe our engineers have the skills, practices and experience needed to embrace the change the future inevitably brings. As of December 31, 2016 , we had 1,043 employees worldwide, with 648 in our offices in Brooklyn, New York. Of those employees, we had 319 in engineering, 124 in product, 187 in member operations, 276 in corporate and 137 in marketing. We believe that a diverse workforce makes us a better company, and we strive to create opportunities for underrepresented groups to join, thrive and advance at Etsy. For example, we proactively work and recruit to improve the gender balance at all levels of our company. As of December 31, 2016 , 56% of employees identified as female. As of December 31, 2016 , 58% of managers and 36% of product, engineering and technical operations employees identified as female. We are committed to improving the diversity within our workforce, and we publish an annual Progress Report that details our progress toward this goal. Our Partners Our community also includes retailers who participate in our Etsy Wholesale offering and production partners who assist Etsy sellers who want to scale their businesses through our Etsy Manufacturing offering. Within Etsy Wholesale, retailers, nearly all of which are local boutiques, use our platform to connect directly with Etsy sellers and to add unique and distinctive items to their store offerings. As of December 31, 2016 , there were 25,000 retailers on the platform. Etsy Manufacturing helps Etsy sellers who want to grow their business and connect directly with production partners. For example, an Etsy seller might work with a cut-and-sew shop to make clothes she has designed, a casting house that casts wax models for her jewelry designs or a digital printer that prints her photographs on household items. Investors We consider investors important stakeholders in our business. We strive to maintain transparent and open communications with the investment community, as appropriate, and appreciate those who support and believe in our long-term mission to reimagine commerce. Our Opportunity We believe that the nature of commerce is changing: people are choosing to purchase goods online or from a mobile device, consumers are looking for unique items rather than mass produced goods and more people than ever are seeking employment outside of the traditional nine-to-five workplace. We believe that these trends create a strong, long-term market opportunity for Etsy allowing us to continue to expand our markets globally by attracting buyers who want something different than a conventional, mass-produced retail shopping experience and sellers who are engaging in their creative passion, working for themselves and defining success on their own terms. The retail landscape continues to change as more people around the world choose to purchase goods online or from a mobile device. eMarketer, a market research company, estimated that worldwide retail ecommerce sales were $2 trillion in 2016, up from $1.5 trillion in 2015. They expect worldwide retail ecommerce to generate double-digit growth each year through 2020, and sales to reach $4 trillion by the end of the four-year period. (Source: eMarketer - Worldwide Retail Ecommerce Sales: The eMarketer Forecast for 2016.) Whereas most large retailers emphasize efficiency and scale and pressure their suppliers to reduce their costs in order to offer goods produced at volume at the lowest-possible prices, our approach to commerce is fundamentally different and based on human connections. We believe that many consumers want to purchase goods that are unique and that reflect their personality and style, not simply mass-produced, generic goods. Finding these goods can be difficult, as markets for such goods have historically been highly fragmented across boutiques, consignment stores and other venues and marketplaces. Etsy sellers offer goods in over 50 retail categories, including furniture, jewelry, stationery, clothing, home goods, craft supplies and vintage items. Two of our largest opportunities are to raise awareness among potential and existing buyers about the breadth and depth of items available on Etsy.com and to encourage them to make more frequent purchases. Given the more than 50 retail categories in which Etsy sellers have offerings, we believe we can establish Etsy.com as a shopping destination not just for gifts and special occasions, but also for goods buyers use in their everyday lives. We also believe that this perception shift and our efforts to make the shopping experience easier for Etsy buyers through technological enhancements to our capabilities in areas such as search and recommendations will encourage buyers to make more frequent purchases in our markets. In addition, we believe that our new market, Etsy Studio, will help us serve our craft supplies sellers better and reach a broader audience of craft supplies buyers around the world. According to the Association for Creative Industries, creative products is an approximately 4 Table of Contents $44 billion market in the United States. However, the vast majority of sales currently take place offline (Source: Association for Creative Industries - 2016 Creative Products Size of the Industry Study.) Etsy Studio offers a differentiated buyer experience that combines shopping and inspiration in one destination, which we believe creates a unique online opportunity for Etsy within this large addressable market. The nature of work also continues to shift and more people than ever are choosing employment outside of traditional nine-to-five jobs. According to a McKinsey Global Institute study (the Mckinsey Study), 20-30% of the working-age population, or up to 162 million people, currently engage in independent work in the U.S. and E.U.-15. The McKinsey Study notes that 30-45% of the working-age population in these countries say they would like to earn either primary or supplemental income through independent work and consider themselves at least somewhat likely to pursue the option, implying the number of independent workers in the U.S. and the E.U.-15 could grow to up to 267 million. (Source: McKinsey Global Institute - Independent work: Choice, Necessity, and the Gig Economy.) We believe that our base of Etsy sellers reflects these changing dynamics. Active sellers on Etsy grew at 18% CAGR between 2013 and 2016 as more and more people chose to start a business. Additionally, our 2016 seller survey found that 33% of sellers in our markets have their creative business as their sole occupation, compared to 30% in our 2014 seller survey, reflecting an increasing number of people that are choosing to focus on independent work full time. As more and more people around the world choose to pursue their passions, we are focused on providing creative entrepreneurs with a global base of millions of buyers and a cohesive suite of services and tools specifically designed to support them as they start, manage and scale their businesses. Our Platform Etsy leverages technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Our platform includes our markets, our services and our technology, which help foster a loyal, engaged community of sellers and buyers. Our commitment to transparency and integrity underpins our platform and establishes trust within our markets and our community. Key Components of Our Platform Our Markets Our markets offer an engaging way for an Etsy buyer to find millions of unique handmade and vintage goods as well as craft supplies. Launched in 2005, Etsy.com is our largest market and it supports people buying and selling in nearly every country in the world. It offers buyers nearly 45 million unique listings of handmade and vintage goods and craft supplies. We believe that that the breadth and depth of the items available help to position Etsy.com as a go-to shopping destination for more than just special occasions. We plan to launch Etsy Studio in 2017, which will serve as a dedicated craft supplies market. We believe our ability to leverage our prior investments in Etsy.com, including search technology, payments, advertising and shipping, to launch and scale Etsy Studio will give us a competitive advantage in this market and any other markets we may launch. We also own ALM, a handmade and supplies market for sellers and buyers in France. To help Etsy buyers discover and purchase items that they love, we focus on providing a number of tools and features within our Etsy.com market: Personalized search and discovery. Our platform is engineered to provide a personalized experience to each Etsy buyer, adjusting in real time based on her interactions within it. An Etsy buyer may search for an item using our search tool bar and filter the results by color, price, location or other characteristics. Additionally, she may browse through items, creating an activity feed by favoriting items that catch her eye and by following shops and tastemakers. We glean insights from Etsy buyers purchases and other interactions within our platform through our machine learning 5 Table of Contents algorithms, cookies and other techniques. Knowing and understanding each buyer's individual tastes and interests allows us to personalize each experience, whether a buyer comes to simply browse our site or app or to search for specific items. Improvements that we made to search in 2015 enable buyers to more easily browse, filter for and buy that perfect item, particularly on a mobile device, even when they do not have a specific item in mind. In 2016, we made additional enhancements to search and acquired Blackbird Technologies, Inc., or Blackbird, a privately-held company that had developed proprietary machine learning technology to deliver superior search relevance and recommendations. We believe we have several opportunities to further enhance our search capabilities and plan to leverage our technology to power a range of search capabilities including more personalized search, ranking, spelling correction and predictive type-ahead to deliver a personalized shopping experience. Connected experience across all devices mobile and desktop. We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and to provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience no matter how they come to Etsy. Our Etsy.com website and iOS and Android mobile apps include search and discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features. We offer a connected experience through each channel, desktop, mobile web, and mobile app, ensuring that no matter what device she uses she will have the best possible experience. To optimize our mobile experience, we use deep linking to automatically transition Etsy buyers from mobile web to the mobile app when they encounter a link to an Etsy shop or item. Buyers can sign-up and sign-in to Etsy through Facebook and Google and our payment and digital wallet options include Apple Pay, Google Wallet and others. Our mobile apps have been downloaded approximately 41 million times as of December 31, 2016 . Global reach combined with local scale . There are people using our platform to buy and sell in nearly every country in the world. Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers to connect across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, product ads, and conversations between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers. Our payments platform makes it easy for Etsy sellers to offer Etsy buyers a wide range of payment options. In addition to providing buyers with access to global inventory, we are also building local communities and fostering local connections. For example, our localized search feature, which is available in the U.K., Australia, France, and Germany, surfaces local items more prominently in search results so that buyers can easily connect with and purchase from sellers within their respective countries. In 2016 , 33.3% of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and 30.4% of our GMS involved an Etsy seller or Etsy buyer outside of the United States. Direct communication between sellers and buyers. We believe human connection is central to Etsy buyers engagement. Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers use the Conversations tool on our platform to communicate, person to person, about their orders, to request custom goods or personalization of goods or simply to have a conversation about the product or the process. In 2016 , 56% of our active buyers sent or received a conversation and 67% of active sellers sent or received a conversation using our Conversations tool. In addition to our Conversations tool, we encourage engagement between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers in a variety of ways, whether it be through sharing reviews on social media or connecting offline through the Etsy Local feature on our mobile app. 6 Table of Contents Our Services Our platform makes it easy for an Etsy seller to open a shop and operate her business. According to our 2016 seller survey, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends almost another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, marketing, shipping, customer service and accounting. How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time We are creating a cohesive platform of Seller Services and tools that help Etsy sellers start, manage and scale their businesses. Our services platform includes the following: Seller Services. We offer a variety of services to help Etsy sellers build their personal brands, engage potential customers and complete transactions. We currently have four Seller Services, all of which were developed in-house: Direct Checkout. Direct Checkout allows Etsy sellers to accept various forms of payment such as credit cards, debit cards, PayPal, Google Wallet, Apple Pay and Etsy Gift Cards. Once an Etsy buyer makes payment, the Etsy seller receives the funds in her own bank account and in her local currency. As of December 31, 2016 , Direct Checkout was available in 36 countries and 12 currencies, compared to 22 countries and 10 currencies as of December 31, 2015. During 2016 , 45.5% of active sellers used Direct Checkout. Promoted Listings. Promoted Listings enables Etsy sellers to pay a cost-per-click based fee to feature and promote their goods in search results generated by Etsy buyers on our platform. This service allows Etsy sellers to target Etsy buyers who are specifically searching for goods similar to those she offers for sale. During 2016 , 15.9% of active sellers used Promoted Listings. Shipping Labels. Shipping Labels allows Etsy sellers to purchase United States Postal Service, FedEx and Canada Post shipping labels through our platform with the appropriate amount of postage. The ability to print shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship goods to Etsy buyers globally. During 2016 , 26.3% of active sellers in the United States and Canada used Shipping Labels. Pattern by Etsy. With Pattern, Etsy sellers can create their own custom websites in minutes through our platform. Pattern imports listings and content from Etsy shops, syncs inventory and orders and utilizes our Direct Checkout and Shipping Label services. Since launching the service in April 2016, we have continued to introduce new features and enhancements, including additional layouts and themes, new search and image display options, guest checkout functionality and the ability for Pattern users to host a blog or send newsletters. Since the launch, 2.5% of active sellers used Pattern (includes eight months of paid seller activity). Use of Seller Services in 2016 7 Table of Contents Seller Tools. In addition to our paid Seller Services, we provide a wide range of tools and features to support Etsy sellers run the administrative side of their businesses, including marketing and taxes. For example, our Google Shopping tool, which is complementary to our Promoted Listings service and the Google advertising we do on behalf of Etsy sellers, enables Etsy sellers to reach a broader audience by advertising their listings in Google search results. Through our partnership with Intuit, Etsy sellers in the United States and United Kingdom can simplify their accounting and bookkeeping by seamlessly exporting their Etsy.com sales and expenses to QuickBooks Self-Employed. To easily monitor orders and track sales and analyze visits and listings, Etsy sellers can use our online dashboard. Etsy sellers can also access analytics on the dashboard, on our website or on our Sell on Etsy mobile app. Of our 2016 active sellers, 50.6% used the Sell on Etsy mobile app in 2016 . In early 2017, we launched Shop Manager which will serve as a centralized hub for Etsy sellers to track orders, manage inventory, view metrics and statistics and have conversations with their customers across all of their Etsy shops. This tool makes it easier for creative entrepreneurs to run multi-channel businesses on Etsy and moves us closer to our long-term goal of supporting Etsy sellers wherever they choose to pursue commerce. Education. We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to start, manage and scale their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums and insights from Etsy.com support teams. In addition to our own educational resources, Etsy sellers connect through self-organized Etsy Teams to build supportive personal relationships with other Etsy Sellers, collaborate, educate and support each other as they build their independent creative businesses. Our Technology Our widely respected engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages and devices. Our team is at the forefront of the software engineering practice of continuous deployment. We update the code that runs the Etsy website as often as every 20 minutes, and deploy code to various systems as often as 70 times per day. To enhance the performance of our platform, we collect and analyze a large volume of data. For example, we currently capture more than one billion user-generated events every day to produce personalized recommendations, improve our search experience and utilize A/B test features on our site. Our use of machine learning algorithms creates an engaging shopping experience and also helps Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers connect across our platform. We apply proprietary machine learning to the search and discovery process, enabling shoppers to more easily browse, filter for and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Machine translation and machine learning also play an important role in making it easy for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to connect even if they dont speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy.com market into 10 languages and plan to translate listings on Etsy Studio into several key languages. Translating listings significantly increases the inventory available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience. We also translate conversations and reviews and, in 2016, began to apply machine translation to Promoted Listings. We are a mobile-first company, meaning mobile is integrated into everything that we do. In recent years, we have focused on expanding our mobile capabilities. We developed our Sell on Etsy mobile app to help the Etsy seller operate her shop and manage orders. Our mobile website and our Buy on Etsy mobile app for Etsy buyers, which we developed to keep Etsy buyers engaged wherever they are, include search, discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features, optimized for the mobile experience. For the year ended December 31, 2016 , approximately 64% of our visits and approximately 48% of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. This is a solid improvement compared with 2015 , during which 60% of our visits and 43% of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. We are focused on continuing to narrow the gap between mobile visits and mobile GMS. Our Passionate, Engaged and Loyal Etsy Sellers and Etsy Buyers Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are passionate, engaged and loyalnot only to us, but to each otherbuilding a strong community. Our active sellers and active buyers remain so for multiple years. For example, 32.3% of active sellers and 42.5% of active buyers as of December 31, 2012 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform and 31.5% of active sellers and 41.1% of active buyers as of December 31, 2013 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as of December 31, 2016 , 15.2% of active sellers 8 Table of Contents have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as of December 31, 2016 , 17.4% of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years. Repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In 2016 , approximately 41.0% of our active buyers made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months, up from 40.6% in 2015 . Unlike many other online commerce companies, the vast majority of visits come to Etsy from organic or direct sources. In 2016 , 88% of visits came to Etsy.com from direct, organic or email sources. A visit represents activity from a unique browser or mobile app. A visit ends after 30 minutes of inactivity. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers engage with each other often. In 2016 56% of our active buyers sent or received a conversation and 67% of active sellers sent or received a conversation using our Conversations tool. As of December 31, 2016 , approximately 20.1% of active sellers belong to a self-organized Etsy Team, developing supportive personal relationships with other Etsy sellers as they build their independent creative businesses. Currently, nearly 14,000 Etsy Teams have formed around the world. Ensuring that buyers can find and purchase the exact items they are looking for each time they come to Etsy is an important part of fostering engagement and loyalty. In 2016 , conversion rates increased across desktop, mobile web and mobile app compared to 2015 , demonstrating our ability to continuously optimize the shopping experience. The passion and loyalty demonstrated by Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers is the foundation for the continued growth and current scale of our platform. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Growth and Retention of Active Sellers and Active Buyers for more information. Active Buyers by Purchase Type 9 Table of Contents Visits Contribution by Source Type Commitment to Integrity and Transparency Members of our community rely on us to maintain trusted markets. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, Etsy Wholesale partners and production partners participating on our platform. Most fundamentally, we require that goods listed in our markets be handmade, vintage or craft supplies. In 2017, we clarified our policies on Etsy.com to make it easier for sellers and buyers around the world to understand how we define handmade. Transparency within our community helps to support our trustworthiness. For example, we publish an annual Progress Report that details progress toward our ideals and shares our hopes for the years to come. We also publish an annual Transparency Report, which, among other things, describes the steps we take when items that do not meet our guidelines are listed on Etsy.com, or when listed items are alleged to infringe third party rights. In 2016, we closed 4,525 Etsy.com shops that were subject to repeat notices of intellectual property infringement and closed 263,315 Etsy.com accounts for non-IP policy violations. We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing unique goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent about themselves, their businesses and the goods they sell. We also have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. For example, our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms.We also recognize that sometimes transactions dont go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps and in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. The trustworthiness of Etsy.com and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business. 10 Table of Contents Our Strategy: The Path Ahead Our seller-aligned business model means that we succeed when our sellers succeed. We are focused on helping sellers grow their sales within our markets and building a cohesive services platform to help them start, manage and scale their businesses. Our Markets The power of human connection is central to the Etsy experience and we connect creative entrepreneurs to thoughtful consumers around the world. We continue to nurture Etsy.com and are also launching Etsy Studio to better serve craft supplies sellers and to broaden our reach to craft supplies buyers around the world. We want to create the best shopping experience for Etsy buyers. Our markets strategy is to expand our overall base of buyers and drive frequency with existing buyers. We plan to accomplish this strategy through three main initiatives: Raise brand awareness of Etsy.com as an everyday shopping destination: With nearly 45 million listings within Etsy.com, there are unique items available for nearly every personality, style, occasion and budget. We are investing in initiatives to shape perceptions and highlight the breadth and depth of items available. Over time, we believe that raising awareness of Etsy.com as a go-to shopping destination, not just for special occasions, will help us attract a larger audience and also encourage existing buyers to make more frequent purchases. We launched our first global brand marketing campaign, called Difference Makes Us, in September 2016 to showcase this positioning, and plan to increase this investment in marketing in the future. We also plan to invest in paid advertising and marketing campaigns to attract new craft supplies buyers to Etsy Studio in 2017. Make enhancements that encourage purchase frequency: We want to offer an engaging way for Etsy buyers to discover and purchase Etsy sellers unique goods. We believe that making enhancements to personalized product recommendations for Etsy buyers and helping them to better find the exact items they are looking for are our largest near-term opportunities. We are continuing our work to augment our existing capabilities within search and recommendation on Etsy.com. We also make regular updates to our platform to improve the shopping experience and strengthen Etsy buyer trust, such as further optimizing the mobile experience and our payments platform. We recently launched multi-shop checkout on Etsy.com, which gives Etsy buyers the ability to purchase items from more than one seller in a single transaction, and we plan to introduce guest checkout in 2017. We believe that all of these improvements together will support improving conversion rates and will ultimately enable us to increase buyer frequency on Etsy.com. Connect globally while continuing to scale locally: Our vision is global and local, and our platform supports Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers in nearly every country in the world. Cross-border transactions are the largest component of international GMS and we remain committed to reducing barriers such as language and currency so that sellers and buyers from different countries can easily connect and transact. We are also focused on building and deepening local Etsy communities around the world, each with its own ecosystem of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country grew approximately 47% in 2016 compared with 2015 , making it the fastest growing category of international GMS. We plan to continue to invest in local marketing and content and other locally relevant tools and enhancements around the world to encourage these connections. We formerly referred to initiatives within our markets strategy as Etsy Everyday and Build Local Marketplaces Globally. The above initiatives reflect these ongoing efforts, but have been refined to better capture our evolving business opportunities . 11 Table of Contents Our Services We continue to focus on offering high-impact services that enable Etsy sellers to start, manage and scale their businesses. We launched our first Seller Service in late 2011 and in 2016 Seller Services represented $200.9 million , 55.0% of our revenue, a 47.0% increase over 2015 . Seller Services revenue growth has been driven by service launches and enhancements that have allowed Etsy sellers to address the administrative tasks associated with running a business. For example, in 2016 , we increased the number of countries where Direct Checkout is available to 36 countries, up from 22 countries in 2015 . We also made FedEx and expedited United States Postal Service labels available through Shipping Labels, expanded the inventory available within Promoted Listings and launched our custom website service, Pattern. We are building a cohesive suite of services and tools specifically designed to help Etsy sellers start, manage and scale their businesses: Start: According to our 2016 seller survey, more than half of Etsy sellers choose our markets as the first place to start their creative business. By setting up a shop in our markets, an Etsy seller gains access to a global audience of 28.6 million active buyers looking for unique goods or craft supplies. We offer a wealth of educational resources and a variety of listing tools to make the process of starting as intuitive as possible. Additionally, our vibrant community, including our 14,000 Etsy Teams and active forums, serve as a unique source of support that new Etsy sellers can turn to for advice and encouragement when starting a creative business. Manage: We want to make it easier for Etsy sellers to run their businesses so that they can devote more time to making or designing their goods. We offer a wide range of services and tools that help Etsy sellers more effectively manage their business, from payments to shipping to accounting and taxes. For example, services and tools such as Direct Checkout, Shipping Labels and our partnership with Intuit all reduce the amount of time that a seller spends on time-consuming administrative tasks. Scale: We want sellers to come to Etsy not only to access our global community of 28.6 million active buyers, but also because we offer sales and marketing opportunities that help them reach their business goals. Both Pattern and Etsy Wholesale are sales channels that Etsy sellers can use to reach new audiences. Additionally, Promoted Listings and our Google Shopping tool serve as powerful marketing tools for Etsy sellers looking to raise their profile on and off Etsy.com. We will continue to build each of these offerings and look to expand our marketing offerings into a suite of marketing services and analytics tools that empower Etsy sellers to drive and measure the growth of their businesses. In 2017, we introduced Shop Manager, which enables Etsy sellers to access many of these tools and services along with all of their Etsy shops in one convenient place. We believe that this moves us closer to our long term goal of becoming the central hub for creative entrepreneurs and supporting them wherever they choose to pursue commerce. Competition We compete for the Etsy seller with both retailers and companies that sell software to small businesses. An Etsy seller can list her goods for sale with online retailers or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our markets or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for Etsy sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our markets and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of Etsy buyers, our Seller Services, our seller education resources and tools, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community and our values. We also compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for Etsy buyers based on the unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our markets, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, our reputation as trusted markets, our mobile apps, ease of payment and the availability and reliability of our platform. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, primarily including trade secret, copyright and trademark laws and to a lesser extent patent laws, in the United States and abroad, and we use confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements and other contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. While we have obtained or applied for patent protection for some of our intellectual property, we generally do not rely on patents as a principal means of protecting intellectual property. We file patents and register domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad. We also rely upon common law protection for certain trademarks. Circumstances beyond our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we operate, and changes in legal frameworks may impact the scope, enforceability and validity of rights. In addition, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our ability to compete and our operating results. Government Regulation As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, U.S. federal and state laws, E.U. directives and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on Etsy sellers and could subject us to significant liability for any failure to comply. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption and export control laws. Emerging Growth Company Status As of June 30, 2016, we had a public float of greater than $700 million and are therefore no longer considered an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582. Additionally, our SEC reports may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling (800) SEC-0330. Our SEC reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. For a summary of our financial information by geographic location, see Note 13Segment and Geographic Information in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding our product development expenditures in the last three fiscal years, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations . 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors . Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, our consolidated financial statements and related notes, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $29.9 million , $54.1 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. As of December 31, 2016 , we had an accumulated deficit of $116.3 million . We may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially as we hire additional employees, increase our marketing efforts, expand our operations and continue to invest in the development of our platform, including our Seller Services and tools and technological enhancements. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and our revenue may not increase sufficiently to offset these additional expenses. In addition, our revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including those described in these Risk Factors. Further, our revenue growth rate may continue to decelerate in the future for a number of reasons, including the gradual deceleration of our GMS growth rate. For further information about the rate of revenue and GMS growth, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Revenue . You should not rely on growth rates of prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results, as well as our key metrics, may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. These reasons include those described in these Risk Factors and the following: fluctuations in revenue generated from Etsy sellers on our platform, including as a result of the seasonality of market transactions and Etsy sellers use of Seller Services; the amount and timing of our operating expenses; our success in attracting and retaining Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers; our success in executing on our Markets and Seller Services strategies; the timing and success of new services and features we introduce; the impact of our investment in marketing; economic and market conditions, such as currency fluctuations and global events; disruptions or defects in our markets, such as privacy or data security breaches or other incidents that impact the reliability of our platform; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments; our ability to manage our existing business and future growth; and the impact of our revised global corporate structure that was implemented on January 1, 2015. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and key metrics may cause those results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our results could also cause a number of other problems. For example, analysts or investors might change their 14 Table of Contents models for valuing our common stock, we could experience short-term liquidity issues, our ability to retain or attract key personnel may diminish and other unanticipated issues may arise. In addition, we believe that our quarterly operating results and key metrics may vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. For example, our overall historical growth rate may have overshadowed the effect of seasonal variations on our historical operating results. These seasonal effects may become more pronounced over time, which could also cause our operating results and key metrics to fluctuate. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our growth depends on our ability to attract and retain an active and engaged community of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in attracting and retaining active sellers and active buyers. For example, our revenue is driven by the number of active sellers, seller engagement, the number of active buyers, buyer engagement and our ability to maintain trusted markets. We must continue to encourage Etsy sellers to list items for sale and use our Seller Services and encourage Etsy buyers to return and purchase items in our markets more frequently. We want to create the best shopping experience for Etsy buyers and are focused on making enhancements that encourage purchase frequency. We believe that many new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers find Etsy.com by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. If existing Etsy sellers are dissatisfied with their experience on our platform, they may stop listing items in our markets and using our Seller Services and may stop referring others to us. Likewise, if existing Etsy buyers do not find our platform appealing, whether because of a negative experience, lack of buyer-friendly features, declining interest in the nature of the goods offered by Etsy sellers or other factors, they may make fewer purchases and they may stop referring others to us. Under these circumstances, we may have difficulty attracting new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers without incurring additional marketing expense. Even if we are able to attract new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to replace the ones that we lose, they may not maintain the same level of activity, and the revenue generated from new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may not be as high as the revenue generated from the ones who leave our markets. If we are unable to retain existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and attract new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers who contribute to an active community, our growth prospects could be harmed and our business could be adversely affected. Additionally, the demand for the goods listed in our markets is dependent on consumer preferences which can change quickly and may differ across generations and cultures. If demand for the goods that Etsy sellers offer declines, we may not be able to attract and retain Etsy buyers and our business would be harmed. Trends in socially-conscious consumerism and buying locally could also shift or slow which would make it more difficult to attract new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. Our growth prospects would also be hampered if the shift to online and mobile commerce does not continue. The trustworthiness of our markets and the connections within our community are important to our success. If we are unable to maintain them, our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could suffer. We have built trusted markets that embody our values-based culture. Our reputation depends upon our Etsy sellers, their unique offerings and their adherence to our policies. We establish trust in our markets in a variety of ways. For example, our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, Etsy Wholesale partners and production partners participating on our platform. We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing unique goods from a small business that adheres to certain principles. Our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. We also have sophisticated tools to detect fraud and we strive to prohibit bad actors from using our platform. In addition, production partners who apply to join Etsy Manufacturing must commit to ethical expectations and to operating a safe and just workplace, with transparency and reliable customer service. Etsy's transparency with our community helps to support the trustworthiness of our markets. For example, we publish an annual Progress Report that details our progress toward our ideals and shares our goals for the years to come and we also release an annual Transparency Report, which, among other things, describes the steps we take when items that do not meet our guidelines are listed on our platform, or when listed items are alleged to infringe third party rights. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections among members of our community through our communication tools, seller stories on our website and our in-person events, which highlight personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories and use tools, 15 Table of Contents such as shop videos, to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. We also recognize that sometimes transactions dont go as planned. When that happens, our Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. We also encourage our employees to build meaningful connections with other members of our community. For example, we ask employees to perform support rotations to help foster connections with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and to help us better understand their needs. The trustworthiness of our markets and the connections among the members of our community are the cornerstones of our business. Many things could undermine these cornerstones, such as: complaints or negative publicity about us, our platform or our policies and guidelines, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; an inability to gain the trust of prospective buyers; disruptions or defects in our markets, such as privacy or data security breaches or other incidents that impact the reliability of our platform; lack of awareness of our policies; changes to our policies that members of our community perceive as inconsistent with our values or that are not clearly articulated; a failure to enforce our policies effectively, fairly and transparently, including, for example, by allowing the widespread listing of prohibited items in our markets; a failure to respond to feedback from our community; or a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our values. If we are unable to maintain trustworthy markets and encourage connections among members of our community, then our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could be impaired and our reputation and business could be adversely affected. Adherence to our values and our focus on our mission and long-term sustainability may negatively influence our short- or medium-term financial performance. Our values are integral to everything we do. Accordingly, we intend to focus on the long-term sustainability of our business and work toward our mission to reimagine commerce and expand the Etsy Economy. We may take actions that we believe will benefit our business and the Etsy Economy and, therefore, our stockholders over a longer period of time, even if those actions do not maximize short- or medium-term financial results. However, these longer-term benefits may not materialize within the timeframe we expect or at all. For example: we may choose to prohibit the sale of items in our markets that we believe are inconsistent with our values even though we could benefit financially from the sale of those items; we may choose to revise our policies in ways that we believe will be beneficial to our community in the long term even though the changes may be perceived unfavorably; or we may take actions, such as investing in alternative forms of shipping or locating our servers in low-impact data centers, that reduce our environmental footprint even though these actions may be more costly than other alternatives. We are a Certified B Corporation. The term Certified B Corporation does not refer to a particular form of legal entity, but instead refers to companies that are certified by B Lab, an independent nonprofit organization, as meeting rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. Our reputation could be harmed if we lose our status as a Certified B Corporation, whether by our choice or by our failure to meet B Labs certification requirements, if that change in status were to create a perception that we are more focused on financial performance and are no longer as committed to the values shared by Certified B Corporations. For example, since we do not intend to reorganize as a public benefit corporation 16 Table of Contents under Delaware law, our future status as a Certified B Corporation may be affected. Likewise, our reputation could be harmed if our publicly reported B Corporation score declines and that created a perception that we have slipped in our satisfaction of the Certified B Corporation standards. Similarly, our reputation could be harmed if we take actions that are perceived to be misaligned with our values. If we are not able to enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, our growth prospects may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new service and product introductions and changing customer demands. We spend substantial time and resources understanding the needs of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and responding to them. For example, we enhance our Seller Services, search and discovery functionality and the member experience on a regular basis. We also regularly launch new products and services. For example, in 2016, we launched a new Seller Service, Pattern, which enables Etsy sellers to create their own custom website. We also introduced a number of tools, such as Google Shopping, which allows sellers to reach audiences off of Etsy by advertising their listings in Google search results. In 2017, we plan to launch a new craft supplies market, Etsy Studio, to serve our craft supplies sellers and help them reach a broader audience of craft supplies buyers around the world. Our effectiveness in enhancing our current offerings and introducing new offerings may impact our revenue growth and our operating results. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may not be satisfied with our enhancements or new offerings or may perceive that these offerings do not respond to their needs. In addition, developing new services and features is complex, and the timetable for commercial release is difficult to predict and may vary from our historical experience. As a result, the introduction of new offerings may occur after anticipated release dates or they may be introduced as pilot programs, which may not be continued for various reasons. In addition, new offerings may not be successful due to defects or errors, negative publicity or our failure to market them effectively. New offerings may not drive increases in revenue, may require substantial investment and planning and may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. If we do not continue to cost-effectively develop new offerings that satisfy Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, then our competitive position and growth prospects may be harmed. In addition, new offerings may have lower margins than existing offerings and our revenue from the new offerings may not be enough to offset the cost of developing them. We expect to continue to increase our marketing efforts to help grow our business, but those efforts may not be effective. Maintaining and promoting awareness of our markets and broader platform is important to our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. We believe that much of the historical growth in the number of active sellers and active buyers has originated from word-of-mouth referrals and other organic means, as our historical marketing efforts and expenditures have been relatively limited, although increasing in recent years. We launched our first brand marketing campaign in 2016, and intend to invest significant resources in marketing in the future, particularly brand marketing focused on bringing more Etsy buyers to our platform and encouraging existing buyers to return more frequently. We anticipate that our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive as we continue to invest in our marketing efforts and as competition increases, and generating a meaningful return on those initiatives may be difficult. An important part of our markets strategy is to position Etsy's markets as go-to shopping destinations for unique items that buyers can use in their everyday lives. Our growth will depend in part on our ability to launch marketing campaigns that resonate with new and existing Etsy buyers and appropriately balance our level of marketing spending with the benefits that may be realized through revenue growth. If we are not able to change our brand perception and raise awareness of the breadth and depth of items available in our markets, our business could be adversely affected. The marketing efforts we implement may not succeed for a variety of reasons, including our inability to execute and implement our plans. External factors beyond our control may also impact the success of our marketing initiatives. Our marketing efforts currently include search engine marketing, affiliate marketing and display advertising, as well as search engine optimization, social media usage, mobile push notifications and email. We obtain a significant number of visits via search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. Search engines frequently change the algorithms that determine the ranking and display of results of a users search and may make other changes to the way results are displayed, which can negatively affect the placement of links to our markets and, therefore, reduce the number of visits to our markets. The growing use of online ad-blocking software, including on mobile devices, may also impact the success of our marketing efforts because we may reach a smaller audience and fail to bring more Etsy buyers to our platform. We also obtain a significant number of visits through email advertising. If we are unable to successfully deliver emails to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, or if Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers do not open our emails, whether by choice, because those emails are marked as low priority or spam, or for other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Social 17 Table of Contents networking websites, such as Facebook and Pinterest, are another important source of visits to our markets. As online commerce and social networking evolve, we must continue to maintain a presence within these networks. If the mobile solutions available to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are not effective, the use of our platform could decline. Purchases made on mobile devices by consumers, including Etsy buyers, have increased significantly in recent years. The smaller screen size and reduced functionality associated with some mobile devices may make the use of our platform more difficult or less appealing. Etsy sellers are also increasingly using mobile devices to operate their businesses on our platform. If we are not able to deliver a rewarding experience on mobile devices, Etsy sellers ability to manage and scale their businesses may be harmed and, consequently, our business may suffer. Further, although we strive to provide engaging mobile experiences for both Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers who visit our mobile website using a browser on their mobile device, we depend on Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers using our mobile apps for the optimal mobile experience. Visits to our markets through a mobile website may not convert into purchases as often as visits made through our mobile app or through desktop, which could result in less revenue for us. Additionally, although conversion rates have continued to increase across mobile websites, mobile apps and desktop, these rates may slow or stall, which could also have a negative impact on revenue. As new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, we may encounter problems in developing or supporting apps for them. In addition, supporting new devices and mobile device operating systems may require substantial time and resources. The success of our mobile apps could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as: actions taken by providers of mobile operating systems or mobile app download stores; unfavorable treatment received by our mobile apps, especially as compared to competing apps, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs to distribute or use our mobile apps; or changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps or that give preferential treatment to competitive products. If Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers encounter difficulty accessing or using our platform on their mobile devices, or if they choose not to use our platform on their mobile devices, our growth prospects and our business may be adversely affected. Expanding our community outside of the United States is an important part of our strategy and the growth of our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. Our vision is global and local and we are focused on expanding outside of the United States. Although we have a significant number of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers outside of the United States, we have limited experience in developing local markets outside the United States and may not execute our strategy successfully. Operating outside of the United States also requires significant management attention, including managing and staffing operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, and adapting our platform to local markets. Despite our execution efforts, the goods that Etsy sellers list on Etsy.com may not appeal to non-U.S. consumers in the same way as they do to consumers in the United States. In addition, non-U.S. buyers are not as familiar with the Etsy brand as buyers in the United States and may not perceive us as relevant or trustworthy. Also, visits to Etsy.com from Etsy buyers outside the United States may not convert into sales as often as visits from within the United States, including due to the impact of the strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the fact that a majority of the goods listed on our platform are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our success outside the United States will be linked to our ability to attract local Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to our markets. If we are not able to expand outside of the United States successfully, our growth prospects could be harmed. An inability to develop Etsy's community globally or to otherwise grow our business outside of the United States on a cost-effective basis could adversely affect our GMS, revenue and operating results. Competition is also likely to intensify outside of the United States, both where we operate now and where we plan to expand our operations. Local companies based outside the United States may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, their local markets. Some of our competitors may also be able to develop and grow internationally more quickly than we will. 18 Table of Contents Continued expansion outside of the United States may also require significant financial investment. These investments include marketing , enhancing our machine translation and machine learning to help sellers and buyers connect even if they do not speak the same language, forming relationships with third-party service providers, supporting operations in multiple countries and potentially acquiring companies based outside the United States and integrating those companies with our operations. Our investment outside of the United States may be more costly than we expect and our revenue may not increase sufficiently to offset these additional expenses. Further expansion outside of the United States will subject us to risks associated with operations abroad. Doing business outside of the United States subjects us to increased risks and burdens such as: complying with different (and sometimes conflicting) laws and regulatory standards (particularly including those related to the use and disclosure of personal information, online payments, intellectual property, consumer protection, online platform liability and taxation of goods and services); fluctuations of foreign exchange rates; potentially heightened risk of fraudulent transactions; limitations on the repatriation of funds; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and export control laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; varying levels of internet, e-commerce and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; our ability to enforce contracts and intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; and barriers to international trade, such as tariffs, customs or other taxes. Etsy sellers face similar risks in conducting their businesses across borders. Even if we are successful in managing the risks of conducting our business across borders, if Etsy sellers are not, our business could be adversely affected. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations outside of the United States and cannot manage these risks effectively, the costs of doing business in those markets may be prohibitive or our expenses may increase disproportionately to the revenue generated in those markets. Our payments system depends on third-party providers and is subject to evolving laws and regulations. Etsy buyers primarily pay for purchases using Direct Checkout or PayPal. In the United States and other countries where Direct Checkout is available, Etsy buyers can use Direct Checkout on our platform to pay with credit cards, debit cards, bank transfers, PayPal and, in certain markets, Apple Pay, Android Pay and Etsy Gift Cards, rather than being directed to a third-party payment platform. A significant portion of our GMS, approximately 78% , is processed through Direct Checkout, and a significant portion of our revenue is derived from Direct Checkout. We have engaged third-party service providers to perform underlying compliance, card processing and payment disbursing, currency exchange, identity verification and fraud analysis services. If these service providers do not perform adequately or if our relationships with these service providers were to terminate, Etsy sellers ability to receive orders or payment could be adversely affected and our business would be harmed. For example, third-party service providers may experience service outages from time to time that impact Etsy. In July 2016, a third-party payment processor experienced a technical issue that caused payment processing delays and complications for purchases through Direct Checkout, which required Etsy to develop a short-term manual solution. These payment processing delays and complications did not have a material impact on our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016. If a third-party payment processor has significant outages in the future and we do not have alternative payment processors in place or are unable to provide our own solution, our business could be harmed. In addition, if our third-party providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses could increase. If we respond by increasing the fees we charge to Etsy sellers, some Etsy sellers may stop using Direct Checkout, stop listing new items for sale or even close their accounts altogether. 19 Table of Contents The laws and regulations related to payments are complex, evolving and subject to change and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort to comply with those laws and regulations. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, could result in liabilities or could force us to stop offering Direct Checkout. Additionally, changes in payment regulation may occur that could render our payments system less profitable. For example, any significant change in credit or debit card interchange rates in the United States or other markets, including as a result of changes in interchange fee limitations, may negatively impact Direct Checkout. As we expand the availability of Direct Checkout or offer new payment methods to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in the future, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements. Further, through our agreements with our third-party payment processors, we are indirectly subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which are subject to change. Failure to comply with these rules and certification requirements could impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations with our third-party payment processors and could result in potential fines. We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. In addition, similar to a potential increase in costs from third-party providers described above, any increased costs associated with compliance with payment card association rules could lead to increased fees for Etsy or Etsy sellers, which may negatively impact Direct Checkout usage and our markets. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns, natural disasters, public health crises, political crises or other unexpected events. Macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. If general economic conditions deteriorate in the United States or other markets where we operate, consumer discretionary spending may decline and demand for the goods and services available in our platform may be reduced. This would cause sales in our markets and Seller Services revenue to decline and adversely impact our business. Conversely, if recent trends supporting self-employment and the desire for supplemental income were to reverse, the number of Etsy sellers offering their goods in our markets could decline and the number of goods listed in our markets could decline. In addition, we believe that currency exchange rates are dampening the demand from buyers outside the United States for goods denominated in U.S. dollars, which is impacting our GMS. As of December 31, 2016 , approximately 88% of our GMS was denominated in U.S. dollars. Natural disasters and other adverse weather and climate conditions, public health crises, political crises, such as terrorist attacks, war and other political instability or other unexpected events, could disrupt our operations, internet or mobile networks, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers. For example, when Hurricane Sandy struck New York in October 2012, our headquarters in Brooklyn was closed for five days, and we experienced a heavy volume of support requests from Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, which required us to devote additional resources to handle those requests. Events of this type could impact Etsy sellers ability to continue producing goods for sale in our markets. These events may also impact consumer perceptions of well-being and security, which may adversely impact consumer discretionary spending. If any of these events occurs, our business could be adversely affected. If sensitive information about members of our community is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are subject to cyber attacks, members of our community may curtail use of our platform, we may be exposed to liability and our reputation could suffer. Like all online services, our platform is vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks and other cyber attacks. Any of these incidents could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of our platform, loss of data or unauthorized disclosure of our members' personal or financial information. Cyber attacks could also result in the theft of our intellectual property. As we gain greater public visibility, we may face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber attacks. Although we rely on a variety of security measures, including encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties, we cannot assure you that such measures will provide absolute security, particularly given the increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers and cyber terrorists. Security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or employees of our third-party service providers. Additionally, some of our third party service providers, such as identify verification and payment processing providers, regularly have access to some confidential and sensitive member data. If these third parties fail to adhere to adequate security practices, or experience a breach of their networks, our members' data may be improperly accessed, used or disclosed. 20 Table of Contents Cyber attacks aimed at disrupting our and our third-party service providers services have occurred regularly in the past, and we expect they will continue to occur in the future. If we or our third-party service providers experience security breaches that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches that we may experience, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. Existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may stop listing new items for sale, decrease their purchases or close their accounts altogether. We could also face potential liability, regulatory investigation, costly remediation efforts and litigation, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Any of these results could harm our growth prospects, our business and our reputation for maintaining trusted markets. We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Our industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. To be successful, we need to attract and retain both Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. As a result, we face competition from a wide range of online and offline competitors. We compete for Etsy sellers with both retailers and companies that sell software and services to small businesses. In addition to listing her goods for sale on Etsy, an Etsy seller can list her goods with other online retailers, such as Amazon, eBay or Alibaba, or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues or marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our markets or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform, such as Square, Intuit and Shopify. We compete to attract, engage and retain Etsy sellers based on many factors, including: our brand awareness; the extent to which our Seller Services can ease the administrative tasks that an Etsy seller might encounter in running her business, wherever she chooses to pursue commerce; the global scale of our markets and the breadth of our online presence; the number and engagement of Etsy buyers; our seller education resources and tools; our policies and fees; the ability to scale her business through Pattern, Etsy Wholesale or Etsy Manufacturing; our mobile apps; the strength of our community; and our values. In addition, we compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay or Alibaba, or national retail chains, such as West Elm or Target, or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. Many of these competitors offer low-cost or free shipping, fast shipping times, favorable return policies and other features that may be difficult or impossible for Etsy sellers to match. We compete to attract, engage and retain Etsy buyers based on many factors, including: the breadth of unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our markets; our brand awareness; the person-to-person commerce experience; our reputation for trustworthiness; 21 Table of Contents our mobile apps; ease of payment; and the availability and reliability of our platform. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, better name recognition or more customers than we do. They may invest more to develop and promote their services than we do, and they may offer lower fees to sellers than we do. Further, our competitors could obtain preferential rates or shipping services, causing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to pay higher shipping costs or find alternative delivery services. Additionally, we believe that it is relatively easy for new businesses to create online commerce offerings or tools or services that enable entrepreneurship. Local companies or more established companies based in markets where we operate outside of the United States may also have a better understanding of local customs, providing them a competitive advantage. For example, in certain markets outside the United States, we compete with smaller, but similar, local online marketplaces with a focus on unique goods that are attempting to attract sellers and buyers in those markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to expend significant resources in response to our competitors actions, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on Etsy sellers to provide a fulfilling experience to Etsy buyers. A small portion of Etsy buyers complain to us about their experience with our platform. For example, Etsy buyers may report that they have not received the items that they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by an Etsy seller or that an Etsy seller has not been responsive to their questions. Although our Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes, negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints could reduce our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers or damage our reputation. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are inadequate could have similar results. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse Etsy buyers for their purchases to help avoid harm to our reputation, but we may not be able to recover the funds we expend for those reimbursements. Anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to Etsy buyers could harm Etsy sellers. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of Etsy sellers, such as interruptions in order or payment processing, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, inclement weather, terrorism, public health crises or political unrest. Disruptions in the operations of a substantial number of Etsy sellers could also result in negative experiences for a substantial number of Etsy buyers, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our reputation may be harmed if members of our community use illegal or unethical business practices. Our emphasis on our values makes our reputation particularly sensitive to allegations of illegal or unethical business practices by Etsy sellers or other members of our community. Our policies promote legal and ethical business practices, such as encouraging Etsy sellers to work only with manufacturers who do not use child or involuntary labor, who do not discriminate and who promote sustainability and humane working conditions. However, we do not control Etsy sellers or other members of our community or their business practices and cannot ensure that they comply with our policies. If members of our community engage in illegal or unethical business practices or are perceived to do so, we may receive negative publicity and our reputation may be harmed. Failure to deal effectively with fraud could harm our business. Although we have measures in place to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activity in our markets, those measures may not always be effective. For example, Etsy sellers occasionally receive orders placed with fraudulent or stolen credit card data. Under current credit card practices, we could be held liable for orders placed through Direct Checkout with fraudulent credit card data even if the associated financial institution approved the credit card transaction. Although we attempt to detect or challenge fraudulent 22 Table of Contents transactions, we may not be able to do so effectively. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to give the option of paying with credit cards if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards or fail to limit fraudulent transactions conducted in our markets. Negative publicity and sentiment resulting from fraudulent or deceptive conduct by members of our community or the perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are inadequate could reduce our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and damage our reputation. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet and mobile networks. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers rely on access to the internet or mobile networks to access our markets. Internet service providers may choose to disrupt or degrade access to our platform or increase the cost of such access. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on the ability to download and use our mobile apps. Internet service providers or mobile network operators could also attempt to charge us for providing access to our platform. In 2015, rules approved by the Federal Communications Commission went into effect that prohibit internet service providers from charging content providers higher rates in order to deliver their content over certain fast traffic lanes; however, the rules are subject to pending legal challenges and if they are overturned, or if the current Federal Communications Commission revokes or changes the rules, our business could be adversely impacted. Outside of the United States, government regulation of the internet, including the idea of network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. As a result, we could face discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede both our and Etsy sellers growth prospects, increase our costs and harm our business. Our business depends on network and mobile infrastructure provided by third parties and on our ability to maintain and scale the technology underlying our platform. The reliability of our platform is important to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. As the number of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, volume of traffic, number of transactions and the amount of information shared on our platform grow, our need for additional network capacity and computing power will also grow. The operation of the technology underlying our platform is expensive and complex, and we could experience operational failures. If we fail to accurately predict the rate or timing of the growth of our platform, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to maintain reliability. The investments we make in our platform are designed to grow our business and to improve our operating results in the long term, but these investments could also delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce profitability in the near term. We also depend on the development and maintenance of the internet and mobile infrastructure. This includes maintenance of reliable internet and mobile networks with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products. Third-party providers host much of our technology infrastructure. Any disruption in their services, or any failure of our providers to handle the demands of our markets could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to their financial conditions and to problems with the services they provide. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or do not expand our technology infrastructure successfully, then our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could be adversely affected, which could harm our growth prospects and our business. Our ability to recruit and retain employees is important to our success. We strive to attract, retain and motivate employees, from our office administrators to our management team, who share our dedication to our community and our mission. As we continue to grow, we cannot guarantee we will continue to attract the employees we need to maintain our competitive position. Some of the challenges we face in attracting and retaining employees include: preserving our company culture as we grow; continuing to attract and retain employees who share our values; promoting existing employees into leadership positions to help sustain and grow our culture; 23 Table of Contents hiring employees in multiple locations globally; responding to competitive pressures and changing business conditions in ways that do not divert us from our values; and integrating new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees, including our management team, is important to our success. In general, our employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees, such as our CEO or CFO, could adversely affect our business. Other companies, including our competitors, may be successful in recruiting and hiring our employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or on competitive terms. Filling engineering, product management and other technical positions in the New York City area is particularly challenging, especially in light of our distinctive technology philosophy and engineering culture. Qualified individuals are limited and in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract, develop and motivate them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, people with suitable technical skills may choose not to join us or to continue to work for us. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we are not able to maintain our engineering culture and broader company culture, then our ability to recruit and retain employees could suffer and our business would be harmed. The growth of our business may strain our management team and our operational and financial infrastructure. We have experienced rapid growth in our business, such as in headcount, the number of Etsy sellers and the number of countries in which we have Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and we plan to continue to grow in the future, both in the United States and abroad. For example, our headcount has grown from 251 employees on December 31, 2011 to 1,043 employees on December 31, 2016 . The growth of our business places significant demands on our management team and pressure to expand our operational and financial infrastructure. For example, we may need to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls and enhance our reporting systems and procedures. As we continue to grow, our operating expenses will increase. If we do not manage our growth effectively, the increases in our operating expenses could outpace any increases in our revenue and our business could be harmed. We may expand our business through acquisitions of other businesses, which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We have acquired a number of other businesses in the past and may acquire additional businesses or technologies in the future. For example, in September 2016 we acquired Blackbird Technologies, Inc. Acquisitions may divert managements time and focus from operating our business. Acquisitions also may require us to spend a substantial portion of our available cash, issue stock, incur debt or other liabilities, amortize expenses related to intangible assets or incur write-offs of goodwill or other assets. In addition, integrating an acquired business or technology is risky. Completed and future acquisitions may result in unforeseen operational difficulties and expenditures associated with: integrating new businesses and technologies into our infrastructure; consolidating operational and administrative functions; coordinating outreach to our community; maintaining morale and culture and retaining and integrating key employees; maintaining or developing controls, procedures and policies (including effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure