Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating and Financial Metrics for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: active buyer, active seller, Adjusted EBITDA, GMS, non-U.S. GMS, mobile GMS, and currency-neutral GMS growth. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to our opportunity; the impact of our Right to Win and other growth strategies, including our strategies for integrating our House of Brands marketplaces, marketing and product initiatives and investments and other levers of growth on our business and operating results, including future gross merchandise sales (GMS) and revenue growth; the impact of our Offsite Ads offering on our future financial performance; our ability to attract, engage, and retain buyers and sellers; our newly announced transaction fee increase and plans for marketplace investments; strategic investments or acquisitions and the potential benefits thereof; our intended environmental and social impacts; the uncertain macroeconomic environment and impacts that the COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, strategy, operating results, key metrics, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows; changes in overall levels of consumer spending and e-commerce generally; and volatility in the global economy. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as aim, anticipate, believe, could, enable, estimate, expect, goal, intend, may, plan, potential, project, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions and derivative forms and/or negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Other factors may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those risks include those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Given these uncertainties, you should read this Annual Report in its entirety and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report and, although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this Annual Report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. In addition, the global economic climate and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic may amplify many of these risks. Forward-looking statements represent our beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. The following summary highlights some of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. This summary is not complete and the risks summarized below are not the only risks we face. You should review and consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors which includes a more complete discussion of the risks summarized below as well as a discussion of other risks related to our business and an investment in our common stock. Financial Performance and Operational Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced rapid growth, and we may not have the infrastructure, human resources, or operational resources to sustain continued growth at our recent pace. The ongoing, unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and may continue to impact, our GMS and could impact our results of operations in numerous volatile and unpredictable ways. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. The price of our common stock has been and will likely continue to be volatile and declines in the price of our common stock could subject us to litigation. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our business could suffer if we experience a technology disruption that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about users or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against technology vulnerabilities, service interruptions, security breaches, or other cyber incidents. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. Our business, financial performance, and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third-party services, platforms, and infrastructure that we rely upon to maintain and scale our platform. We have experienced rapid domestic and global growth, and we may be subject to expanded and potentially uninsured risk, making it more difficult for us to maintain profitability in the future. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns, natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, geopolitical changes or other macroeconomic conditions which have in the past and may in the future negatively impact our business and financial performance. Our ability to attract and hire a diverse pipeline of talent and retain key employees is important to our success. If we experience significant attrition or turnover it could impact our ability to grow our business. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes, and enhance current and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. If the widely adopted mobile, social, search and/or advertising solutions that we, our sellers, and our buyers rely on as part of our key offering are no longer available or effective, or if access to these major platforms is limited, the use of our marketplaces could decline. If we do not demonstrate progress against our Impact strategy or if our Impact strategy is not perceived to be adequate, our reputation could be harmed. Our reputation and the value of our brands may also be damaged if we fail to demonstrate that our commitment to our Impact strategy enhances our overall financial performance. Expanding our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and the growth of our business could be harmed if our international expansion efforts do not succeed. Our recent acquisitions of Depop Limited (Depop) and Elo7 Servios de Informtica S.A. (Elo7) may create strains on our management, technology and operational resources and may prove to be costlier and take longer to integrate than we anticipate, which may ultimately reduce or eliminate the benefits to Etsy of the acquisitions. We may expand our business through additional acquisitions of other businesses or assets or strategic partnerships and investments, which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We have a significant amount of convertible debt that may be settled in cash and may incur additional debt in the future. Regulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks Compliance and protection under evolving global legal and regulatory requirements including privacy and data protection laws, tax laws, product liability laws, antitrust laws, intellectual property and counterfeiting regulations, may materially impact our time, resources, and ability to grow our business. Expanding our operations in Latin America and India may expose us to additional risks. We have been involved in, and in the future may be involved in, litigation and regulatory matters that are expensive and time consuming and that may require changes to our strategy, the features of our marketplaces and/or how our business operates. We may be subject to intellectual property or other claims, which, even if untrue, could damage our brands, require us to pay significant damages, and could limit our ability to use certain technologies or business strategies in the future. Other Risks Future sales and issuances of our common stock, or rights to purchase common stock, including upon conversion of our convertible notes, could result in additional dilution to our stockholders and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Table of Contents PART I - Financial Information Item 1. Business. Overview Our Mission Etsys mission to Keep Commerce Human is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. We believe that consumers are demanding more of the businesses they support and that companies that build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet, and profit will be best positioned to succeed. We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission and business strategy to help create economic impact through entrepreneurship. You can read more about Etsys Impact and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategies beginning on page 18, where we report on metrics aligned with both our self-identified Impact priorities and widely accepted third-party frameworks. About our Company Etsy operates two-sided online marketplaces that connect millions of passionate and creative buyers and sellers around the world. These marketplaces - which collectively create a House of Brands - share our mission, common levers for growth, similar business models, and a strong commitment to use business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people. Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is the global destination for unique and creative goods made by independent sellers. The Etsy marketplace connects creative artisans and entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers looking for items that are a joyful expression of their taste and values. Our sellers are the heart and soul of Etsy, and our technology platform allows our sellers to turn their creative passions into economic opportunity. We have a seller-aligned business model: we make money when our sellers make money. We offer Etsy.com sellers a marketplace with tens of millions of buyers along with a range of seller tools and services that are specifically designed to help our creative entrepreneurs generate more sales and scale their businesses. In addition to our core Etsy marketplace, our House of Brands consists of Reverb Holdings, Inc. (Reverb), our musical instrument marketplace acquired in 2019, Depop Limited (Depop), our fashion resale marketplace, and Elo7 Servios de Informtica S.A. (Elo7), our Brazil-based marketplace for handmade and unique items. Both Depop and Elo7 were acquired in July 2021. Our marketplaces primarily operate independently, although some of our functions in key areas such as finance, legal, and human resources, for example, support all four marketplaces to some extent. The Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 marketplaces are included in all financial and other metrics discussed in this report, unless otherwise noted, from their respective dates of acquisition. Our sellers generated $13.5 billion of Gross Merchandise sales (GMS) in 2021. Of this, the Etsy marketplace represented 90.6%, and the Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 marketplaces represented 7.0%, 2.2%, and 0.2%, respectively (the latter two marketplaces having been owned by Etsy for just less than half of 2021). We anticipate that the Etsy marketplace will continue to be the primary driver of our overall financial performance for the foreseeable future. Here are a few key statistics about our marketplaces: The Etsy, Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 marketplaces collectively connected a total of 7.5 million active sellers to 96.3 million active buyers as of December 31, 2021. Collectively our marketplaces had over 120 million items for sale as of December 31, 2021. Our top six retail categories on the Etsy marketplace in 2021 continued to be homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, apparel, craft supplies, paper and party supplies, and beauty and personal care. These categories, excluding masks, represented approximately $10 billion, or 87% of 2021 GMS. Reverb provides a significant presence in the market for musical instruments, Depop extends our apparel offering into the resale space, and Elo7 expands our geographic opportunity with a local brand in Brazil. We are a global company, and 42% of our consolidated 2021 GMS was generated when a seller or buyer, or both, were located outside of the United States. Approximately 64% of our 2021 consolidated GMS came from purchases made on mobile devices, with mobile app being the fastest growing device for the Etsy marketplace. 1 Table of Contents Our Strategy As illustrated below, our strategy is focused around: Building a sustainable competitive advantage - our Right to Win; Growing the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies; and Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our House of Brands. Building a sustainable competitive advantage - our Right to Win Our Right to Win is centered on four key elements that we believe make Etsy.com a better place to shop and sell and, which, in turn, will bring more buyers, lead to increased frequency and size of purchases, and build trust in the Etsy marketplace. We believe that when executed effectively, these elements can create a multiplier effect that will drive future growth. Our sellers collection of unique items : The foundation of Etsy.coms competitive advantage is our sellers collection of millions of unique items. Sellers choose to list their collections of unique items on our marketplace because they believe that we are the best place for them to start and grow a creative business and that we have created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the worlds most talented makers. The unique nature of our sellers items requires that we invest in the other three elements of our strategy: search and discovery, human connections, and our trusted brand in order to deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience. Best-in-class search and discovery : We are focused on continuing to develop a search and discovery experience that unlocks the value of the unique items that can be found on the Etsy marketplace. With millions of items listed on Etsy.com that dont map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (SKU), our challenge is delivering world-class search and discovery technology that surfaces the right unique product to the right buyer at the right time in order to drive sales and buyer satisfaction. We use artificial intelligence and machine learning to help personalize the search experience and enable Etsy buyers to more easily browse, filter, and find the items they desire. Were investing in multiple areas focused on understanding buyer tastes and preferences as we strive to anticipate and inspire their next purchase. The power of human connections : Our mission to Keep Commerce Human is a vital part of our strategy. We continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our business. What makes the Etsy marketplace special isnt just the unique items in our marketplace; its also the stories of how those items were brought to life by the hands of real people. Our buyer experience allows Etsy buyers to work with Etsy sellers to personalize or customize items to their exact specifications. We believe that fostering and elevating the quality of these human connections will continue to enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency, thus differentiating Etsy.com from other places you can shop. Our trusted brand : We will continue to focus on being a reliable brand that inspires trust along the buyer journey when buyers search, purchase, anticipate, and receive their special items, and all the steps in between. Since Etsy sellers have relatively unknown brands and unbranded items, we aim to ensure that the Etsy brand is recognized and valued for providing an excellent end-to-end experience. There are two key elements to being a trusted brand: standing for something that buyers understand and rely on, and delivering a purchasing experience that feels efficient and safe. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, Etsy sellers, the items available on Etsy, and in the overall Etsy experience. Growing the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies: We are focused on growing the Etsy marketplace in our seven core geographies (as illustrated above). While we have sellers and buyers around the world, we define our core geographies as locations that meet any of the following criteria: represent our most attractive buyer GMS opportunities, where we currently have or believe we can create a vibrant two-sided marketplace, or 2 Table of Contents where were making strategic investments in domestic growth. We will also continue to evaluate additional geographies for strategic investments. Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our House of Brands We now have four values-aligned e-commerce marketplaces offering non-commoditized items in our House of Brands: Etsy, Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 which stand for creativity, community, and special. Our goal is that all four marketplaces will benefit from shared expertise in product, marketing, technology, and customer support, and that the sum of the whole, over time, will equal more than its individual parts. We believe our marketplaces all share key elements central to success, including: analytical frameworks, product experiment and measurement approaches, and operating rhythms that prioritize resource allocation towards the most impactful outcomes, sophisticated search and discovery technology, compelling on-site customer experiences, efficient payment platforms, value-added seller services, such as advertising platforms and effective shipping options, strong brand and performance marketing capabilities, and a commitment to investments that protect the marketplace. We have created cross-functional, cross-marketplace initiatives designed to accelerate value creation across our newly acquired marketplaces, enabled by the deep subject matter expertise developed over the past several years within the Etsy leadership team. Each of these initiatives apply marketplace best practices to each brands specialty or demographic. We will monitor these early collaborations through the year and adjust depending upon the needs and market dynamics of each brand. Lastly, Etsys strategy, to a lesser extent, also includes selectively pursuing acquisitions of businesses or technologies that complement our marketplaces or align with our overall growth strategy. Such acquisitions could help us expand our geographic reach, enter or deepen our exposure to product categories, or expand our technology portfolio or offering. How We Make Money We see our business model as a virtuous circle - we connect sellers and buyers, enable their transactions, receive fees for our services, and then reinvest in customer experiences to further grow Etsy and our sellers revenue. We generate revenue primarily from marketplace activities, including transaction, listing, and payments processing fees, and fees for optional seller services, which include on-site advertising and shipping labels. For more information, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Components of Our Results of OperationsRevenue. Marketplace Revenue (Required fees) Listing Fee Transaction Fee Payments Processing Fee Offsite Ads Transaction Fee Services Revenue (Optional value-added services) On-site Advertising Shipping Labels Other 3 Table of Contents Our House of Brands Marketplaces The Etsy Marketplace Buyers come to the Etsy marketplace for meaningful, one-of-a-kind items handcrafted and curated with passion and expertise by our creative entrepreneurs. We are focused on attracting potential buyers to Etsy for everyday items that have meaning and those special purchase occasions that happen throughout the year. These include items that reflect an individuals unique style; gifting that demonstrates thought and care; and celebrations that express creativity and fun. Etsy purchase occasions can happen frequently throughout the year - when a buyer is decorating a home, selecting an outfit for a special event, planning a celebration for a special moment, or buying a gift for someone else. In fact, according to a 2021 Etsy buyer survey: ~87% of buyers say Etsy has items I cant find anywhere else; ~72% of buyers agree there is no other store or website similar to Etsy; and when asked the reasons for their most recent visit to Etsy (buyers were asked to indicate all that apply), 55% of buyers said to look for a specific, unique item to purchase for myself; 36% said to look for a gift for someone else; 23% said to treat myself with a purchase; 20% said to browse or seek inspiration; and 9% said to celebrate a major life event. Beginning in 2020 and continuing through 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic and other global macroeconomic factors drove a significant shift to online purchasing in many retail categories. Millions of buyers found Etsy for the first time, or discovered us again, for many everyday items, including those that at the beginning of the pandemic were temporarily unavailable elsewhere. Our sellers ability to provide these items to buyers enabled Etsy to reinforce our brand messaging, aligning handcrafted and special with everyday purchase occasions. Weve developed a thoughtful and powerful strategy to define what everyday means for Etsy, bringing it to life in our marketing and product experiences. Weve also continued to deepen our brands connection to small businesses and the dynamic, unique inventory available on Etsy. Throughout 2021 we focused on deepening our engagement with buyers, encouraging them to consider Etsy as a starting point for their purchase or inspiration journeys across many retail categories and shopping occasions. As a result, weve seen a meaningful increase in overall buyer frequency, and habitual buyers, our most loyal, are the fastest growing buyer segment. In fact, GMS from existing Etsy buyers grew 34% year-over-year in 2021 and represented approximately 87% of overall Etsy.com GMS. You can read more about the performance of our buyer segments below. We believe the Etsy marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including: A brand that stands for Intentional Shopping: In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy.com is a marketplace where creativity lives and thrives because its powered by people. We help our community of sellers turn their ideas into successful businesses. Our platform connects them with millions of buyers looking for an alternativesomething special that expresses their taste and values. Unique products: Etsy boasts a large assortment of handmade, customized, personalized, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. As of December 31, 2021 there were nearly 100 million i tems listed on the Etsy marketplace, and approximately 23% of our 2021 GMS was from custom or made-to-order merchandise. Global reach: In 2021, 42% of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and 43% of our GMS was generated between an Etsy seller, Etsy buyer, or both, located outside of the United States. Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and sellers to interact across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, Etsy Ads, and conversations between buyers and sellers. We invest in localization, particularly within our core non-U.S. markets, to create a more localized experience such as browse features and shipping filters, which has resulted in more buyers purchasing from sellers within their own country. In fact, our fastest growing trade route is between buyers and sellers in the same non-U.S. country and, in 2021, over 70% of GMS in the United Kingdom and Germany was from domestic sales. 4 Table of Contents Organic traffic base: The unique nature of our sellers inventory and power of our brand have enabled us to organically build a loyal, global base of Etsy buyers on the platform. In 2021 , 81% o f our GMS was generated through organic channels, including a large portion from buyers visiting Etsy directly as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications. Connection between Etsy buyers and sellers: As of December 31, 2021, 90.1 million buyers and 5.3 million sellers were active on the Etsy marketplace. We emphasize that the items listed for sale on the Etsy marketplace are brought to life by real people and that buyers can connect directly with sellers in order to ask questions and personalize or customize items to their specifications . One example of how we are enabling buyers and sellers to engage in new, more human ways is our use of listing videos, where sellers showcase their expertise in making and bringing their products to life. Approximately 13 million seller videos were uploaded as of December 31, 2021. Connected experience across all devices: We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience regardless of the format. Our mobile website and our Etsy mobile app for Etsy buyers (Buy on Etsy) include search and discovery, curation, personalization, augmented reality, and social shopping features. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 64% of Etsy.com GMS was generated on a mobile device. Through product investments that drive buyers to our app, weve been able to increase app downloads by 47% in 2021, which is beneficial to conversion rat e, as our mobile app channel has the highest conversion rate among devices. Buyer intent; people come to the Etsy marketplace to browse and be inspired: Our platform is designed to provide a personalized search experience to Etsy buyers, adjusting results and recommendations based on transaction data and previous browsing history. We are continuing to build more sophisticated algorithms that allow us to deliver more personalized results to our buyers, utilizing browsing and transaction data to surface items buyers didnt know they wanted. I n 2021, we launched a proprietary capability we call XWalk, a large-scale, real-time graph retrieval engine that dramatically expands the available data processed to capture semantic meaning, and to improve conversion rate, by showing more relevant inventory to buyers. The Reverb Marketplace Reverb, headquartered in Chicago, is a unique two-sided marketplace founded in 2013 on the principle that buying and selling musical instruments should be easy. Reverb connects buyers and sellers of new, used, and vintage musical gear from all over the world, uniting music makers with the gear that inspires them. As of December 31, 2021, our Reverb marketplace had 847 thousand active buyers and 210 thousand active sellers. Reverbs buyers and sellers range from beginning musicians looking for their first instruments to professional musicians that utilize the platform to expand their tools, local music stores that use Reverb to do more business online, and the largest music retailers in the world that use Reverb to reach an even larger audience. In 2021, over 65% of Reverbs active sellers also bought on Reverb, and those that bought and sold gear spent two times more than those that bought gear on Reverb but did not sell on Reverb. Reverbs unique characteristics include the depth and breadth of its sellers inventory, 1.6 million listings as of December 31, 2021, range of sellers (including retailers, manufacturers, and individual sellers distributed across the globe), one of the largest musical instrument databases with historical pricing data in the world, and a large and passionate community of musicians and music gear lovers. In 2021, Reverb invested in improving platform engagement, optimizing conversion rate, improving the user experience, advertising, and driving international growth. After a very strong growth year in 2020, Reverb again grew GMS in 2021, up 16% year over year, despite other musical instruments sales channels being reopened. Further, Reverb significantly outpaced the growth of the musical instruments market on a two-year basis. Reverbs growth strategy continues to be focused on making it easier to sell and ship gear, becoming the best destination for special gear, and expanding internationally. The Depop Marketplace Depop, headquartered in London , is dedicated to building the worlds most diverse and progressive home of fashion. Since its founding in 2011, Depop has evolved to become a community-powered fashion marketplace to buy and sell unique fashion, with approximately 26 million registered users. Depop had approximat ely 3.7 million active buyers and 2.0 million a ctive sellers at December 31, 2021. Approximately 6 0% of Depop sellers who made a sale in 2021 also made at least one purchase in 2021 which we believe shows the strong engagement of Depops user base. Approximately 90% o f Depops GMS is in the apparel category. Depop had approximately 16.6 million listings as of December 31, 2021 . Depop is a place for anyone to discover and celebrate their style on their own terms and to feel good about their fashion choices by extending the lives of millions of garments. We believe Depop has a meaningful growth opportunity given its strong user engagement metrics, leading resale market position with the Generation Z (Gen Z) consumer demographic, and strong brand awareness in its core markets (United Kingdom and United States). As of December 31, 2021, the majority of Depops users were Gen Z (the demographic cohort succeeding Millennials and known as digital natives as they are the first social generation to have grown up with access to the internet and portable digital technology from a young age). According to a 2021 ThredUp Annual Resale Report, which looked at trailing twelve month (TTM) data, ove r 40% of Gen Z and Millennial shoppers shopped second-hand fashion in 2020. 5 Table of Contents Depops GMS is incremental to Etsys consolidated results for the periods we owned the business in 2021. Depop experienced very strong growth in 2020, followed by reopening headwinds in 2021. I n 2022, Depop will be focused on making investments in product and marketing designed to reignite growth and drive engagement and conversion rate and exploring value-added services to drive monetization and improved profitability. The Elo7 Marketplace Elo7, known as the Etsy of Brazil, was founded in 2008 and is headquartered in So Paulo, Brazil. Elo7 specializes in custom and made-to-order merchandise, connecting approximately 55 thousand active sellers and 1.8 million a ctive buyers, and had approximately 9.9 million items for sale as of December 31, 2021. Approximately 70% of Elo7s GMS is from repeat buyers. Elo7's marketplace includes items in over 40 retail categories, with a significant amount of GMS from "special event and life moment" categories. In 2021, Elo7s top categories were paper and party supplies, housewares and home furnishings, baby and kids, apparel, weddings, and craft supplies. Elo7 is ranked as a top 10 e-commerce site in Br azil (according to Conversion E-commerce Report in Brazil, April 2021), providing us with a strong local brand in the largest Latin American e-commerce regio n. Given its exposure to the special events and life moment category, whose celebrations were negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, Elo7 underperformed the broader e-commerce sector in 2020 and 2021. Elo 7s near-term priorities are focused on optimizing conversion rate, leveraging Etsys know-how to further invest in product and marketing with a disciplined return on investment lens, and giving sellers tools to help them grow, including access to more options for fast and affordable shipping that buyers can rely on. Similar to Etsy, we believe that Elo7 can expand its consideration set in the mind of Brazilian consumers, becoming a destination they turn to more frequently for more of lifes special moments. Primary Business Drivers We leverage technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Among other things, we invest in our technology and infrastructure, product development, marketing, trust and safety, member support and seller tools and education as we strive to continuously improve our marketplaces for our buyers and sellers. While the discussion below focuses on the primary drivers of the Etsy marketplace, there are similar business drivers at each of our marketplaces. Technology Infrastructure Our engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of sellers and buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. This team writes, deploys, and operates the software and services that enable us to run our business, including the web and mobile products we deploy externally and internally, and maintains our cloud environment and local office networks, and more. Etsy also makes significant investments in areas such as foundational infrastructure, our payments platform, cyber security, internal information technology, data enablement, and system architecture. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform, produce personalized recommendations, improve our search experience, and test features on our website. Our use of machine learning algorithms on the Etsy marketplace creates an engaging shopping experience and helps Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers connect across our platform. We apply proprietary machine learning, artificial intelligence, and human curation to personalize the search and recommendations experiences and enable buyers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Machine translation and machine learning also play an important role in making it easy for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to connect even if they dont speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy marketplace, which we believe significantly increases the items available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience. In addition, our technology infrastructure allows us to scale our efforts across the platform. Since the Etsy marketplaces migration to Google Cloud, completed in 2020, weve increased engineering efficiency, shifting the focus from maintaining on-premise systems to product engineering work that is more strategic. As the COVID-19 pandemic shifted consumer shopping habits to more online commerce, traffic volume increased dramatically, and the cloud migration enabled us to dynamically flex our infrastructure. In addition to its flexible capacity, we also believe the cloud has enhanced our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble technology on an as needed basis. Our subsidiary marketplaces Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 also operate their marketplaces in the cloud and make similar technical development investments with Amazon Web Services (AWS). 6 Table of Contents Product Development Etsys product development and engineering organization is built around the core belief that we can create connections between our sellers and buyers that are personal and fundamentally different from those in other places you can shop or sell. We believe we have a novel approach to product development, which we call our Product Development Culture, an evolving set of key principles, mindsets, and habits that guide how our teams work, experiment, and interact as we develop great experiences for our customers and business. Our teams are organized around a collection of initiatives that support a common strategy aligned with our Right to Win, with cross functional teams focused on a single key performance indicator (KPI) and set of objectives and key results, all meant to solve key customer friction points. Product and engineering groups work across all areas that matter to our buyers and sellers - the core buyer and seller experience, search and ads, payments, fulfillment, member support, and more. Our approach to solving customer challenges include deep research, A/B testing, exploratory analysis, product management, design, engineering, and product marketing (go-to-market strategies). Just a few examples of our 2021 product and engineering investments include our work to build buyer confidence in Etsy purchases, including improvements to the post-purchase experience and greater transparency into expected delivery date and order status. As of December 31, 2021, 67% of sellers items on the Etsy marketplace offered free shipping to U.S. buyers, and 46% of global orders were delivered with free shipping. We also made significant improvements in shipping transparency; as of December 31, 2021 nearly 100% of U.S. listing views had an expected delivery date. Additional examples of product investments launched in 2021 to drive frequency, include new personalized buyer onboarding and investments in our updates tab, which prompts buyer actions such as favoriting. Etsy also shares aspects of its product development culture and strategies with our other brands. We are early in this effort and believe that over time increased focus on experimentation, search, recommendations, and fulfillment will improve the customer experience across all of our marketplaces. Marketing We believe that our approach to investments in marketing are somewhat different from some other players in e-commerce, and we continue to evolve and refine these activities as a core component of our business. Weve evolved our marketing strategy to reinforce our core brand promise in the minds of Etsy buyers, and weve strengthened our capabilities by employing a full-funnel marketing approach, optimizing our investments in each area of the funnel. Our two primary types of marketing investments, performance and brand - where we spent approximately $431 million and $126 million, respectively on a consolidated basis in 2021 - are discussed below: Performance marketing. In 2021, the percentage of consolidated GMS attributed to performance marketing (paid GMS) was 19%. Our investments in performance marketing, which we define as paid media spend related to the digital acquisition and reengagement of buyers, adjusts according to demand and scale based on incremental return. We do not set fixed budgets for our marketing team; our investment philosophy for performance marketing is to invest until the marginal return on investment (ROI) on the next dollar spent is below our target minimum ROI. Increases in buyer lifetime value (LTV), driven by visits, conversion rate, incremental revenue, and frequency, shifts the return curve, enabling us to spend more in marketing. The vast majority of return comes in-period, although some does fall into subsequent quarters. Our performance marketing spend naturally adjusts with demand, which we believe has worked well for us through changing demand and pricing for third-party marketing channels. In May 2020, we launched our innovative advertising program for Etsy marketplace sellers called Offsite Ads. In this offering, Etsy pays the upfront costs to promote Etsy sellers listings on multiple internet platform, and sellers only pay an additional fee when they make a sale. When a shopper clicks on an offsite ad featuring a sellers listing and purchases from the sellers shop within 30 days of that click, the seller pays Etsy a transaction fee on that order. We believe our Offsite Ads program is a win-win for Etsy and our sellers because sellers only pay a fee when they make a sale and the additional fee enables Etsy to expand the LTV, as outlined above, enabling us to spend deeper to drive more visits to our marketplace. In 2021, revenue from Offsite Ads offset approximately 33% of our performance marketing spend. Brand marketing. Since 2018, Etsy has leaned more heavily into upper funnel brand marketing strategies through TV, digital video, and paid social, to create a flywheel designed to elevate the effectiveness of our other marketing channels. Our strategies have significantly improved brand awareness and loyalty: our U.S. Etsy buyer surveys indicate that, since the fourth quarter of 2018, we have nearly doubled buyers loyalty, prompted awareness is up 11 percentage points, and unprompted awareness is up 8 percentage points. In addition, purchase intent has grown over 100%, and visit intent has nearly doubled in that same time period. We believe that Etsy still has significant room to build top of mind awareness and consideration in the minds of buyers. Within the data cited above, there was strong, positive movement across the brand survey from the fourth quarter of 2020 to the 7 Table of Contents fourth quarter of 2021. We are seeing great movement in our brand funnel metrics in the other two core markets where we are investing in top of the funnel marketing. In the United Kingdom, unprompted awareness is up 10 percentage points year over year, and in Germany that same metric has more than doubled. We anticipate that brand marketing will continue to increase as a percentage of our spend, lengthening the payback period for our marketing investments overall. To measure the impact of TV, we use a blended approach that combines our own internal analysis with multiple third-party methodologies as well as tracking brand metrics such as awareness and preference. In addition, were expanding into new marketing channels, such as influencer collaborations, to reach new buyers and drive deeper engagement with existing buyers. Through these collaborations, which include co-created items and custom curated favorites, Etsy and our sellers partner with celebrities and influencers who are passionate about Etsy to drive engagement, reach, impressions, and visits. Our marketing strategy also includes sophisticated Customer Relationship Management tools that enable us to segment and target our buyers for engagement on and off Etsy, mid funnel advertising such as on social media channels, and corporate marketing partnerships to target specific buyer demographics. We also build our brand globally through earned media that features Etsy as a trend-setter and global destination for conscious shopping that supports small business. Our other marketplaces are not yet as sophisticated as Etsy.com in either performance or brand marketing, and we see further opportunity following early collaborations to share expertise through projects and personnel across our brands. We believe increased collaboration has the potential to drive future growth. Trust & Safety The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency among our members by clearly outlining the rights and responsibilities of sellers and buyers participating on our platforms. On Etsy.com we strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain standards, which starts with our policies. Fundamentally, we require that goods listed on Etsy be handmade (whether by the seller alone or with the help of a production partner), vintage, or craft supplies. Etsy is an unjuried marketplace, meaning sellers run their own shops, create, sell, and ship their own products, and are responsible for complying with our robust Seller Policy. Items on Etsy do not have barcodes or SKUs, and Etsy does not ever touch or possess the items for sale on our marketplace. The unique nature of Etsy sellers product inventory, combined with the constantly evolving nature of policy interpretation, necessitates expert, human involvement in content moderation, which we combine with the power of cutting-edge tools and technology. Our teams continuously re-evaluate content on Etsy.com in the context of emerging trends to determine whether such content violates our House Rules or terms of use, including our Prohibited Items policy. Etsy.com has a zero tolerance approach for items that promote, support, or glorify hate or violence or that perpetuate the spread of harmful misinformation. Beyond prohibited content detection and removal, we have grounded our content moderation program and product roadmap in ensuring that buyers can trust their experience and have the information they need to make informed purchase decisions, and that sellers can understand what is required of them, including whether their listing is permitted under our policies. We remain committed to ensuring that any member can easily alert Etsy about potential violations of our policies. We have also taken steps to ensure that Etsy sellers are positioned for success by making our policies easy to understand, refining our violation notification process, and providing resources to help sellers when they have compliance questions. As the Etsy marketplace has experienced significant growth over the last few years, we have increased our investments and resources dedicated to trust and safety. This includes scaling our teams and investing in new tools and advanced technologies to enable these teams to more effectively and efficiently do their jobs. This included growing our content moderation team, adding a new handmade and counterfeit team dedicated to fighting counterfeits and violations of our handmade policy, and creating a dedicated trust and safety machine learning engineering team. We publish an annual Transparency Report, which details our policy enforcement for the year on Intellectual Property, Prohibited Items, and Requests for Member Information policies. We have shared this report on our corporate website annually since 2015 and believe that publicly reporting on our enforcement efforts builds trust in our marketplace and community. Our other marketplaces Depop, Reverb, and Elo7 also care about running trustworthy marketplaces, and maintain robust community guidelines and prohibited items policies. You can read more about their respective policies and procedures by visiting their marketplace websites. 8 Table of Contents Member Support As the Etsy marketplace has scaled, so have our investments in member support. When customers need assistance on Etsy.com, we jump in and work to help resolve problems quickly. As the primary touch point for our vibrant community of buyers and sellers, our Member Services team serves as both the voice of the Etsy brand and an important advocate for our community. When an issue arises, or a user has a question, we want to ensure they get support quickly and easily. In 2021 we made specific improvements to our case management system, and we invested in self-service, better dashboards, and education for our sellers so they can more quickly resolve issues without our intervention. Here are some other examples of improvements we have made: Chat is an increasingly preferred option among many Etsy users. We have significantly expanded our live chat support in recent years, and well continue to dedicate more resources to this feature; Weve eliminated the hassle of lengthy hold times for those buyers who prefer to speak with someone on the phone by introducing a call back option; We are harnessing the power of machine learning to help our teams prioritize the most pressing requests. Our other marketplaces also require similar member support activities, and we believe our experience can be leveraged across our brands to help drive their future growth and customer satisfaction. Se ller Tools & Education In addition to our Offsite Ads advertising program and our paid services which include Etsy Ads, our onsite advertising platform for sellers, and our shipping labels product, we provide a wide range of tools, programs, and educational resources to give Etsy marketplace sellers the support they need to manage and grow their businesses. Here are some examples: Seller Tools: We offer a variety of free tools to Etsy sellers, including our Shop Manager dashboard, which serves as a centralized hub for Etsy sellers to track orders, manage inventory, view metrics and statistics, and have conversations with their customers across all of their Etsy shops. This dashboard is a single, easy-to-use interface that streamlines sellers bills and payments accounts. In 2021 we made significant investments in our Sell on Etsy app to enable improved onboarding, and added features such as easy video uploading. Our Etsy seller analytics pages provide additional insights regarding traffic acquisition for their shops. Other marketing tools include Targeted Offers, our sales and promotions tool, and our social me dia tool, which help Etsy sellers with their marketing needs and allows them to stand out on and off the Etsy platform. Also, through a partnership with Intuit, Etsy sellers in the United States and the United Kingdom can simplify their accounting and bookkeeping. Education: We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to start, manage, and scale their businesses on our platform, including: Blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums, and insights from our support teams. Etsy sellers also connect through self-organized Etsy Teams to build personal relationships with other Etsy sellers, collaborate, educate, and support each other as they build their independent creative businesses. New Star Seller program: In the third quarter of 2021, Etsy introduced a Star Seller program that defines what success looks like by celebrating and rewarding our top-rated sellers, defining standards, and giving them motivation, support, and agency to improve their Etsy businesses. Early signals indicate that purchasing from a Star Seller may increase buyer frequency, with Star Sellers generating higher repeat purchase rates than those who have yet to achieve the badge. Our other marketplaces also offer many tools and services for their seller communities, including tips for success, pricing insights, community events, and shipping carrier relationships and support. 9 Table of Contents The Etsy Marketplace: Our Passionate and Engaged Community Over the past few years, Etsys investments in our growth strategy and business drivers, as well as external factors that drove dramatic changes to the way people engage with e-commerce marketplaces in general and with the Etsy marketplace in particular, have led to significant changes in engagement and retention of our seller and buyer communities. This section outlines characteristics of the Etsy marketplace seller and buyer cohorts, which we believe is a useful barometer to track our performance over time. Etsy Sellers We believe that our sellers are the backbone of Etsys business and that what matters most to them is our community of approximately 90 million buyers. We serve creative artisans and entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them excellent value compared with other channels they may have to sell their products, and a cohesive suite of powerful tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. In 2021, active sellers, those who sold an item or incurred a bill charge in the last 12 months, grew 28% compared to 2020 and 109% compared to 2019. Our sellers growth can be measured by TTM GMS per active seller, which has increased from $1,865 in 2019, to $2,281 in 2020, to $2,302 in 2021. About Etsy Sellers Our November 2021 seller survey found that 56% of Etsy sellers are multi-channel sellers and that Etsy represents their largest sales channel. Etsy sellers sell in physical locations such as craft fairs, mall kiosks, or other live selling events, through their own websites or on other online marketplaces. Here is some further information on our sellers from our November 2021 survey: 79% identify as women; 71% consider their Etsy shop to be a business; 91% are the sole owner of their business; 95% run their shops from their homes; 82% aspire to grow their sales in the future; 63% started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income; 32% pursue their creative business as their sole occupation; 6 in 10 consider it extremely or very important to run a socially responsible and environmentally friendly business; and 7 in 10 say their Etsy income has held steady, if not grown, since the start of the pandemic. 10 Table of Contents Etsy New Seller GMS Retention Year 1 GMS GMS Retention Rate Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 New Sellers $481M 100% 133% 173% 247% 2018 New Sellers $553M 100% 158% 244% 2019 New Sellers $832M 100% 179% 2020 New Sellers $2,884M 100% In the above tables, each new seller cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all sellers that created and were billed for their first listing on Etsy.com in the designated year. The GMS retention rate reflects the GMS generated by each cohort as a percentage of the total GMS generated by that cohort in their initial year. The GMS for each seller is calculated from the date of their first listing fee such that Year 1 represents the GMS within 365 days of their first listing fee. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2020 new seller cohort, as sellers who incurred their first listing fee later in 2020 have not yet had two years to age. In addition to the growth in GMS per seller as outlined earlier in this section, this seller cohort data shows that newer vintage seller cohorts on the Etsy platform are generating more GMS in their first year on the platform than prior vintage seller cohorts, and that all seller cohorts are retaining more GMS in subsequent years. Etsy Buyers The Etsy marketplace supports a community of approximately 90 million buyers, who value self-expression, unique items, and buying directly from creative artisans and entrepreneurs. Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. They can also purchase customized items, vintage merchandise, and craft supplies from Etsy sellers. By shopping on the Etsy marketplace, Etsy buyers are supporting creative artisans and entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. We are focused on driving more new buyers to the platform and driving engagement so they purchase more often. The COVID-19 pandemic and other global macroeconomic factors were catalysts for significant change in how buyers engage with Etsy.com. Below we provide detail supporting our belief that we have been able to retain much of the positive impact weve seen from the dramatic adoption of e-commerce during the past two years. The pandemic cohort has been sticky - 53% of all buyers who made a purchase on the Etsy marketplace in 2020 made another purchase in 2021, and 37% of new buyers in 2020 made a purchase in 2021. 11 Table of Contents For the Etsy marketplace, our number of active buyers - those buyers who have made a purchase within the trailing twelve months - has grown at a 28.2% compound annual growth rate (CAGR) since 2017, as shown in the chart below: GMS per Active Buyer : We believe that one of the most useful ways to track the success of our efforts to drive buyer retention, frequency, and purchases is to look at GMS per active buyer on a trailing twelve month basis. You can see the progression of this metric for the Etsy.com marketplace below. 12 Table of Contents New Buyers : We believe that we have a significant opportunity to attract those who have never shopped on Etsy.com before. Since a buyer is separately identified by a unique e-mail address, a buyer is considered new if they use a unique e-mail address that has never been used for a purchase on the Etsy marketplace. During 2021, we had almost 35 million new Etsy.com buyers, down 9% compared to 2020. While the growth in new buyers decelerated from the pandemic-driven peak levels achieved during 2020, new buyer acquisition remained meaningfully elevated when compared to pre-pandemic periods. GMS from new Etsy.com buyers was up 3% year-over-year and represented approximately 13% of overall Etsy.com GMS in 2021. Year 1 GMS GMS Retention Rate Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 New Buyers $17.8M 100% 36% 48% 76% 2018 New Buyers $20.5M 100% 46% 71% 2019 New Buyers $23.2M 100% 62% 2020 New Buyers $48.4M 100% In the above tables, each new buyer cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all buyers that made their first purchase on Etsy.com in the designated year. The GMS retention rate reflects the GMS purchased by each cohort as a percentage of the GMS purchased by that cohort in their initial year. Each buyers GMS is calculated from the date of their first purchase such that Year 1 represents the GMS purchased by a buyer within 365 days of their first purchase. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2020 new buyer cohort, as buyers who bought later in 2020 have not had two years to age. 13 Table of Contents Given the dramatic change in Etsys business over the past two years, we are providing a revised view of buyer retention than in our prior Annual Reports. This view focuses on GMS retention, which we believe is the best way to evaluate Etsy buyer behavior over a multi-year period. The chart on the left (above) shows the retention of GMS from new buyers as a percent of the GMS from their first purchase year. Etsy has seen an uptick in GMS retention for our older 2017 and 2018 cohorts, and the 2019 cohort has started off with stronger GMS retention than its predecessor cohorts. The right-hand chart shows the same GMS retention rates and includes the first purchase year GMS for each cohort; this is the base from which the retention rate is calculated. Etsys product and marketing investments are focused on continuing to drive frequency among existing buyers, which we believe leads to higher rates of GMS retention over time. Reactivated buyers : Weve also made significant strides in reactivating lapsed buyers, generating purchases from buyers who hadnt made a purchase in a year or more. We had over 21 million reactivated buyers in 2021, a decrease of 4% compared to 2020 when we reactivated 22 million buyers. While in 2021 the pool of lapsed buyers decreased, the number of reactivated lapsed buyers remained very high compared to pre-pandemic levels. We continue to see buyer reactivation as a key to our long-term growth. Because buyers often lapse in their Etsy.com purchases, the strategies outlined above are intended to re-engage buyers and build top of mind awareness and consideration. 14 Table of Contents Repeat Buyers: Repeat Etsy buyers represent shoppers who made purchase s on two or more days in the previous 12 months. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In 2021, on the Etsy marketplace, approximat ely 49% of our active buyers were repeat buyers, representing continued steady improvement in this metric over the past few years. The average number of times per year that buyers are purchasing has also increased - from 4.6 times per year in 2019 to 5.2 times per year in 2021. Habitual Buyers: We are particularly focused on converting our repeat buyers into habitual buyers, or Etsy buyers who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. As of December 31, 2021, habitual buyers grew to 8.1 million , an increase of 26% compared to 2020. The growth in habitual buyers is faster than overall active buyer growth, indicating our efforts to convert buyers into more loyal shoppers on the Etsy marketplace a re seeing meaningful signs of success. Growth in habitual buyers in non-U.S. geographies is outpacing the U.S. growth, with 73% and 17% growth, respectively, from 2020 to 2021. Habitual buyers represented approximately 45% of our GMS in 2021, and we believe that focusing on creating more habitual buyers, and building additional loyalty with these buyers, is key to our future growth. 15 Table of Contents Summary of Active Buyers by Purchase Type: the below chart represents a summary of active buyer behavior according to the number of days they purchase and the amount they spend on Etsy during a twelve month period. 16 Table of Contents Our Opportunity We believe that the nature of commerce is continuing to evolve: more people are choosing to purchase goods online and many consumers are looking for special items as an alternative to mass produced goods. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic has shifted behavior for buyers around the globe, leading to a surge in e-commerce and accelerated digital transformation. Consumers are increasingly going digital, providing and purchasing more goods and services online, raising e-commerces share of global retail trade from approximately 13.8% in 2019 to approximately 19.6% in 2021, according to eMarketer. Many anticipate that new shopping habits, the continued rapid growth of mobile devices, convenience, wide selection, and other factors will continue to drive shoppers to shop online more and more. Furthermore, we believe that the lines between online and offline shopping are blurring for many consumers, and that Etsy has the opportunity to continue to gain share within the context of the broader retail marketplace. We expect that our future success hinges on our ability to execute on the growth strategies outlined above, bringing more buyers to the marketplace, driving frequency of purchasing and the amount of spend on Etsy. In 2019, Etsy conducted a market opportunity analysis. At that time we estimated that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within Etsys then six core geographic markets, United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, and France, represented a $249 billion market opportunity, and a $1.7 trillion market opportunity when offline is included. Included in this analysis of relevant retail categories was apparel and footwear, beauty and personal care, home and living, craft supplies, paper and party, art and collectibles, personal accessories and eyewear, pet care, and toys and games. We recently updated this market opportunity analysis to incorporate the growth of e-commerce adoption over the past two years. We now estimate that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within our seven core geographic markets, now including India, represents a $466 billion market opportunity, and a $2.0 trillion market opportunity when offline is included. For the last few years, the growth of the Etsy marketplace has outpaced the growth of e-commerce, and we have gained market share. Yet, our 2021 Etsy marketplace GMS only represented approximately 2.6% of the online only portion outlined above. We continue to focus on our goal of growing at a faster rate than e-commerce overall, and on gaining share through further penetration of certain categories and driving frequency of purchases on Etsy from existing and new buyers. Since our analysis is focused on our core geographies and retail categories, additional upside to this opportunity could come from further geographic and/or category expansion for Etsy.com. In addition, since our 2019 market opportunity analysis, Etsy has taken several important strategic actions that deepen or enhance our total market opportunity. These include: our purchases of Reverb (musical instruments), Depop (expanding our apparel category opportunity into the resale sector), and Elo7 (which brings Etsy into the Brazilian e-commerce market). 17 Table of Contents ESG Reporting: Our Impact Goals, Strategy & Progress We have developed an Impact strategy and goals that reflect the positive impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy, and we are pleased to provide this update on our progress. Our Approach to Impact Reporting: Since announcing our Impact strategy in 2017, we have continued to evolve and update many of our goals to be more specific, measurable, and time bound, all while continuing to expand the transparency of our reporting on these activities. We apply the same focus, discipline, and accountability to our Impact metrics as we do our financial metrics, and together, they make us stronger and more resilient. We expect to continue to use our required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as our Investor Relations website and Etsy News blog, as our primary communications channels for information relating to our Impact strategy and progress. In this Annual Report, Etsy continues to report our Impact metrics using the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) frameworks. Reporting under the SASB and TCFD framework can be found on pages 30-32 and 33-36, respectively. Our House of Brands: We expect to continue to evolve our Impact strategy and disclosures in the future as we grow and incorporate our recently acquired marketplaces into our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategy and as our Impact work matures. Except where specifically noted, our discussion of Impact and Impact data includes the operations of our Reverb marketplace but does not include the operations of Depop or Elo7, which were acquired in 2021. It is our intention to further integrate our new subsidiary brands in our ESG reporting in the future. Transition to ESG Nomenclature: In this report, Etsy has transitioned our Impact reporting to the more commonly used environmental, social, and governance nomenclature. We believe this change has provided us with an opportunity to take a fresh look at our focus areas, will make it easier for our various stakeholders to track and interpret our progress, and better align our reporting with emerging global standards. Below on page 19, please see a chart outlining our new framework and objectives across each ESG pillar. 18 Table of Contents THE ETSY, INC. MISSION Keep Commerce Human We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission and business strategy to help create economic impact through entrepreneurship. ENVIRONMENTAL Building resilience for the long-term SOCIAL Ensuring equitable access to opportunity GOVERNANCE Fostering a culture of ethics and accountability Net Zero Achieving Net Zero through near- and long-term Science-Based Targets while continuing to run a carbon neutral company. Prioritizing People Enabling our team to thrive through thoughtful practices that optimally attract, promote, and retain our talent. Responsible Marketplace Practices Engendering trust with responsible structures and safeguards that reflect how deeply we care about our communities and marketplaces. Sustainable Operations Sourcing 100% renewable electricity, reducing the intensity of our energy use, and running zero waste operations. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Aiming for diverse representation, creating an inclusive culture and centering equity in our workplace, with our suppliers, and in our marketplaces. Thoughtful Corporate Governance Crafting thoughtful corporate governance practices to guide our business. Responsible Shopping Addressing the impacts of our marketplaces and establishing them as destinations for conscious consumers. Social Innovation Providing pathways to economic freedom by using our platforms to support communities and invest in programs that promote beneficial economic and creative opportunities. Integrated ESG Reporting Driving accountability through robust ESG reporting. Risk Oversight & Management Building for the future through robust risk assessment and oversight to unlock innovation and drive long-term value creation. 19 Table of Contents 2021 Impact Highlights Creating Economic Impact Through Entrepreneurship We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission and business strategy to help create economic impact through entrepreneurship and, therefore, create value for all our stakeholders. In 2021, Etsy sellers contributed $14.3 billion to the U.S. economy, a 167% increase from our baseline of $5.37 billion in 2018.* Furthermore, Etsy sellers created 3.8 million jobs in the independent worker economy, enough jobs to employ almost all of the city of Los Angeles, California (population 3.97 million), and generated $3.8 billion in income. Etsy sellers produced over $8 billion in additional economic value by harnessing their creativity and bringing unique products to market. * To calculate these results, Etsy commissioned its third economic impact study with ECONorthwest, an independent economic consulting firm, to explore the ways Etsy sellers in the United States contribute to the national economic landscape. ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL GOVERNANCE We procured 100% renewable electricity for our operations. We ran a carbon neutral business, by investing in over 549,250 verified emissions reductions that protect forests, sponsor wind and solar farms, and help develop greener methods for producing auto parts. We have an ambitious Net Zero goal based on near- and long-term carbon reduction targets that are aligned with the science of climate change. We helped our U.S. sellers access and buy packaging made from certified responsibly sourced and 100% recycled materials that buyers can immediately recycle at home. Etsy continued to attract and retain world-class talent in 2021, with a keen focus on diversity. In 2021, Etsy, including Reverb, grew our leadership level employee population who identify as a member of an underrepresented community (Black, Latinx, or Native American; collectively, URC) by 41.7%, and from 8.6% to 9.4% of our overall leadership level employee population. Hires from URCs constituted 16.7% of U.S. Etsy.com hires in 2021. The percentage of U.S. Etsy.com employees who are from URCs has increased from 8.6% in 2018 to 12.9% in 2021. Balancing this growth in the diversity of our workforce with a renewed focus on inclusion has helped our values-driven company culture continue to thrive. This year we continued to make investments in our employee resource group program and launched a company-wide inclusion training program. We also helped creative entrepreneurs from economically disenfranchised communities benefit from the growth of digital commerce. We believe that effective governance does not call for a one-size-fits all approach. We carefully consider our governance practices and tailor them to our business to promote the long-term interest of Etsys stockholders. In 2021, we expanded and refreshed our Board of Directors by appointing two new directors. We also updated certain Board of Directors practices to enhance oversight of cyber related risks. In addition, the trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among our buyer and seller communities continue to be the cornerstones of Etsys business. 20 Table of Contents How We Drive Impact Underpinning our Impact strategy is a set of levers we employ to achieve our ambitions. Business Integration Responsibility and accountability for implementing our Impact strategy is integrated and owned across our company through many cross functional teams. Our Impact strategy is approved annually by our Executive Team, and each of our Impact goals has an Executive sponsor. Our Board of Directors also has oversight of these activities. Marketplace Integration We are working to integrate our impact ambitions into how our marketplace platforms are designed and operated, and how our sellers and buyers experience our marketplaces. By making it easier for sellers and buyers to understand their personal and collective impact, we aim to influence more sustainable practices on the seller side while helping buyers make more informed decisions. We are building product features to enhance inclusivity and accessibility, and we are conscious about using marketing data and marketing images in responsible and ethical ways. Values-Aligned Resource Allocation Were putting our resources behind positive change to enable the communities we are a part of to thrive. Here are some examples: Philanthropy. In 2021, we invested over $2.9 million in philanthropic donations, including for COVID-19 relief, to Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPI) led organizations, and to organizations driving access to opportunity in STEM education and the technology industry. Contributing to our Communities. Collectively, Etsy enabled employees to donate 2,490 hours of paid volunteer time off in their communities through Etsys Impact Hours program. Purchasing Power. We aim to drive positive impact in our supply chain by investing in strong relationships with our suppliers. We engage on priority impact areas, such as supplier diversity, greenhouse gas emissions, fair wages, and employee benefits programs, at crucial touch points throughout the supplier lifecycle. We conduct regular reviews, audits, and conversations to confirm suppliers are upholding agreed upon practices and to identify further areas where we can engage with suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct designed to ensure that our suppliers are committed to our standards. Public Policy - Advocating for creative entrepreneurs and the planet We aim to leverage our engagement with policymakers to advance our commitments to economic empowerment for creative entrepreneurs, equity, and ecological sustainability. A key aspect of this work is activating the power of our seller community. During 2021, over 35,000 Etsy sellers advocated on these issues in the United States, United Kingdom, and the European Union and generated over 50,000 messages to lawmakers on behalf of our community. In 2021, we continued to advocate for public policies aligned with the needs of creative entrepreneurs including COVID-19 relief for the self-employed and sole proprietors; portable benefits, support for the U.S. Postal Service, sensible platform regulation and economic justice policies to support micro-businesses operated by women, indigenous community members, and people of color. We also took the following actions in support of policy solutions to help drive carbon reduction in the long term, including advocating for national and regional policies with the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation, supporting national goal-setting efforts that stand to expand electrification infrastructure and increase environmental justice, and continuing to collaborate with peers, vendors, and non-government organizations on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector. 21 Table of Contents Environmental Building resilience for the long term Net Zero 2021 Goals: Achieve Net Zero by 2030 and run a carbon neutral business now. 50% absolute reduction in Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. 13.5% absolute reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Offset 100% of measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. Progress on our Science-Based Targets In 2021, we reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 66% while Scope 3 emissions increased by 252%, each from a 2019 baseline. 1 The most significant drivers of our Scope 3 emissions are largely outside of our control, such as the shipping our sellers do directly to our buyers. Thats why our reduction levers for this goal are long-term and systemic in nature. While we begin to activate these levers, in the near-term we still expect to see an increase in emissions as our business grows. In 2021, we took the following steps to drive progress on our Science-based Targets: Planet-Friendly Packaging As part of our efforts to meet our Net Zero goal, we are helping sellers reduce emissions from the packaging they use to ship orders. In 2021, we launched a new partnership with EcoEnclose, through which U.S. sellers can access and buy affordable, paper-based packaging made from certified responsibly sourced and 100% recycled materials that buyers can also recycle easily at home. In 2021 seller packaging made up 12% of our total footprint. We plan to continue working with sellers and partners to reduce our emissions from e-commerce packaging. Supplier Engagement Through our supplier vetting program, we collected impact data from 75.6% of Etsys suppliers, representing 83% of Etsys supplier spend in 2021. Of suppliers who have provided information, we found that 52.9% of Etsys spend went to companies that have set a greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal. In 2021, emissions from our corporate supply chain were 111,391 tCO2e, or 20% of our total footprint. We plan to leverage our negotiating power in our supply chain to contribute to our efforts to meet our Net Zero goal. Climate Advocacy We support policy solutions intended to affect systemic change that will help to drive carbon reduction in the long term. Our climate advocacy actions are further described in Public Policy, above. Carbon Neutral Business We have run a carbon neutral business since we launched carbon-offset shipping in 2019. For 2021, we invested in 549,250 verified emissions reductions (VERs), protecting forests, sponsoring wind and solar farms, and developing greener methods for producing auto parts. Being carbon neutral allows us to take immediate action to balance our footprint while we work toward long-term reductions in our value chain as a part of our efforts to meet our new Net Zero goal. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Accountability Each year we evaluate our corporate greenhouse gas boundary to ensure that we are taking responsibility for the climate change impacts of our business. Our approach has been to expand our scope over time towards being as comprehensive as reasonably possible. Thats why we have expanded our inventory in 2021 to account for the greenhouse gas impacts from our fuel and energy related emissions from activities not included in Scope 1 and Scope 2. We also updated our methodology for Purchased Goods and Services by adding in Cloud Computing activities and incorporating more supplier data into our calculations which is why in part our supply chain emissions increased and why percentage of supplier spend with a GHG target also changed. More details on the evolution of our GHG accountability can be found at the bottom of the GHG Summary table on page 32. 2022 Goals: Achieve Net Zero through targets aligned with the science of climate change while continuing to run a carbon neutral company. By year end 2030, we aim to achieve a 50% absolute reduction in Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions and a 52% reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of gross profit from a 2020 base year. By year end 2040, we aim to achieve a 90% absolute reduction in Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions and 97% reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of gross profit from a 2020 base year. Continue to offset 100% of measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions annually. 1 Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions such as natural gas and refrigerants used at our facilities. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions from the generation of electricity, steam, heating, and cooling that we may purchase for our facilities. Scope 3 emissions include all other indirect emissions that occur in our value chain such as business travel, employee commuting, and the goods and services we purchase. 22 Table of Contents Sustainable Operations 2021 Goals: Achieve best-in-class sustainable operations by sourcing 100% renewable electricity, reducing the intensity of our energy use, and running Zero Waste operations. Continue sourcing 100% of electricity from renewable sources. Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use by year end 2025. Maintain Zero Waste across global operations for Etsy.com. Run Zero Waste operations at Reverb by year end 2025. Renewable Electricity We sourced 100% of our electricity for 2021 from renewable energy, after meeting this goal for the first time for 2020. This includes electricity used to power Etsy and Reverbs global offices, remote electricity used by employees working from home (in the United States, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, India, Ireland, the United Kingdom, and Netherlands), and Etsy.coms computing load in colocated data centers and Google Cloud. Energy Use In 2021, our total operational energy footprint was 15,512 MWh, of which 52% was from electricity. Because our offices were closed for much of the year due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we included estimations of remote energy use for employees working from home totaling 7,047 MWh. Our colocated data centers accounted for 302 MWh, and we estimate our energy consumption from Google Cloud in 2021 to be 5,060 MWh. In total, our 2021 energy use for computing was 35% of our total energy use in 2021. Energy Efficiency Our 2021 office energy footprint was 3,103 MWh. In offices where Etsy.com maintains operational control, we achieved a 45% reduction in energy intensity (kWh per square foot) across our global operations based on a 2016 baseline. While our efficiency work has driven significant progress since 2016, the magnitude of this reduction was in large part due to COVID-19 office closures. For Etsy.com computing energy use, we achieved a 27% reduction in total energy use between 2018 and 2021, despite substantial growth in our business over the same time period. Zero Waste In 2021, Etsy.com achieved Zero Waste operations through the Total Resource Use and Efficiency (TRUE) certification program by Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) for the fourth year in a row by diverting over 90% of waste from landfill at four office locations. In 2021, we diverted 93% of waste generated from office and data center operations from landfill. 2022 Goals: Maintain best-in-class sustainable operations: Source 100% of electricity from renewable sources for all Etsy Inc. brands. Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use in offices (kWh/sq ft) and for computing (kWh/visit) for Etsy.com by year end 2025. Maintain Zero Waste across global operations for Etsy.com. Run Zero Waste operations at Reverb and Depop by year end 2025. Responsible Shopping 2021 Goal: Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living. In 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace impact. In 2021, we tested and built a number of product features that can serve as a foundation for work on Responsible Shopping. We had planned to define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for our responsible shopping goal; however, we have not yet determined the best metric to use. We will continue working to define this baseline in 2022. Shop Local We introduced an updated Shop Local signal which indicates when the buyer is in the same ship-from region as the item. Local purchases can play a significant role in reducing our carbon footprint from shipping. Buyers appreciated being able to shop locally too, as we saw a conversion rate increase upon adding the local signal. Buyer Engagement and Education To engage buyers in the positive impact they create when they shop on Etsy.com, in the fourth quarter of 2021 we launched an Impact Tracker that creates a personalized digest of the positive outcomes from a buyers lifetime activities. The Impact Tracker summarizes how many small businesses a buyer has supported, how much emissions were offset from shipping and packaging for their purchases, and how much the buyer has contributed to Etsys Uplift Fund. 2022 Goals: Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living. Define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline on circularity. 23 Table of Contents Social Ensuring equitable access to opportunity Prioritizing People As of December 31, 2021, we had 2,402 employees worldwide, inclusive of Reverb, which had 245 employees, Depop, which had 390 employees, and Elo7 which had 184 employees. We look forward to including diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) data information about newly acquired brands Depop and Elo7 in next years Annual Report when integration is complete. As Etsys overall business grew, the stresses of a global pandemic continued, and we leaned on our value of embracing differences. For many of us with caregiving responsibilities, that meant the ability to create a flexible work schedule or to take paid family leave without judgement or stigma. For those of us seeking community it meant finding connection as part of our Employee Resource Groups. And for those ready for the next growth opportunity it meant leveraging our competency matrices and our performance enablement program to pursue those professional aspirations with support from their manager. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core to Etsys culture. Were committed to building a workplace where people of all backgrounds and walks of life can thrive. We know that diverse and inclusive teams build more creative and innovative solutions that strengthen our business and reinforce our values. Safety will always be the top priority and in 2021 visiting an Etsy office remained completely optional. While in a fully remote status, weve grown and evolved our thinking around How and Where We Work. 2021 has strengthened our conviction that our employees can excel wherever they choose to work. Grounded in inclusive practices and norms, we believe a hybrid approach to work is the best fit for our business, culture, and team. Our hybrid work policy allows employees to select the work mode that best fits their personal needs-- Remote (fully working from home), Flex (select days in office and at home), or In Office (predominantly working in our offices). Etsy offices are beloved gathering spaces for our teams to have human connection in person and we look forward to exploring new norms and technology that embrace this new hybrid way of working. The sustainability of our working environment and employee well-being also remained a key priority. We retained our expanded paid family leave policies that were established in 2020, as well as periodic company-wide rest and recharge days to supplement Etsys generous paid time off policies. Etsy employees also took advantage of regular Focus Days, full days where non-critical meetings are cancelled and we focus on digging in deep on individual work. Furthermore, we are focused on employee engagement, which is linked with high performance, retention, innovation, and growth. Our employees have chosen to work at Etsy because they believe in our action-oriented, values-based, and purpose-driven work culture. In May 2021, Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees. Of all employees surveyed across Etsy and Reverb, 90% submitted a response. 75% of Etsy respondents and 75% of Reverb respondents reported favorable employee engagement, ahead of industry peers in the New Tech category according to research done by Culture Amp. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion 2021 Employee DEI Goals: Build diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities. Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Etsy.com who identify as Black, Latinx, or Native American by year end 2023. Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Reverb who identify as BIPOC by year end 2026 (to at least 33% by year end 2026). Reach gender parity at Reverb by year end 2026 (increasing women and marginalized genders to at least 50% by year end 2026). Employee DEI We made progress on the goal we set in 2018 to double the percentage of employees that identify as members of an URC at Etsy.com by 2023. In 2021, people from URCs constituted 16.7% of Etsy.coms U.S. hires. As a result, at December 31, 2021, people from URCs made up 12.9% of Etsys (excluding subsidiary brands) U.S. workforce, up from 8.6% in 2018, 11% in 2019, and 12.5% in 2020. In 2021, Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) constituted 21.9% of Reverbs U.S. hires. At December 31, 2021, Reverbs U.S. workforce included 18.9% BIPOC representation. Reverbs definition of BIPOC includes, Black, Latinx, Native American, Asian and two or more races. At Reverb, the representation of women and marginalized gender employees grew from 27.3% in 2020 to 33.9% in 2021. Attracting and Retaining Diverse Talent at the Leadership Level Etsy continued to attract and retain world-class talent in 2021, with a keen focus on diversity. In 2021, Etsy and Reverb collectively grew our leadership level employee population who identify as an URC by 41.7%, and from 8.6% to 9.4% of our overall leadership level employee population. Our recruiting efforts include auditing each job description for inclusive language, sourcing from wide talent pools, strict adherence to a structured interview process, diversity training for all interviewers, and applying the Mansfield rule for all job openings to ensure candidates from underrepresented communities are included at the hiring manager screening or onsite stage (requirement varies by department). To retain our employees, were investing in refreshed management training through Etsys Managing in the Moment program, inclusion training for all employees, creating multiple avenues for connection and feedback between our Employee Resource Groups and our executive leaders; and critically, we are seriously committed to building trust and transparency with employees. For example, career development conversations take place quarterly at Etsy, and managers receive special training to facilitate annual review conversations and to mitigate potential biases in the process. Accelerating and Enhancing Our Employee DEI Efforts In 2021, we grew the number of staff members dedicated to DEI and added roles in areas that collaborate closely with the DEI team to bolster equity and inclusion across Etsy. While we consider caring for our culture to be everyones job, we have found success by more robustly resourcing our DEI teams. 24 Table of Contents 2022 Employee DEI Goals: Build diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities. Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Etsy.com who identify as Black, Latinx, or Native American by year end 2023. For Mexico and Ireland-based Engineering teams, achieve approximately two times country-level gender representation benchmark for women and marginalized genders by year end 2027. Mexico target: 13% Ireland target: 16% Reach gender parity at Reverb by year end 2026 (increasing women and marginalized genders to at least 50% by year end 2026). Approximately double the percentage of U.S employees at Reverb who identify as BIPOC by year end 2026. Enhance and expand accessibility efforts by defining a KPI and establishing a baseline for accessibility in the employee experience at Etsy.com, Reverb, and Depop. Focus on Inclusion Building on Etsys progress towards achieving our diversity workforce goals and longstanding commitment to equitable policies, in 2021 we focused on building a more inclusive working environment. Listening to employees, we made several shifts in our shared diversity language. We are now referring to underrepresented racial groups as communities rather than minorities, and being more mindful in our descriptions of gender categories by using the term marginalized genders rather than other. Language will always be evolving and our aim is to refer to groups using the language recommended by those groups. Weve continued with our mentorship programs and our employee resource group (ERG) program in 2021. Our goal is to create a positive and inclusive workplace culture where employees from all backgrounds, ages, and abilities have access to programs that foster a sense of community, contribute to professional development, and amplify diverse voices within the organization. In 2021, Etsy grew our ERG program to nine communities and added a full time Senior Manager to support the program, created a series of roundtables where ERGs held dialogs with executive leaders, hosted a robust program of ERG-produced events such as Active Bystander Training and a Juneteenth guest lecture, and ensured our ERGs have a voice in Etsys benefits offerings. For instance, this year the Mental Health ERG, Queer@Etsy, and Parents ERG were all instrumental in providing feedback to bolster benefits offerings that bring real value to their respective communities. An Innovative Approach to DEI Training In addition to our annual anti-discrimination and anti-harassment trainings, Etsy partnered with Praxis Labs to roll out virtual reality based DEI training for all employees. This seven month long, self-paced learning journey is supported by monthly discussion sessions facilitated by the DEI team with insights and reporting generated by Praxis Labs platform. Special DEI skill-building workshops were developed in partnership with third party consultants and completed by Etsys executive team and our Human Resources Business Partner team in 2021. We understand that the responsibility on our leadership and People team to ensure we walk the talk of our DEI commitment requires that we go beyond the standard unconscious bias training. Our DEI development goals include advancing individuals and our collective ability to build empathy, identify inequity, and most importantly, take action. Pay Equity We continued to invest in fair pay practices, and saw positive results in our 2020 Pay Equity analysis, which was conducted by a third-party consulting firm. The analysis found no unexplained pay gaps adverse to women or employees from other marginalized genders, or non-white employees. This was consistent with the findings of our 2018 analysis. We plan to continue to comprehensively audit pay equity bi-annually with an external consultant, and conduct internal reviews several times a year in conjunction with events such as merit pay decisions and market adjustments. Gender Diversity Etsy proudly maintains approximate gender parity in the overall employee population, among Leadership and at the Board of Directors level. Globally, the percentage of women and marginalized gender employees in Engineering at Etsy and Reverb stands at 33.1%. Weve identified Etsy Engineering sites in Ireland and Mexico as key areas of focus for improving gender diversity. In Ireland and Mexico, where software engineering teams are growing the fastest, our goal is for Etsys engineering teams to include women and marginalized genders at approximately two times the national representation benchmark. Accessibility Ensuring our employees are supported by policies, tools, and benefits that fit their needs remains a top priority. We take a generous approach to providing employees with accommodations, leaves of absence when needed, and we work hard to reduce stigma related to discussing matters of disability and mental health. Additionally, this year weve ensured closed captioning is available for all virtual meetings and in all new hire orientation videos. In 2022, we seek to enhance and expand those efforts by defining a KPI and establishing a baseline for accessibility in the employee experience. 2021 Supplier DEI Goal: Build a diverse, equitable, and sustainable supply chain to support our operations and bring value to our company and our vendors. Ensure at least 50%* of Etsys small- and medium-sized enterprise suppliers are owned by women, minorities, or veterans by year end 2022. *Based on suppliers providing impact data through our supplier vetting program. DEI in our Corporate Supply Chain In line with Etsys commitment to enable equitable access to economic opportunities, we are taking meaningful steps to ensure we have diverse representation across our supply chain. Through our supplier vetting program, we collected impact data from 75.6% of Etsys suppliers, representing 83% of Etsys supplier spend in 2021, and we continued to track our supply chain impact across key indicators. Of suppliers who have provided information through our impact survey, we found that 50.1% of Etsys small and medium-sized suppliers (sole proprietors up to 250 employees) are owned by women, minorities, or veterans. We will continue to enhance data collection protocols to increase coverage across more of our full supply chain. COVID 19 Commitments : Since the beginning of our office shutdown in 2020, we have worked with our suppliers to provide pay continuity, hazard pay, and health insurance for essential and in-person office building contractors. 25 Table of Contents 2022 Supplier DEI Goal: Create an equitable and sustainable supply chain that supports our House of Brands while reducing our carbon footprint, supporting diverse businesses and bringing new economic opportunities to our suppliers and their employees. Ensure at least 50% of Etsys small and medium-sized enterprise suppliers* are owned by women, underrepresented racial communities, or veterans by year end 2022. *Based on suppliers providing impact data through our supplier vetting program. df Employment Practice Priorities In 2021, we outlined a set of expectations around employment practices for suppliers who provide Etsy with full time contract workers. We began this work in 2020 by conducting a thorough analysis of our suppliers' current employment practices and identified industry-appropriate benchmarks. Etsy utilizes a number of vendors, contractors, and consultants, collectively our vendor partners, in the ordinary course of its business. These vendor partners are typically engaged to (a) enable Etsy to access otherwise unavailable expertise; (b) to fill short term staffing requirements (for example, temporary leave replacements); or (c) support our operations, including to deliver 24-hour multilingual customer support and trust and safety support coverage. In 2021 Etsy established a set of aspirational guidelines that we strive to make progress towards when engaging vendor partners to support our operations. We intend to use these guidelines as a north star as we work to integrate our subsidiaries in the year ahead. The guidelines include: Ensuring our contractors receive a progressive living wage, adjusted for market conditions, based on location. Using our leverage with vendor partners to achieve a progressive and flexible paid leave policy for all full-time contractors, including vacation time, sick time, and gender-neutral parental leave. Ensuring all full-time contractors have access to quality medical care for themselves and their dependents. 2021 Marketplace DEI Goal: Ensure our marketplaces are diverse, welcoming, and inclusive places to sell and shop. By 2021, define a key performance indicator and establish a baseline for marketplace diversity and inclusivity. Marketplace DEI In 2021, we worked to ensure that the images we proactively created and shared in our Etsy.com marketplace were representative of the communities in which we live by committing to a policy to include at least 30% representation of black or brown skin tones in marketing assets. In 2021, 43% of the images with a human element developed by our Etsy marketplace creative team had black or brown skin tone representation. Our Etsy marketplace Give More Than a Gift ad campaign, which aired across the United States during the holiday season, showcased our commitment to diversity and inclusion by featuring Black, Latinx, and LGBTQ community members and storylines. Highlighting Diversity as a Core Component of our Brand We embedded diversity into our everyday work to highlight that it is a core component of who Etsy is as a brand and company. We featured and celebrated Black, Latinx, and AAPI owned shops during a time when supporting small businesses was more important than ever before, and we created a Black-owned Business Etsy Community where sellers can opt-in, build community, and support one another. 2022 Marketplace DEI Goals: Build a welcoming marketplace that is diverse, inclusive, and broadly representative of the communities it serves. At Etsy.com, include at least 45% Black and Brown skin tones in marketing assets in the United States and highlight historically marginalized groups. Social Innovation 2021 Goal: Foster economic and personal empowerment among our stakeholders. Invest in social programs that promote economic opportunities for creative entrepreneurs and, for Reverb, provide musical education to people in need. This year represented a major expansion of Etsys investments to increase pathways to creative entrepreneurship, especially for those from economically disenfranchised communities. Etsy understands the critical role creative entrepreneurship can play in building economic independence and freedom for communities and has long been committed to utilizing our marketplace to help anyone with a creative idea build a business online. This commitment was further solidified through the launch of the Uplift Initiative, a diverse set of programs focused on supporting creative entrepreneurs facing challenges such as lack of access to an internet connection or limited digital skills and capital to grow their businesses. The multifaceted initiative includes efforts to fund organizations supporting makers with critical programs and resources to grow their businesses online, expand our direct efforts to harness the power of our marketplace to enhance the visibility of and drive sales for historic artisan communities, and enable our customers to increase their support of small businesses through rounding up their purchases to give back. Through the Uplift Initiative, we: Established the Uplift Fund to support creative entrepreneurs, which has since received over 6.8 million contributions from U.S. buyers on the Etsy marketplace who have elected to round-up their order price and donate their change. Launched the Uplift Makers program to help create opportunities for economic independence for heritage artisans by bringing their products online. Over $550,000 in sales has been generated by the 35 participating shops. Reverb also continues to drive resources to under-resourced communities globally through Reverb Gives. Provided access to musical equipment through almost $200,000 in credits. 2022 Goals: Leverage our marketplaces platforms to drive equitable access to creative pursuits and economic opportunity. Etsy.com: Expand pathways to creative entrepreneurship for economically disenfranchised communities by increasing access to digital business resources, capital, and customers. Reverb: Create a more inclusive music industry by expanding access to musical instruments and music education. Depop: Provide educational resources and mentorship opportunities to help entrepreneurs, creatives, or small businesses from underrepresented groups grow their businesses sustainably. 26 Table of Contents Workforce Metrics Our mission is to Keep Commerce Human. Our DEI goals are integral to who we are as a company: namely, marketplaces and workplaces that are made stronger by the unique and special qualities of our communities. We are committed to transparent reporting on workforce diversity. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Overall metrics include all employees globally. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Engineering employees are defined as those employees who work within the Engineering Job Family Group. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics, and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Other Business Roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics represent our global employee base, while race and ethnicity metrics represent U.S. employees only. 2019, 2020, and 2021 metrics include both Etsy and Reverb employees and exclude Elo7 and Depop employees. Our Board of Directors also affirmed its dedication to diversity in 2020, committing to actively seek out diverse director candidates to include in the pool from which nominees are chosen. Etsy expects to provide additional disclosures on Board of Directors diversity in our Proxy Statement for our 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Etsy has also provided our 2020 consolidated equal employment opportunity (EEO-1) report on our Investor Relations website. BOARD OF DIRECTORS OVERALL LEADERSHIP TECH ENGINEERING OTHER BUSINESS ROLES Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. 27 Table of Contents RACE & ETHNICITY METRICS - U.S. ONLY Board Overall Leadership Tech Engineering Other Business Roles 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 2019 2020 2021 American Indian or Alaska Native % % 0.1% 0.2% 0.1% % 0.7% % % 0.1% 0.2% % % 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% % Asian % % 15.3% 17.5% 18.9% 15.5% 14.4% 15.6% 21.1% 25.6% 24.7% 20% 22.6% 24.2% 7.7% 8.0% 9.8% Black/African American 12.5% 22.2% 5.2% 5.9% 6.1% 2.7% 5.8% 6.1% 4.6% 5% 5.4% 5.1% 5.5% 5.6% 5.9% 7.2% 7.2% Hispanic % % 5.2% 6.1% 6.3% 1.8% 2.2% 3.3% 4.7% 4.6% 5% 5.5% 5.5% 5.6% 5.7% 8% 8.5% Two or More Races % % 3.1% 3.4% 3.7% 2.7% 3.6% 2.2% 3.6% 4.2% 3.9% 4.1% 4.4% 4.4% 2.4% 2.5% 3.1% White 87.5% 77.8% 64.6% 63.0% 61.2% 72.7% 71.9% 70.0% 58.8% 56.4% 57% 58.4% 57.5% 55.6% 72.1% 70.6% 67.8% Not Declared % % 6.5% 3.8% 3.7% 4.6% 1.4% 2.8% 7.2% 4% 3.8% 6.9% 4.6% 4.4% 6% 3.3% 3.6% AGE METRICS - GLOBAL 2019 2020 2021 24 years and younger 4.3% 3.3% 3.0% 25-29 years 27.6% 25.3% 23.5% 30-34 years 34.9% 33.6% 33.5% 35-39 years 19.5% 21.4% 22.3% 40-49 years 11.0% 12.9% 14.4% 50+ years 2.7% 3.3% 3.1% Not Declared % 0.2% 0.2% Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. 28 Table of Contents Governance Fostering a culture of ethics and accountability Responsible Marketplace Practices The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among our buyer and seller communities are the cornerstones of Etsys business. For more information, please see Part 1, Item 1, Business Primary Business Drivers Trust & Safety of this Annual Report. Thoughtful Corporate Governance Our corporate governance practices include an independent Board Chair, a fully independent Board of Directors (except for our CEO), independent Committee members, sophisticated and fully engaged directors with different areas of relative expertise and additional dimensions of diversity, and a balanced distribution of director tenure, including two new directors appointed in 2021. For a more complete description of our corporate governance practices, please refer to our Proxy Statement for the 2022 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. More information on our governance policies and guidelines is available at the Investor Relations section of our website. Integrated ESG Reporting We strive to continue to innovate and evolve our ESG disclosures to hold ourselves accountable and transparently engage with all of our stakeholders. Since 2018, weve shared our ESG metrics alongside our financial results in our Integrated Annual Report. This practice is intended to ensure that were transparent about and accountable for progress against our environmental and social goals. Risk Oversight & Management One of the key functions of our Board of Directors is to provide informed oversight of our risk management processes. While management is responsible for day-to-day management of material risks we face, our Board of Directors maintains ultimate responsibility for risk oversight. Since 2019, Etsy has had a Risk Steering Committee, which consists of a cross-functional management team that meets regularly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy. Periodic reports on material risk are provided to the full Board of Directors. The Risk Steering Committee also periodically considers areas of new or evolving risks and works to understand risk analyses and establish appropriate mitigation plans. For more information on risk oversight generally, please see Board Oversight of Risk in Etsys Proxy Statement. For information on how we manage our climate related risks, please refer to our complete TCFD response beginning on page 33 of this Annual Report. 29 Table of Contents SASB Disclosure The Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsys disclosures are designed to provide comparable and consistent data. We have included below the metrics from SASBs Consumer Goods Sector E-Commerce industry standard that are relevant to our business. SASB Metrics SASB Code Metric 2019 2020 2021 CG-EC-000.A Entity-defined measure of user activity Active buyers (thousands) 46,351 81,898 96,336 Active sellers (thousands) 2,699 4,365 7,522 CG-EC-000.B Data processing capacity In December 2017, Etsy announced our Google Cloud Partnership, an initiative to transition Etsy.com infrastructure to Google Cloud Platform (GCP). In February 2020, we completed our full migration to GCP for Etsy.com. We believe this transition and our continued investments to better leverage GCP will continue to result in increased engineering efficiency, and enhance our overall infrastructure by providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble fulfillment to capacity on an as needed basis. Percentage outsourced 100% 100% 100% Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management CG-EC-130a.1 Total energy consumed, MWh 6,376 5,675 5,362 Percentage renewable energy 89% 100% 100% Percentage grid electricity 100% 100% 100% CG-EC-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs. For 2021 we continued to meet our goal to source 100% renewable electricity for our operations, and we have a 2025 goal to reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25%. These goals are included as key considerations as we plan for our computing needs, and have been a focus of our sustainability efforts. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected Google Cloud, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity. Their highly efficient data centers have helped us save significant overhead energy. We achieved a 27% reduction in total energy use from computing between 2018 and 2021, despite substantial growth in our business over the same time period. We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure. In 2021, our collocated data center, which closed in mid-2021, consumed 302 MWh and we estimate that our energy consumption in Google Cloud was 5,060 MWh, based on a methodology developed by Etsy and reviewed by industry experts. Quantification of our cloud energy consumption is allowing us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. Our 2021 hardware infrastructure footprint does not include Reverb, Depop, or Elo7, but we do include the emissions from Reverbs hardware infrastructure in our Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services calculations. In 2018, Etsy entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy in Virginia. This project is providing us with renewable attributes to apply to our operations and computing infrastructure, furthering our goals of creating a cleaner internet and reducing our impact on the planet. Data Privacy and Advertising Standards CG-EC-220a.2 Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy . We care deeply about privacy and were committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsys Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Etsys Transparency Report also includes details of our Privacy Principles. Among other things, our Privacy Policy covers the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to this data including based on type and sensitivity by region and worldwide, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy, its affiliates and third party partners, disclosures about third party partner privacy policy and options, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third parties. 30 Table of Contents SASB Metrics SASB Code Metric 2019 2020 2021 Data Security CG-EC-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks. Data security is overseen by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) who reports to our Chief Technology Officer (CTO). We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, continuous testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees. Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance CG-EC-330a.1 Employee engagement as a percentage (Etsy) 76% 81% 75% Employee engagement as a percentage (Reverb) 75% 75% Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology. In May 2021 , Etsy conducted an engagement survey of all global employees. Of all employees surveyed across Etsy and Reverb, 90% submitted a response, and 75% of Etsy respondents and 75% of Reverb respondents reported favorable employee engagement. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 61 questions - 56 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, two free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response, and three multiple choice questions. The responses were analyzed against the results from a similar survey conducted in 2020, as well as Culture Amps New Tech 2021, which consists of survey results from approximately 900 companies that are primarily internet-based or focused on creating new technologies, and that have between 20 and 20,000 employees. CG-EC-330a.3 Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functions See Impact Strategy section for detailed metrics. Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performance See Impact Strategy - Social Impact for details. CG-EC-330a.4 Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders 3.5% 5.1% 5.6% Product Packaging and Distribution CG-EC-410a.1 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO 2 e 154,078 303,218 363,361 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of packaging in metric tons CO 2 e 53,489 63,645 CG-EC-410a.2 Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery. The delivery of products sold on our marketplace represents the majority of Etsys carbon footprint. As a peer-to-peer marketplace, Etsy does not directly control seller shipping or the associated logistics networks; however, we are committed to addressing carbon emissions from shipping and packaging. Since 2019, we have offset 100% of emissions generated from shipping through investments in verified emissions reductions. This allows us to take immediate action while we work toward our Net Zero goal. In 2021, we enhanced our Shop Local signal on listing pages when a buyer is in the same ship-from region as an item. Local purchases can play a significant role in reducing carbon emissions from shipping. In addition, we take action in support of policy solutions that will help to drive carbon reduction from product delivery in the long term. In 2021, we prioritized advocating for ambitious regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation. We are especially focused on electrification infrastructure and heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that play an important role in e-commerce logistics. In 2021, we launched a new partnership with EcoEnclose, through which U.S. sellers can access and buy affordable, paper-based packaging made from certified responsibly sourced and 100% recycled materials that buyers can also recycle easily at home. We continue to collaborate with peers, vendors, and NGOs on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector. 31 Table of Contents Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Summary (tCO 2 e) GHG Emissions by Scope 2019 2020 2021 Scope 1 371 294 350 Scope 2 - Market 652 4 0 Scope 2 - Location 1,859 914 420 Scope 3 155,967 438,731 548,900 Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity Source Category 1: Purchased Goods & Services Purchased Goods & Services (excluding Computing) 76,451 97,302 Cloud Computing - GCP (Etsy Only) 13,623 Other Computing 488 466 Category 3: Fuel & Energy Related Activities Fuel & Energy Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 2,711 Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations Waste 13 3 3 Water 6 9 4 Category 6: Business Travel Air Travel 1,217 153 67 Other Business Travel 10 9 Category 7: Employee Commuting Commuting 510 111 83 Remote Workers 672 1,066 Category 8: Upstream Leased Assets Cloud Computing - GCP (Etsy Only) 29 0 Category 9: Downstream Transportation & Distribution Shipping 154,078 303,218 363,361 Packaging 53,489 63,645 Category 11: Use of Sold Products End User Energy Use 4,127 6,560 Reverbs footprint has been accounted for from the date of acquisition in 2019 forward and, unless otherwise stated, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions for all periods shown include both Etsy and Reverb. Our 2019 GHG emissions for Shipping and Cloud Computing include only Etsy. For all periods presented, emissions generated from our co-located data centers are included in Scope 2 emissions. In 2020, we expanded our inventory to account for the Scope 3 GHG emissions from: (1) the packaging our sellers use to ship products to buyers, (2) the use of our platforms on consumers personal devices, and (3) our corporate supply chain. As part of our continued commitment to maintain accountability for our GHG emissions, in 2021, we further expanded the scope of our measured and reported GHG emissions inventory and refined the methodologies used to calculate our Scope 3 GHG emissions: (1) in Scope 3 - Category 3, we captured GHG emissions from fuel and energy related activities not already included in Scope 1 and 2, (2) we updated the supplier spend data, emission factors, and categorizations included in our Scope 3 - Category 1 emissions calculations, resulting in higher emissions year-over-year. (3) we reclassified emissions generated from GCP cloud computing from Scope 3 - Category 8 to Scope 3 - Category 1. As part of the recategorization of cloud computing, we now include an estimate of our suppliers Scope 3 emissions, resulting in higher emissions. Furthermore, we break out emissions from other computing for further transparency about our usage, (4) we no longer differentiate between Scope 3 - Market and Scope 3 - Location-based emissions and instead provide current and historical data for what we had formerly considered Scope 3 - Market-based emissions, and (5) we apply renewable energy certificates to our employees working from home electricity usage in Category 7. We have revised our 2020 Purchased Goods and Services calculations from 42,646 tCO2e to 76,939 tCO2e (488 tCO2e in Other Computing and 76,451 tCO2e in all other Purchased Goods and Services). This revised calculation corrects for the inclusion of additional Scope 3 emission factors for certain suppliers and updated supplier spend data. We invested in 34,293 additional VERs to offset the additional measured GHG emissions. As a result of the above changes in scope, methodology, and our continued efforts at further accountability, some categories of emissions data are not comparable from year to year. Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. 32 Table of Contents The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Etsy treats climate change and its related impacts seriously. As part of our deepening management of climate impacts, in 2020, we began providing enhanced climate-related disclosures using the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) as a guide. The following section reflects our climate-specific reporting aligned with the TCFD. While we have identified and disclosed a number of relevant climate-related risks, we have determined that at this time none of these risks represent a material short-term risk to our business. For a discussion of certain of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. TCFD provides a framework with four thematic areas Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets and eleven recommended disclosures. The following disclosures provide information intended to address each recommendation, including references to other publicly available sources for related information. Unless otherwise noted as relating to Etsy.com, information in this section applies to Etsy, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. Governance Board of Directors oversight of climate-related risks & opportunities Etsys full Board of Directors has overall responsibility for oversight of risk management at Etsy, including management of climate risk. The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (the N&CGC) of our Board of Directors provides that the N&CGC has responsibility for periodic review of our environmental and social Impact goals and our progress towards those goals. We report on our progress towards our Impact goals to the N&CGC or the full Board of Directors two times a year. The full Board of Directors also receives briefings, generally quarterly, on risk management-related topics, including reports on the activities of Etsys Risk Steering Committee. (For a description of the Risk Steering Committees activities, see below.) The full Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing significant acquisitions and other large scale capital expenditures. One of the criteria we use when evaluating acquisition opportunities is whether the transaction aligns with our mission, strategy, and values, including our Impact focus. In addition, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the disclosure in our Annual Report, which includes these climate-related and Impact disclosures, and our auditors review of our Impact disclosures. One member of our Board of Directors is experienced in advancing sustainability accounting practices and is a Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) FSA Credential Holder. Information about Etsy, Inc.s Board of Directors and its Committees, including their charters and membership, is available in the Governance section of our investor relations website. Managements role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities Our Executive Team, including our CEO and CFO, review our environmental goals annually. Our CFO approves material capital expenditures, including those related to climate-related issues, such as renewable energy projects, and investments in verified emissions reductions. Oversight of climate risk at Etsy.com is supported by the Risk Steering Committee, a cross functional management team which includes our CEO and CFO. This Committee meets at least quarterly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy.com, including any material climate-related risks, and reports on those risks to the full Board of Directors. Etsy, Inc.s Sustainability team, led by the Senior Director of Impact and Sustainability (the I&S Sr. Director), oversees Etsys sustainability strategy and implementation, which includes climate impacts. The I&S Sr. Director reports to the VP of Workplace and Strategic Sourcing, who reports to the Chief Operations, Strategy & People Officer, who is the Executive Sponsor for Etsys Impact strategy. The I&S Sr. Director presents progress on environmental metrics each quarter to the Senior Leadership Team, including the CEO and CFO. The Impact Strategy Coordination Group, a cross-functional working group led by the I&S Sr. Director, coordinates ESG strategy and initiatives and meets bi-weekly. Etsy also has four cross-functional Impact Working Groups that all meet at least quarterly to manage the implementation of Impact projects and reporting. Etsy.com engages employees from across the company on climate and ESG topics through internal programming, such as an external speaker series and office hours with the Sustainability Team. The CEO includes climate progress updates in company-wide presentations at least once per year, ensuring all employees are aware of Etsys sustainability priorities and initiatives. 33 Table of Contents Strategy Climate-related risks and opportunities identified & impact on strategy Etsys climate strategy is informed by periodic identification and prioritization of climate-related risks and opportunities. Our 2021 Etsy.com climate impact analysis considered transition and physical impacts across seven key geographic markets and one key commodity and both our physical operations as well as the Etsy.com marketplace. For transition impacts, we reviewed clean energy, transportation, and low-carbon building technologies and policies; for physical impacts, we evaluated a range of acute and chronic hazards. Several potential climate issues were initially identified through desk research, peer benchmarking, and workshops with experts across Etsy.coms business, including Engineering, Fulfillment, Corporate Strategic Sourcing, Advocacy, Legal, Strategy and Operations, Investor Relations, and Research. These issues were evaluated based on stakeholder awareness, operational impact, and strategic impact to determine the short-list for further analysis. Our 2021 climate impact analysis did not identify any risks with material short-term impact on financial or strategic business operations. We believe that this is largely due to Etsy.coms marketplace model, the wide geographic distribution of our seller and buyer base, and our long-standing work to mitigate climate risks. However, due to the systemic nature of climate change and its intensifying global impacts, we are continuing to monitor and manage both climate-related risks and opportunities. The following disclosures highlight the identified climate-related impacts, as well as the ways in which our ESG strategy seeks to mitigate risks and leverage opportunities. We define short-term impacts as those expected to occur within 0-2 years, medium-term impacts as those expected to occur within 2-5 years, and long-term impacts as those expected to occur after 5 or more years. Etsys 2022 ESG goal-setting process considered these climate-related impacts. Identified Climate Opportunities & Management Response Class Opportunity Description Horizon Management Response Energy Source The availability of renewable energy mechanisms presents opportunities to reduce our exposure to fossil fuel price increases and reduce operating costs. Short-Term 100% Renewable Electricity Recognizing this opportunity, we set a goal in 2016 to source 100% of electricity from renewable energy, which we achieved for 2020. Through a 15-year virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA), we procure solar energy in the PJM Interconnection market that covers 100% of the electricity used in our office and computing operations. We intend to continue to source 100% of electricity from renewable sources through a mix of onsite renewables, utility contracts, and our VPPA. Resource Efficiency Reducing resource use across our facilities offers opportunities to reduce operating costs while strengthening employee engagement and thus improving retention. Short-Term Energy Efficiency We are on track to achieving a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use for Etsy.com offices and computing by 2025. Energy efficiency reduces operating costs and mitigates the risk of potential fuel price increases. Our energy efficiency goals also present opportunities for our Sustainable Compute Working Group to innovate on new energy efficiency tools and processes and to enhance brand value through vendor partnerships, including through an open-source energy data visualization platform. Zero Waste Etsy.com maintains Zero Waste operations globally, diverting over 90% of waste from landfill, which reduces operating costs and strengthens employee engagement. Reverb and Depop have a goal to run zero waste operations by 2025. Resource Efficiency Regulatory policies that promote lower-emission modes of transport support our goals of achieving emissions reductions in shipping, which may present benefits to our reputation and help drive revenue growth. Medium-Term Low-Emissions Transport A significant portion of our Scope 3 emissions come from shipping. We recognize that decarbonization of the transportation sector presents an opportunity for us to achieve ambitious emissions reduction goals and strengthen our reputation. Our Advocacy Team advocates for key regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector and drive significant market transformation. We are especially focused on policies in the United States that aim to improve electrification infrastructure and reduce emissions from heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that play an important role in e-commerce logistics. Reputation Changing consumer preferences around sustainable shopping present opportunities for us to further differentiate as a values-driven commerce brand through climate-friendly product offerings. Medium-Term Customer Engagement In 2021, we set a goal to establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably-minded shoppers and conscious living. We launched a Planet-Friendly Packaging initiative giving sellers the option to purchase Etsy-branded packaging made from 100% recycled materials or certified responsibly sourced paper at competitive prices, which signals to buyers that they are supporting sustainable businesses. We launched a Personal Impact Tracker that allows buyers to understand how their past purchases contribute to the cumulative social and environmental impact of Etsy.com. Reputation Strengthening and communicating our Impact work including emissions reduction initiatives presents an opportunity to attract and retain talent and enhance investor relations. Short-Term Investors We continue to provide robust ESG disclosures for investors, which we believe positions us to meet expanded and standardized ESG reporting expectations. 34 Table of Contents Identified Climate Risks & Management Response Category Class Risk Description Horizon Management Response Physical Acute & Chronic Acute and chronic weather events may: affect sellers ability to make items and source supplies, which may result in reduced revenue. disrupt transportation routes and internet or mobile networks, hindering the ability of sellers to list and have items delivered in a timely manner, which may ultimately reduce buyer demand and revenue. put our physical offices at risk, or negatively impact the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers. Medium- and Long- Term Seller Operations As natural disasters, exacerbated by climate change, increase in intensity and frequency, we are finding opportunities to educate and engage sellers on lower-emission packaging including through our new Planet-Friendly Packaging program. Additionally, since 2017, we have partnered with CERF+ to offer disaster relief grants for Etsy.com U.S.-based sellers who have seen their ability to produce and/or market their work adversely affected by a natural disaster. In the future, we aim to engage sellers on lower-emission production and climate resiliency planning. Product Distribution Our 2021 climate impact assessment indicated disruption of key transportation routes by extreme weather events could impact item delivery. We aim to better understand how common distribution routes, which are used by carriers chosen by our sellers, might be impacted by weather events in the future. Etsys Operations Our Workplace and Security Team develops and implements business continuity plans through our Health, Safety, and Security program that are intended to protect our employees in the event of physical disruptions at our offices. In 2021, the Workplace and Security Team reviewed our climate scenario analysis to better understand climate risks at critical office locations and integrate information into planning moving forward. Transition Policy and Legal/ Tech New laws, liabilities, and regulations could increase direct operational costs to us in the short-term while stricter environmental regulations may place new burdens on our sellers raising their costs in the medium-term. Short and Medium-Term TCFD Reporting We began our TCFD reporting journey in 2020 and plan to further align our climate analysis and reporting with the framework in anticipation of new SEC climate disclosure requirements. Regulations on Sellers Our Advocacy Team works to mitigate transition risks for sellers by advocating to advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs. Market Increased commodity prices due to climate change impacts may increase production costs for sellers. Long-Term Commodity Markets Our scenario analysis indicated that the availability of common commodities used in seller production, such as cotton, may face risks due to flooding, drought, and extreme heat. To understand the degree to which this climate risk impacts our business, we aim to more deeply explore climate impacts on the commodity inputs most commonly used by sellers. Because our marketplace features a broad assortment of items, we do not anticipate disproportionate short-term impacts on our business. Reputation Customer and investor expectations of the role of corporations in society may grow beyond our current Impact efforts. Failure to meet employee expectations on Impact could affect recruitment, retention, and engagement of top talent. Medium-Term Customer and Investor Perceptions We have already achieved or are on track to achieve many of our ambitious sustainability goals, including 100% renewable electricity and emissions reductions. We believe our continued efforts to reduce our environmental impact, improve ESG reporting, and engage our marketplace in sustainable shopping initiatives give us a competitive advantage. Resilience of strategy across different climate-related scenarios To understand how our top climate-related risks and opportunities might change under different temperature pathways over time, in 2021, we engaged a consulting partner, Manifest Climate, to conduct a qualitative scenario analysis across seven key geographic markets. As part of this process, exposure pathways were mapped for prioritized climate-related issues based on Etsy.coms business model, data availability, and internal stakeholder input. Manifest used a range of representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios, with the lowest emissions scenario being RCP2.6 and the highest emission scenario being RCP8.5, as well as models and reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). To assess net-zero transition impacts, we leveraged policy insights from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and Inevitable Policy Response (IPR). Available climate scenario inputs and results were then collated and overlaid with Etsy.coms seller and buyer information in key geographies, allowing the analysis to pinpoint areas of concern. Through this analysis we found that all key geographies are expected to face some degree of climate risk under different scenarios. For example, buyers and sellers in Australia may be subject to more intense heat waves and wildfires, while buyers and sellers in Germany may be vulnerable to increasing frequency and severity of floods. However, because Etsy.coms buyer and seller base is distributed globally, we did not find climate risks in any one geography that disproportionately impact Etsy.coms business under any scenario. We aim to continue improving our data collection and analysis on these topics to update our strategic planning. 35 Table of Contents Risk Management Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Our climate risk identification and assessment process is integrated into our company-wide risk management process. Our Sustainability Team, including the I&S Sr. Director and the Senior Sustainability Manager, engages with key business functions to identify and evaluate climate risks that could have a substantive financial or strategic impact on the organization at least annually. The Sustainability Team and internal subject matter experts analyze risks in the context of our business, develop recommendations as appropriate, and escalate them for oversight by senior management through Etsy, Inc.s Risk Steering Committee (see Governance in this section above for more detail). For example, the Sustainability Team collaborates with the Advocacy Team to review climate policy proposals at the federal and state level that might impact Etsy, and, if relevant, presents new climate-related regulations that could increase Etsy, Inc.s or its sellers operating costs to the Risk Steering Committee. The Sustainability Team also leverages data from the Market Research Team to monitor the impact of weather events on seller operations. Processes for managing climate-related risks The Sustainability Team works cross-functionally to develop management plans to address potential climate-related impacts. They develop and propose updates to environmental goals on an annual basis, including goals designed to mitigate climate risks, which are reviewed and approved by our Executive Team. For example, our goal to source 100% renewable electricity for office operations and computing load, which was achieved for 2020, reduces our exposure to carbon pricing and increased fossil fuel costs. The Sustainability Team developed the goal, proposed short-term targets and strategies to measure and reach those targets, and solicited approval from the Executive Team, who ensured resources were provisioned and lines of accountability were appropriately set. See the Strategy section above for a discussion of actions taken in response to other identified climate risks. Processes for integrating climate-related risks into the overall risk management At Etsy, Inc., climate-related risks are included within ESG risks and are seen as underlying drivers of other types of risks. These risks, as well as their drivers, are monitored by the Risk Steering Committee. The I&S Sr. Director provides a written status update on potential ESG risks, including climate risks, to Etsys Risk Steering Committee every two months, and presents to the Risk Steering Committee as needed. The work of the Risk Steering Committee helps inform which risks are reported to the Board of Directors. Metrics and Targets Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with strategy and risk management process We monitor metrics related to total energy consumed, renewable energy percent, grid electricity percent, total GHG footprint of scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions including product shipments, packaging, end-user energy use, water, and outgoing waste material streams. For a historical view of our metrics, please view pages 30-32 of this Annual Report. Since 2019, Etsy.com has been a carbon neutral business, offsetting 100% of our unabated carbon emissions across all measured Scope 1, 2, and 3 categories each year. Our commitment to maintain carbon neutrality effectively acts as an internal price on our emissions, creating a financial incentive to support business decisions that reduce greenhouse gas emissions, from driving operational efficiencies to integrating sustainability into our procurement process. We continue to act in support of solutions that will help drive carbon reduction in the long term, including advocating at the federal and state level for comprehensive climate and carbon reduction policies and collaborating with peers on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector. For all of our teams, compensation is tied to the companys financial performance, as well as individual contributions. While responsibility for delivering on our Impact goals is distributed across the company, each goal owner is responsible for incorporating work associated with advancing their goal into team members individual goals, which is in turn directly tied to compensation. Members of our Executive Team also serve as executive sponsors for specific Impact goals to help ensure teams stay on track and have the value of executive leadership as plans are executed. Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks Please view pages 22-23 and 30-32 of this Annual Report for our GHG Emissions Summary. Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets Etsy has five climate-related targets: science-based emissions reduction, carbon neutrality, renewable energy, total energy use, and waste. Details of these targets including actions taken to achieve them and performance against each can be found on pages 22-23 of this Annual Report. 36 Table of Contents Competition For all of our marketplaces, sellers may choose to list their goods for sale with online retailers or sell their goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling sellers to sell from their own website or otherwise run their business independently of our platforms. We are able to compete for sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence, our meaningful investments in marketing that benefit our sellers and their growth, the number and engagement of our buyers, our seller tools and services, our seller education resources, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community, and our values. We also compete with retailers of all shapes and sizes for the attention of our buyers. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces, national retail chains, local consignment and vintage stores. resale marketplaces, or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for buyers based on the unique goods that sellers list in our marketplaces, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation for trustworthiness, the positive impact buyers can make by shopping from the creative entrepreneurs on our platform, our mobile apps, the availability of fair and free shipping offered by sellers, ease of payment, and the availability and reliability of our platform. Intellectual Property Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect us and our intellectual property. We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect our brands from misuse by third parties. Government Regulation As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Compliance is costly and can require changes to our business practices and significant amounts of management time and focus. In addition, in both the United States and abroad, laws and regulations relating to the liability of online marketplaces for activities of their sellers and other third parties are being tested by a number of proceedings. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, federal and state laws in the United States, E.U. directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments and consumer protection; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. We are also subject to federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and protection of consumer information. Our privacy policies describe our practices concerning the use, storage, transmission and disclosure of personal information, including buyer and seller data. Any failure by us to comply with our policies or privacy related laws and regulations could result in proceedings against us by governmental authorities or others, which could harm our business. Many jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted laws and regulations requiring notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to practically implement. This growing focus on data privacy and regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on sellers and could subject us to significant operational costs for internal compliance and risk to our business. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect the privacy and data of our sellers and buyers could result in a loss of confidence in our marketplaces, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, some of these requirements may introduce friction into the buying and selling experience on our platforms and may impact the scope and effectiveness of our marketing efforts, which could negatively impact our business and future outlook. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption, and export control laws. Non-compliance with any applicable laws and regulations could result in penalties or significant legal liability. See Part I, Item IA, Risk Factors Regulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks. 37 Table of Contents Seasonality Etsy.com sellers experience increased sales and use more Services during the fourth-quarter holiday shopping season. This has resulted in increased GMS and revenue for us during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year, which can compare to lower GMS and revenue in the first quarter of the following fiscal year. For example, revenue in the first quarter of 2021 decreased when compared with revenue in the fourth quarter of 2020. We expect this seasonality to continue in future years. Our cost of revenue and marketing expenses also follow this trend, with the highest costs corresponding with the fourth quarter and lower costs in the first quarter of each fiscal year. As our growth rates moderate, the impact of these seasonality trends on our results of operations may become more pronounced. Our quarterly revenue increased sequentially quarter-to-quarter for all periods within 2021, other than the first quarter of 2021, generally corresponding to our GMS performance in the same periods. We cannot assure you that this pattern of sequential revenue and GMS growth will continue. We believe that it is generally more meaningful to compare year-over-year results than sequential quarter-over-quarter results. Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), and file or furnish reports, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, proxy statements, and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). These reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. We also share certain workforce metrics, such as our most recent consolidated EEO-1 report, information derived from our annual Seller Census, our annual Transparency Report, and our external facing policies, including our governance policies and guidelines, privacy policy and marketplace rules on our investor relations website. Information contained on or accessible through our websites is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites in this Annual Report are intended to be inactive textual references only. You should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com, or by calling (347) 382-7582. Our SEC reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. 38 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factor s . Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. In addition, factors other than those discussed below or in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC also could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report. See Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Operational Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced rapid growth, and we may not have the infrastructure, human resources, or operational resources to sustain continued growth at our recent pace. We experienced rapid growth in our business, in the number of buyers and sellers, and purchase frequency during 2020. Our revenue growth may not be sustainable. While our growth continued in 2021, our rate of growth decelerated as compared to the rapid growth we experienced in 2020 which was driven at least in part by the pandemic-related shift to online purchasing. Even if our revenue continues to grow, we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future. In addition, our costs may increase as we continue to invest in the development of our marketplaces, including our services and technological enhancements, and as we increase our marketing efforts, expand our operations, and hire additional employees. Further, the growth of our business places significant demands on our management team and pressure to expand our operational, compliance, payments, and financial infrastructure. For example, we may need to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial, compliance, payments, and management controls and enhance our reporting systems and procedures to support our current and future growth. Our rapid growth has made and may continue to make us a more attractive target to bad actors and fraudsters targeting our marketplaces and our communities, civil litigants, and those seeking to enforce often questionable intellectual property rights. Our increased visibility has led and may continue to lead to attempts to misrepresent or mischaracterize us or our marketplaces, such as on social media, or via individual or coordinated campaigns. We may not be successful in defending against these types of claims which, if successful, could damage our brands and our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these types of claims, we may be required to spend significant resources in those efforts which may distract our management and otherwise negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the recent increased scrutiny and regulation of marketplace platforms, even though focused on other large platforms, has and may continue to create burdens on both Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. This may lead to increased risks that shift more quickly than our policies, enforcement mechanisms, and systems can react. If we do not manage our growth effectively, the increases in our operating expenses could outpace any increases in our revenue and our business could be harmed. In addition, our revenue may decline and our revenue growth rate may continue to decelerate for a number of reasons, including the abatement of the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. For further information about the rate of revenue and GMS growth, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of OperationsRevenue. You should not rely on growth rates of prior periods as an indication of our future performance. The unprecedented ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has impacted our GMS and results of operations, and the pandemic may continue to impact our GMS or our results of operations in numerous volatile and unpredictable ways. Uncertainty caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may to continue to impact the global economy, e-commerce at large, and global macroeconomic conditions that impact consumer spending. While COVID-19 vaccination efforts are ongoing, the timing, speed, acceptance, and efficacy of vaccinations along with the imposition of movement restrictions and closures vary from location to location, is evolving and, to varying degrees across locations, still remains unpredictable. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic and related government and private sector responsive actions have affected the broader economies and financial markets and have at points adversely affected, and could again adversely affect, demand for products sold in our marketplaces. It is impossible to predict all the effects and the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as the situation continues to evolve. The COVID-19 pandemic has also disrupted the global supply chain, and various preventative and protective measures currently in place, or which may be instituted or re-instituted in the future, such as quarantines, closures and movement restrictions, may interfere with the ability of our sellers to deliver products to our buyers. If delivery services are delayed or shut down or become more expensive, our GMS and revenue could be negatively impacted. Our results of operations may be materially affected by adverse conditions in the capital markets and the economy generally, both in the United States and internationally. Uncertainty in the economy could adversely impact consumer purchases of 39 Table of Contents discretionary items across all of our product categories, and demand for products available in our marketplaces may be reduced. Our results of operations have also been positively impacted by several trends related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the shift from offline to online shopping, fast moving dynamics in the e-commerce space, retail business closures and re-openings, stimulus checks, and stay at home practices or mandates. However, we have seen demand for certain items, like handmade masks, diminish significantly with the rollout of vaccines, and as medical grade masks became more widely available. It is also difficult to predict how our business might be impacted by changing consumer spending patterns as the pandemic runs its course. As pandemic-related restrictions on movement ease, competition may intensify as buyers return to traditional brick and mortar retail stores. Additionally, our sales may decline if pent-up demand for other discretionary spending replaces demand for online shopping. Other factors that could affect consumers willingness to make discretionary purchases include, among others: levels of employment, interest and core inflation rates, tax rates, housing costs, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, and any future stimulus checks. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, significant inflation, or increased supply chain shortages impacting our communities of sellers and the economy as a whole, consumer spending habits could be adversely affected, and we could experience lower than expected GMS, revenue, net income, and Adjusted EBITDA. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, our employees remain almost fully remote, and a significant number will continue to work remotely as we transition to a hybrid work model. It is possible that these arrangements could have a negative impact on the execution of our business plans and operations. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees ability to work remotely were to occur, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working for employees, vendors, or contractors may also result in increased consumer privacy, IT security, and fraud concerns. Further, as certain businesses return to on-site operations and we transition to a hybrid work model, we may experience disruptions if our employees or third-party service providers employees become ill despite the availability of vaccines, and are unable to perform their duties. Such disruptions may impact our operations, internet, or mobile networks, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers. The uncertainty around the duration of business disruptions, and the lifting or imposition of travel restrictions in the United States and other areas of the world, and consumers responses to these developments may adversely impact the national and/or global economy and negatively impact consumer discretionary spending, even in the e-commerce space, which experienced growth during the initial phases of the pandemic. The full extent of the COVID-19 pandemics impact on our operations, key metrics, and financial performance depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable, including the timing, acceptance, and efficacy of vaccinations and possible achievement of herd immunity in various locations, the timing of further relaxation, elimination, or imposition of movement and travel restrictions, the occurrence of virus mutations and variants, the pandemics impact on capital and financial markets, and any new information that may emerge concerning the virus, vaccines, and containment, all of which may vary across regions. Any of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to execute and capitalize on our strategies. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results, as well as our key metrics, may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: fluctuations in GMS or revenue, including as a result of uncertainty or changing spending patterns resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, the impact or the waning of the impact of any government actions, the seasonality of market transactions, and our sellers use of services; our ability to convert marketplace visits into sales for our sellers; the amount and timing of our operating expenses; our success in attracting and retaining sellers and buyers; our success in executing on our strategy and the impact of any changes in our strategy; the timing and success of product launches, including new services and features we may introduce; the success of our marketing efforts; the success of our acquired businesses, such as Depop and Elo7, each of which we acquired in July 2021, and Reverb, which we acquired in 2019; our ability to integrate Depop and Elo7 and implement our House of Brands strategy; adverse economic and market conditions, including those related to the current COVID-19 pandemic, currency fluctuations, rapidly rising inflation, and adverse global events; 40 Table of Contents disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, such as privacy or data security breaches, errors in our software, or other incidents that impact the availability, reliability, or performance of our platforms; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments; our ability to manage our business and future growth; and our ability to recruit and retain employees. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, key metrics, and the price of our common stock may be particularly pronounced in the current economic environment due to the uncertainty caused by, and the unprecedented nature of, the current COVID-19 pandemic, consumer spending patterns, and the impacts of reopening of the offline economy and lessening or elimination of restrictions on movement. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and key metrics may cause those results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our results could also cause a number of other problems. For example, analysts or investors might change their models for valuing our common stock, we could experience short-term liquidity issues, our ability to retain or attract key personnel may diminish, and other unanticipated issues may arise. We believe that our quarterly operating results and key metrics may vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. For example, our overall historical growth rate and the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic may have overshadowed the effect of seasonal variations on our historical operating results. These seasonal effects may become more pronounced over time, which could also cause our operating results and key metrics to fluctuate. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which would cause our stock price to decline. From time to time, we release earnings guidance in our quarterly and annual earnings conference calls, quarterly and annual earnings releases, or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represents our managements estimates as of the date of release. For example, we historically have provided annual guidance, but we withdrew our 2020 annual guidance on April 2, 2020 given the economic uncertainty caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and have been providing only quarterly guidance since. On February 24, 2022, we provided guidance for the first quarter of 2022 . This guidance includes forward-looking statements based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are based on information known when they are issued, and, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies relating to our business, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. Some of those key assumptions include the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and its duration, particularly as SARS-CoV-2 variants spread, COVID-19 vaccines and therapies become widely available, and restrictions on movement are lifted or reinstated, future consumer spending patterns, and the associated economic uncertainty on our business. These assumptions are inherently difficult to predict, particularly in the long term. In addition, we completed the acquisition of Elo7 on July 2, 2021 and Depop on July 12, 2021. While all guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, guidance relating to the anticipated results of operations of a recently acquired business is inherently more speculative in nature than other guidance as management will, necessarily, be less familiar with the business, procedures, and operations of the recently acquired business. It can be expected that some or all of the assumptions regarding Depop and Elo7 underlying any guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. Furthermore, analysts and investors may develop and publish their own projections of our business, which may form a consensus about our future performance. Our actual business results may vary significantly from such guidance or that consensus due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including due to the global economic uncertainty and financial market conditions caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and the impacts of reduced movement or the removal of restrictions on movement, which could adversely affect our business and future operating results. There are no comparable recent events that provide insights on the probable effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and, as a result, the ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We are relying on the reports and models of economic and medical experts in making assumptions relating to the duration of this crisis, lifting or imposition of restrictions on movement in various regions and predictions as to timing and pace of any future economic recovery. If these models are incorrect or incomplete, or if we fail to accurately predict the full impact that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic will have on all aspects of our business or the duration of those impacts, the guidance and other forward-looking statements we provide may also be incorrect or incomplete. Furthermore, if we make downward revisions of our previously announced guidance, or if our publicly announced guidance of future operating results fails to meet expectations of securities analysts, investors, or other interested parties, the price of our common stock could decline. Given the uncertainty surrounding the impacts and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, the efficacy of vaccines, the impacts of current or new variants of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and the timing and impact of the easing or reimposition of restrictions on movement, we may continue to provide more limited quarterly guidance, as we did in 2020 and 2021. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not 41 Table of Contents materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged not to rely upon our guidance in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances set forth in this Risk Factors section in this report could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. If we experience a technology disruption or failure that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about members of our communities or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against software and hardware vulnerabilities, service interruptions, cyber incidents, ransomware, security incidents, or security breaches, then members of our communities may curtail use of our platforms, we may be exposed to liability or incur additional expenses, and our reputation could suffer. Like all online services, we are vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures, and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, intentional or accidental actions or inactions by employees or others with authorized access to our networks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, ransomware, and other cyber incidents. Any of these occurrences could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of one or more of our platforms, loss of data, or unauthorized disclosure of personal or financial information of our members or employees. As we grow our business, expand internationally, and gain greater public visibility, we may face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber attacks. Although we have integrated a variety of recovery systems, security protocols, network protection mechanisms and other security measures into our systems, networks and physical facilities, which are designed to protect against, detect and minimize security breaches, including security testing, encryption of sensitive information, and authentication technology, we cannot assure you that such measures will be adequate to prevent or detect service interruption, system failure, data loss or theft, or other material adverse consequences, particularly given the increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers, organized cyber criminals, and cyber terrorists. While we are investing in recovery systems, security and access controls, and assessments of our vendors security for us and our recently acquired subsidiaries, these systems and controls are not yet fully in place and, even when in place, have not always been in the past, and in the future may not be, sufficient to prevent or detect a cyber attack, system failure, or security breach. In addition, we have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, technology disruptions, cyber incidents, and security breaches, including intentional, inadvertent, or social engineering breaches occurring through our employees or employees of our third-party service providers. As in the past, if our employees or employees of our third-party service providers fail to comply with our internal security policies and practices, member or employee data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. Our security and access controls for our systems may not be adequate, which may heighten the risk of a cyber attack or security breach. Among other things, our applications, systems, networks, software and physical facilities could have material vulnerabilities, be breached or the personal or confidential information that we store could be otherwise compromised due to employee error or malfeasance, if, for example, third parties attempt to fraudulently induce our employees or our members to disclose information or user names and/or passwords, or otherwise compromise the security of our networks, systems and/or physical facilities. As in the past, employees or service providers may inadvertently misconfigure resources or misdirect certain communications in manners that may lead to security incidents on which we must then expend effort and expenses to correct. We moved to a fully remote work environment due to the COVID-19 pandemic and are transitioning to a hybrid work environment where a portion of our workforce will remain fully remote. In addition, the industry is generally moving to online remote infrastructure for core work. As a result, we and our partners may be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Cyber attacks could also result in the theft of our intellectual property or user data. A successful cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. Because the techniques used by hackers change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, because any investigation of a cybersecurity incident would be inherently unpredictable, the extent of a particular cybersecurity incident and the path of investigating the incident may not be immediately clear. It may take a significant amount of time before an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, and communication to the public, regulators, members of our communities, and other stakeholders may be inaccurate, any or all of which could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident. Applicable rules regarding how to respond, required notices to users, and reporting to regulators vary by jurisdiction, and may subject Etsy to additional liability and reputational harm. Our production systems rely on internal technology, along with cloud services and software provided by our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain). In the event of a cyber-incident, even partial unavailability of our production systems could impair our ability to serve our customers, manage transactions, or operate our marketplaces. We have implemented disaster recovery mechanisms, including systems to back up key data and production systems, but these systems may be inadequate or incomplete. For example, these disaster recovery systems may be susceptible to cyber-incidents if not 42 Table of Contents sufficiently separated from primary systems, not comprehensive, or not at a scale sufficient to replace our primary systems. Insufficient production and disaster recovery systems could, in the event of a cyber-incident, harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. The costs and effort to respond to a security breach and/or to mitigate any security vulnerabilities that may be identified could be significant, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, and these problems could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, negative publicity, and other harm to our business and our competitive position. We could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices in response to a security breach or related regulatory actions or litigation, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Cyber attacks aimed at disrupting our and our third-party service providers services have occurred regularly in the past, and we expect they will continue to occur in the future. If we or our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain) experience security breaches that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or the loss, compromise, or unauthorized disclosure of personal data or other sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches that we may experience, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. Existing sellers and buyers may stop listing new items for sale, decrease their purchases, or close their accounts altogether. We could also face damage to our reputation, potential liability, regulatory investigations in multiple jurisdictions, and costly remediation efforts and litigation, which may not be adequately covered by, and which may impact our future access to, insurance. Any of these results could harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. We are also reliant on the security practices of our third party service providers, which may be outside of our direct control. Additionally, some of our third party service providers, such as identity verification and payment processing providers, regularly have access to payment card information and other confidential and sensitive member data. We may have contractual and regulatory obligations to supervise the security and privacy practices of our third-party service providers. Despite our best efforts, if these third parties fail to adhere to adequate security practices, or, as has occurred from time to time in the past, experience a cyber incident or attack such as a breach of their networks, our members data may be rendered unavailable, improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. More generally, our third-party service providers may not have adequate security and privacy controls, may not properly exercise their compliance, regulatory or notification requirements, including as to personal data, or may not have the resources to properly respond to an incident. Many of our service providers continue to operate in a partial or fully remote work environment and may, as a result, be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Consequently, a security incident at any of such service providers or others in our supply chain could result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive or personal data of our buyers or sellers. Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors. The software underlying our platforms is highly interconnected and complex and may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code has been released. We rely heavily on a software engineering practice known as continuous deployment, meaning that we frequently release software code to our platforms. For the Etsy marketplace platform we typically release software code many times per day. This practice may result in the more frequent introduction of errors or vulnerabilities into the software underlying our platforms, which can impact the user experience and functionality of our marketplaces. Additionally, due to the interconnected nature of the software underlying our platforms, updates to parts of our code, third party code, and APIs, on which we rely and that maintain the functionality of our marketplaces and business, could have an unintended impact on other sections of our code, which may result in errors or vulnerabilities to our platforms that negatively impact the user experience and functionality of our marketplaces. In some cases, such as our mobile apps, errors may only be correctable through updates distributed through slower, third party mechanisms, such as app stores, and may need to comply with third party policies and procedures to be made available, which may add additional delays due to app review and user delay in updating their mobile apps. In addition, our systems are increasingly reliant on machine learning systems, which are complex and may have errors or inadequacies that are not easily detectable. These systems may inadvertently reduce the efficiency of our systems, or may cause unintentional or unexpected outputs that are incorrect, do not match our business goals, do not comply with our policies, or otherwise are inconsistent with our brands, guiding principles, and mission. Any errors or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could also result in damage to our reputation, loss of members of our communities, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our growth prospects and our business. 43 Table of Contents We rely on Google Cloud for a substantial portion of the computing, storage, data processing, networking, and other services for Etsy.com. Google Cloud Platform provides a distributed computing infrastructure as a service platform for business operations, and we have migrated Etsy.coms primary production environment and data centers to Google Cloud, increasing our reliance on cloud infrastructure. Any transition of the cloud services currently provided by Google Cloud to another cloud provider would be difficult to implement and would cause us to incur significant time and expense. Our products and services are in significant part reliant on continued access to, and the continued stability, reliability, and flexibility of Google Cloud. Any significant disruption of, or interference with, our use of Google Cloud would negatively impact our operations, and our business would be seriously harmed. In addition, if hosting costs increase over time and if we require more computing or storage capacity, our costs could increase disproportionately. If we are unable to grow our revenues faster than the cost of utilizing the services of Google or similar providers, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 rely on Amazon Web Services for some business operations, and those marketplaces are thus subject to analogous risks. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. We are focused on ensuring that our marketplaces embody our mission and values, and that we deliver trust and reliability throughout the buyer and seller experiences. Our reputation and brands depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain trustworthy marketplaces, and also upon our sellers, the quality of their offerings, their adherence to our policies, and their ability to deliver a trusted purchasing experience. We view the trustworthiness and reliability of our marketplaces, as well as the connections we foster in our buyer/seller communities, to be cornerstones of our business and key to our success. Many things could undermine these cornerstones, such as: complaints or negative publicity about us, our platforms, or our policies and guidelines, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; an inability to gain the trust of prospective buyers; disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, privacy or data security incidents, website outages, payment disruptions or other incidents that impact the reliability of our platforms; lack of awareness of our policies or confusion about how they are applied; changes to our policies that members of our communities perceive as inconsistent with their best interests or our mission, or that are not clearly articulated; inadequacies in our House Rules or terms of use; frequent product launches, updates, and experiments that could deteriorate member trust; a failure to enforce our policies effectively, consistently, and transparently, including, for example, by allowing the repeated widespread listing of prohibited items in our marketplaces; inadequate or unsatisfactory customer service experiences; a failure on the part of our sellers to fulfill their orders in accordance with our policies, their own shop-specific policies, or buyer expectations; a failure to respond to feedback from our communities; or a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our guiding principles and mission. Creating trusted brands is one of the key elements of our strategy. In particular, we are focused on enhancing the customer experience for both sellers and buyers. We continue to evolve our offerings and invest to improve our customer experience on our marketplaces. If our efforts are unsuccessful, or if our customer service platforms or our trust and safety program fail to meet our requirements, legal requirements, or our customers requirements, we may need to quickly invest significant additional resources. If we are unable to do so, our ability to maintain trustworthy marketplaces, attract buyers and sellers, and maintain our trusted brands, could be harmed. 44 Table of Contents Our business, financial performance, and growth depends on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in attracting and retaining active buyers and active sellers. For example, our revenue is driven by the number of active buyers and buyer engagement, as well as the number of active sellers and seller engagement. If we are not successful in encouraging buyers to return to us and purchase items in our marketplaces more frequently and sellers to list items for sale and use our services, our financial performance may be negatively impacted. Our GMS and revenue is concentrated in our most active buyers and sellers. The early part of the pandemic fueled an unprecedented increase in the growth of new buyers and reactivated lapsed buyers, although in recent quarters we have seen the growth rate decline on a year-over-year basis. We have also seen a higher than recent historic grow th rate of new sellers. If we lose a significant number of those buyers, or sellers, due to the abatement of pandemic restrictions, increased seller fees or otherwise, our financial performance and growth could be harmed. Even if we are able to attract new buyers and sellers to replace the ones that we lose, we may not be able to do so at recent levels, they may not maintain the same level of activity, and the GMS and revenue generated from new buyers and sellers may not be as high as the GMS and revenue generated from the ones who leave our marketplaces. If we are unable to retain existing buyers and sellers and attract new buyers and sellers who contribute to active communities, our business, financial performance, and growth could be harmed. Additionally, the demand for the goods listed in our marketplaces is dependent on consumer preferences which can change quickly and may differ across generations and cultures, or due to other macro events. If demand for the goods that our sellers offer declines, we may not be able to attract and retain our buyers and our business could be harmed. A shift in trends away from socially-conscious consumerism, second-hand fashio n, or unique or vintage goods, could also make it more difficult to attract new buyers and sellers. Our growth would also be harmed if the shift from brick and mortar retail to e-commerce does not continue, or reverses when the COVID-19 pandemic abates. We believe that many new buyers and sellers find us by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing buyers and sellers. If existing buyers do not find our platforms appealing, whether because of a negative experience, lack of competitive shipping costs, delayed shipping times, inadequate customer service, lack of buyer-friendly features, declining interest in the nature of the goods offered by our sellers, or other factors, they may make fewer purchases and they may stop referring others to us. Likewise, if existing sellers are dissatisfied with their experience on our platforms, or feel they have more attractive alternatives, they may stop listing items in our marketplaces and using our services and may stop referring others to us. Under any of these circumstances, we may have difficulty attracting new buyers and sellers without incurring additional expense. We rely on our sellers to provide a fulfilling experience to our buyers. A small portion of buyers complain to us about their experience on our platforms. As a pure marketplace, our sellers manage their shops, most policies, products and product descriptions, shipping and returns. As a result, we may not have the ability to control important aspects of buyers experiences on our platforms. For example, buyers may report that they have not received the items that they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by a seller, or that a seller has not been responsive to their questions. Similarly, we occasionally identify sellers who are unable to fulfill orders in a time frame or manner consistent with buyer expectations. Popular or trending sellers may experience an influx of orders that may be beyond their ability to fulfill in a timely manner. While we have procedures designed to mitigate spikes in orders, we cannot guarantee those procedures will be effective. Negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints, or any associated enforcement action taken against sellers, could reduce our ability to attract and retain our sellers and buyers or damage our reputation. We take action against sellers who we are aware may have violated our policies. However, our actions may be insufficient, may not be timely, and may not be effective in creating a good purchase experience for our buyers or avoiding negative publicity. As our marketplaces grow, our controls over fraud and policy violations are important to maintaining user trust, but they may not be adequate and may not be sufficient to keep up with quickly-shifting techniques used by those attempting to undertake fraudulent activity on our platforms. While we regularly update our processes for handling complaints and detecting policy violations, these processes are by their nature imperfect in a dynamic, quickly growing marketplace, and include risk to us, our sellers, and our buyers from both under-enforcement and over-enforcement. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for our sellers and buyers are inadequate could have similar results. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse our buyers for their purchases to help avoid harm to our reputation. While we take steps such as requiring reserves, including to cover such reimbursements, from some sellers based on indicia they may not be able to fulfill orders, we may not be able to recover the funds we expend for those reimbursements. When we do recover funds used to reimburse buyers from sellers, it may increase general seller dissatisfaction and reduce their desire to continue selling using our platforms. Although we are focused on enhancing customer service, our efforts may be unsuccessful and our sellers and buyers may be disappointed in their experience and not return. Anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to our buyers could harm our sellers. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of our sellers, such as interruptions in 45 Table of Contents order or payment processing, interruptions in sellers supply chain, transportation disruptions, customs delays, natural disasters, inclement weather, terrorism, public health crises, or political unrest. For example, a number of countries continue to experience delays in shipping due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and supply chain disruptions and shipping delays may become more widespread. If buyers have a negative purchase experience, whether due to delay or other reasons, our reputation could be damaged. Our business depends on third party services and technology which we utilize to maintain and scale the technology underlying our platforms and our business operations. Our business operations are dependent upon a number of third-party service providers, such as cloud service providers, marketing platforms and providers, payments and shipping providers, and contingent labor teams, and network and mobile infrastructure providers. Any disruption in their services, any failure on their part to deliver their services in accordance with our scale and expectations, or any failure on our part to maintain appropriate oversight on these third-party providers during the course of our engagement with them, could significantly harm our business. We are unable to exercise significant oversight over some of these providers, which increases our vulnerability to their financial conditions and to problems with the services they provide, such as technical failures, deprecation of key services, privacy or security concerns. Our efforts to update our infrastructure or supply chain may not be successful as we may not sufficiently distribute our risk across providers or geographies or our efforts to do so may take longer than anticipated. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or supply chain or do not expand our technology infrastructure or supply chain successfully, then our ability to run our marketplaces could be significantly impacted, which could harm our business. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third party services, platforms and infrastructure that we rely upon to maintain and scale our platforms. Our sellers and buyers rely on access to the internet or mobile networks to access our marketplaces. Internet service providers may choose to disrupt or degrade access to our platforms or increase the cost of such access. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on the ability to download and use our mobile apps. Internet service providers or mobile network operators could also attempt to charge us for providing access to our platforms. In addition, we could face discriminatory or anticompetitive practices that could impede both our and our sellers growth prospects, increase our costs, and harm our business. Outside of the United States, governments of one or more countries have in the past and may continue to seek to censor content available on our platforms, attempt to apply their local requirements extra-territorially, or may even attempt to block access to our platforms. If we are restricted from operating in one or more countries, our ability to attract and retain sellers and buyers may be adversely affected and we may not be able to grow our business as we anticipate. In addition, our sellers rely on continued and unimpeded access to postal services and shipping carriers to deliver their goods reliably and timely to buyers. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and other factors, our sellers have experienced increased delays in delivery of their goods. If these shipping delays continue or worsen, or if shipping rates increase significantly, our sellers may have increased costs, and/or our buyers may have a poor purchasing experience and may lose trust in our marketplaces, which could negatively impact our business, financial performance, and growth. Our payments systems have both operational and compliance risks, including in-house execution risk, dependency on third-party providers, and a complex landscape of evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards. The payment offerings provided on each of our marketplaces differ and, as such, are subject to varying degrees and types of risk. In particular, each payment offering has a different level of reliance on third parties to perform certain aspects of its services. We plan to invest ongoing internal resources into our payments tools and infrastructure to maintain existing availability, expand into additional markets, and offer new payment methods and tools to our buyers and sellers. If we fail to invest adequate resources into our payments platforms, or if our investment efforts are unsuccessful or unreliable, our payments services may not function properly, keep pace with competitive offerings, or comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements, any of which could negatively impact their usage and our marketplaces, as well as our trusted brands, which, in turn, could adversely affect our GMS and results of operations. We rely upon third-party service providers to perform key components of our payments platforms, including payments processing and payments disbursing, compliance, currency exchange, identity verification, sanctions screening, tax collection, and fraud analysis. If these service providers do not perform adequately, or if our relationships with these service providers were to change or terminate, it could negatively affect our sellers ability to receive orders or payments, our buyers ability to complete purchases, and our ability to operate our payments program, including maintaining certain compliance measures, including fraud prevention and detection tools. This could decrease revenue, increase costs, lead to potential legal liability, and negatively impact our brands and business. If we (or a third-party payment processor) suffer a security breach affecting payment card information, we could be subjected to fines, penalties, and assessments arising out of the major card brands rules and 46 Table of Contents regulations, contractual indemnification obligations or other obligations contained in merchant agreements and similar contracts, and we may lose our ability to accept payment cards as payment for our services and our sellers goods and services. In addition, we and our third-party service providers may experience service outages from time to time that negatively impact payments on our platforms. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, such payments-related service outages and, if we are unable to promptly remedy or provide an alternative payment solution, our business could be harmed. In addition, if our third-party providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses, or those of our sellers, could increase, and it could negatively impact our sellers businesses or our business. Further, our ability to expand our payments services into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support these services. As we expand the availability of our payments services to additional markets or offer new payment methods to our sellers and buyers in the future, we, along with our sellers, may become subject to additional and evolving regulations, compliance requirements, and may be exposed to heightened fraud risk, which could lead to an increase in our operating expenses. Various laws and regulations govern payments, and these laws are complex, evolving, and subject to change and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. Moreover, even in regions where such laws have been harmonized, regulatory interpretations of such laws may differ. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort determining whether various licensing and registration laws relating to payments apply to us as our business strategy and operations evolve. In addition, should one of our subsidiaries become regulated as a financial services entity in any jurisdiction, we would be subject to additional regulation. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, result in liabilities, cause us significant reputational damage, or force us to stop offering our payments services in certain markets. Additionally, changes in payment regulation may occur that could render our payments systems non-compliant and/or less profitable. Further, through our agreements with our third-party payments service providers, we are and could be subject to evolving rules and certification requirements (including, for example, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), or other contractual requirements that may materially negatively impact our payments business. Failure to comply with these rules and requirements could impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations with our third-party payment processors and could result in potential fines or negatively impact our relationship with our third-party payments processors. We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements, including as a result of a change in our designation by major payment card providers, could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply and could require a change in our business operations. In addition, similar to a potential increase in costs from third-party providers described above, any increased costs associated with compliance with payment card association rules or payment card provider rules could lead to increased fees for us or our sellers, which may negatively impact payments on our platforms, usage of our payments services, and our marketplaces. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns, inflation, natural disasters, public health crises such as the COVID-19 pandemic, political crises, geopolitical changes, or other macroeconomic conditions, which have in the past and may in the future negatively impact our business and financial performance. Macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. If general economic conditions deteriorate in the United States or other markets where we operate, consumer discretionary spending may decline and demand for the goods and services available on our platforms may be reduced. This would cause our Marketplace and Services revenue to decline and adversely impact our business. For example, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant uncertainty and volatility in the global economy, and we have seen significant and rapid shifts in consumer purchasing behavior as this pandemic has evolved, particularly as it relates to items sought on Etsy. Other factors that could affect consumers willingness to make discretionary purchases include, among others: levels of employment, interest and core inflation rates, tax rates, housing costs, the availability of consumer credit, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, and any future stimulus checks. It is difficult to predict how our business might be impacted by changing consumer spending patterns. If recent trends supporting self-employment, and the desire for supplemental income were to reverse, the number of sellers offering their goods in our marketplaces and the number of goods listed in our marketplaces could decline. In addition, currency exchange rates may directly and indirectly impact our business. If the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, particularly if there is short term volatility, our foreign currency denominated GMS and revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars, could fluctuate significantly. Currency exchange rates may also dampen demand for cross-border purchases, which could impact GMS and revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 74% of our GMS was denominated in U.S. dollars. Any events causing significant disruption or distraction to the public or to our workforce, such as natural disasters and other adverse weather and climate conditions, public health crises, supply chain disruptions, political instability or crises, terrorist attacks, war, social unrest, or other unexpected events, could disrupt our operations, internet, or mobile networks, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers. These events, if they occur, may impact buyer demand for discretionary goods, impact sellers ability to run their businesses on our marketplaces and ship their goods, and impact our ability to execute on our strategy, any of which could negatively impact our business and financial performance. 47 Table of Contents Further expansion outside of the United States will subject us to risks associated with operations abroad. Doing business outside of the United States subjects us to increased risks and burdens such as: complying with different (and sometimes conflicting) laws and regulatory standards (particularly including those related to the use and disclosure of personal information, online payments and money transmission, intellectual property, product liability, consumer protection, online platform liability, e-commerce marketplace regulation, labor and employment laws, business practices, including those related to the environment, and taxation of income, goods, and services) sometimes with attempts to apply these laws and regulatory standards extra-territorially; defending our marketplaces against international litigation, including in jurisdictions that may not offer judicial norms or protections similar to those found in the United States; conforming to local business or cultural norms; barriers to international trade, such as tariffs, customs, or other taxes, or, when applicable, cross-border limits placed on U.S. technology companies; uncertainties on the continuing impact of pandemic-related quarantines, closures, delayed or shut down delivery services, supply chain delays, and movement restrictions on operations, and geopolitical events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorism, and acts of war; varying levels of internet, e-commerce, and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; potentially heightened risk of fraudulent or other illegal transactions; limitations on the repatriation of funds; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and export control laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; our ability to enforce contracts, our terms of use and policies, and intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; fluctuations of foreign exchange rates; and uncertainties and instability in U.K. and E.U. markets caused by ongoing negotiations of cross-border service agreements triggered by Brexit. Our sellers face similar risks in conducting their businesses across borders. Even if we are successful in managing the risks of conducting our business across borders, if our sellers are not, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to recruit and retain a diverse group of employees and retain key employees is important to our success. Significant attrition or turnover could impact our ability to grow our business. Our ability to attract, retain, and motivate a diverse group of employees, including our management team, is important to our success. We strive to attract, retain, and motivate our employees, from our office administrators to our engineers, to our management team, who share our dedication to our communities and our mission to Keep Commerce Human. We cannot guarantee we will continue to attract and retain the number or caliber of employees we need to maintain our competitive position, particularly in the uncertainty of the current macroeconomic environment. We may not meet our impact goal of building diverse and inclusive workforces that are broadly representative of their communities. Some of the challenges we face in attracting and retaining employees include: skepticism regarding our ability to accelerate GMS growth in the future; continuing ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits; evolving expectations regarding the ability to work remotely; enhancing engagement levels among existing employees and supporting their work-life balance; attracting high quality talent in a timely fashion; retaining qualified employees who support our mission and guiding principles, including employees of recently acquired companies such as Depop and Elo7, and continuing to do so in a remote or hybrid work environment; 48 Table of Contents continuing to find promotion opportunities to retain key employees for leadership positions; hiring employees in multiple locations globally, and building a diverse equitable and inclusive workforce; and responding to competitive pressures and changing business conditions in ways that do not divert us from our guiding principles. Filling key strategic roles, including engineering and product management, particularly in New York City, San Francisco, Dublin, and Chicago, is challenging and may be challenging in London, So Paulo, and Mexico City as well, as competition for engineering talent continues to increase rapidly. Qualified individuals are limited and in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract, develop, retain and motivate them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, people with suitable technical skills may choose not to join us or to continue to work for us. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, particularly in this volatile macroeconomic environment, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Most of our employees are currently working on a fully remote or very nearly fully remote basis, even though we have started to reopen our offices. As we continue reopening our offices, we are planning to migrate towards a hybrid work model in which some of our employees will remain fully remote and others will return to our offices with a flexible schedule. If our needs are not aligned with our employees preferences, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. If we continue to operate with most of our employees located outside of our offices, such arrangements may negatively impact our company culture. In general, our employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Technology Officer, or unsuccessful succession planning, could adversely affect our business. Further, if members of our management and other key personnel in critical functions across our organization are unable to perform their duties, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy and/or our operations may be negatively impacted. Other companies, including our competitors, may be successful in recruiting and hiring our employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or on competitive terms. If we experience increased voluntary attrition in the future, and/or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees in a timely fashion or on reasonable terms, particularly in critical areas of operations such as engineering, we may not achieve our strategic goals and our business and operations could be harmed. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and patent laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. We also rely on trade secret protection for parts of our technology and intellectual property. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. We generally do not elect to register our copyrights, relying instead on the laws protecting unregistered intellectual property, which may not be sufficient. We rely on both registered and unregistered trademarks, which may not always be comprehensive in scope. In addition, our copyrights and trademarks, whether or not registered, and patents may be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged, and may be of limited territorial reach. While we have obtained or applied for patent protection with respect to some of our intellectual property, patent filings may not be adequate alone to protect our intellectual property, and may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. From time to time we acquire intellectual property from third parties, but these acquired assets, like our internally developed intellectual property, may be held invalid, be unenforceable, or may otherwise not be effective in protecting our platforms. In addition, we may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and authorized uses may not have the intended effect. Even when we do detect violations, we have in the past and may in the future need to engage in litigation, use of takedowns and similar procedures, or licensing to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our managements attention. In addition, our efforts may be met with defenses and counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. The legal framework surrounding protection of intellectual property changes frequently throughout the world, particularly as to technologies used in e-commerce, and these changes may impact our ability to protect our intellectual property and defend against third party claims. If we are unable to cost-effectively protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be harmed. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to a variety of taxes and tax collection obligations in the United States and in numerous other foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense, including indirect taxes, based on current tax payments and our estimates of future tax payments, which may include reserves for estimates of probable or likely settlements of tax audits. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including tax collection obligations, due to changes in tax law, such as digital services taxes, or online sales taxes. In 2021, the administration of President Joseph R. Biden, as well as several members 49 Table of Contents of Congress, through the fiscal budget reconciliation process, released proposed legislation that includes several significant modifications to key income tax provisions, as well as introduced new provisions, to the U.S. internal revenue code. The proposed legislation includes, among other things, an increase to U.S. tax on certain foreign earnings, an increase to the limitation of deductible interest expense, and an increase to the disallowance of a deduction for certain named executive officers compensation. Although it is uncertain if some or all of the identified provisions will be enacted, a change in U.S. tax law would likely materially and adversely impact our income tax liability, deferred tax asset or liability balances, provision for income taxes, and effective tax rate. We may also be subject to increased requirements for marketplaces to report, collect, remit, and hold liability for their customers direct and indirect tax obligations, or as a result of changes to regulations, administrative practices, outcomes of court cases, and changes to the global tax framework. Our effective tax rate and cash taxes paid in a given financial statement period may be adversely impacted by results of our business operations including changes in the mix of revenue among different jurisdictions, acquisitions, investments, entry into new geographies, the relative amount of foreign earnings, changes in foreign currency exchanges rates, changes in our stock price, intercompany transactions, changes to accounting rules, expectation of future profits, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our assessment of their realizability, and changes to our ownership or capital structure. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of our business, there are numerous transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax positions and related provisions reflected in the financial statements are fully supportable, we recognize that these tax positions and related provisions may be challenged by various tax authorities. These tax positions and related provisions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted as additional facts and information become available, including progress on tax audits, changes in interpretation of tax laws, developments in case law, and closing of statute of limitations. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, our effective tax rate can be adversely affected. The provision for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and can raise issues regarding its filing positions, timing and amount of income and deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. Any adjustments as a result of any examination, may result in additional taxes or penalties against us. If the ultimate result of these audits differs from original or adjusted estimates, they could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. At any one time, multiple tax years could be subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. As a result, we could be subject to higher than anticipated tax liabilities as well as ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as audits close and exposures are re-evaluated. The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. We do not currently have any obligations outstanding under our credit facility. While the indentures governing our outstanding convertible notes do not include material restrictions on our ability to pursue our business strategy, our credit facility requires us to comply with, and future debt instruments may require us to comply with, various covenants that limit our ability to take actions such as: disposing of assets; completing mergers or acquisitions; incurring additional indebtedness; encumbering our properties or assets; paying dividends, making other distributions or repurchasing our common stock; making specified investments; and engaging in transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. If we default under our credit facility and if the default is not cured or waived, the lenders could terminate their commitments to lend to us and cause any amounts outstanding to be payable immediately. Such a default could also result in cross defaults under other debt instruments. Moreover, any such default would limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. Our insurance may not cover or mitigate all the risks facing our business. While we have insurance coverage for most aspects of our business risk, this insurance coverage may be incomplete or inadequate, or in some cases may not be available. Our business has evolving risks that may be unpredictable. For certain risks we face, we may be required to, or may elect to, self-insure or rely on insurance held by third parties, legal defenses and immunities, indemnification agreements or limits on liability, which may be insufficient. For example, we may not have adequate insurance coverage related to the actions of sellers on our platforms. In evolving areas such as platform products liability, recent court decisions such as McMillan v. Amazon in Texas, and Loomis v. Amazon and Bolger v. Amazon in California, suggest that different jurisdictions may take differing positions on the scope of e-commerce platform liability for seller products. In some circumstances, a platform might be held liable for violations of applicable legal regimes by sellers and their products, such as intellectual property laws, privacy and security laws, product regulation, or consumer protection laws. Court decisions and regulatory changes in these areas may shift quickly, both in the United States and worldwide, and our insurance may be inadequate or unavailable to protect us from existing or newly developing legal risks. 50 Table of Contents Finally, while some sellers on our platforms may be insured for some or all of these risks, many small businesses do not carry any or sufficient insurance, and, even if a seller is insured, the insurance may not cover the relevant loss. These factors may lead to increased costs for insurance, our increased liability, increased liability or requirements on sellers on our platforms, changes to our marketplaces or business model, or other damage to our brands and reputation. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Operating e-commerce marketplaces is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. To be successful, we need to attract and retain sellers and buyers. As a result, we face competition from a wide range of online and offline competitors. We compete for sellers with marketplaces, retailers, social media commerce, and companies that sell software and services to small businesses. For example, in addition to listing her goods for sale on the Etsy marketplace, a seller can list her goods with online retailers, such as Amazon, eBay, Google, or Alibaba, or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues or marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook, Instagram, and TikTok. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We similarly compete for sellers on our other marketplaces, Depop, Reverb, and Elo7, which sellers may list their goods with online retailers such as Vinted, ThredUp, or Poshmark, in the case of Depop, Sweetwater, in the case of Reverb, or MercadoLibre, in the case of Elo7, among others, or sell through other venues, marketplaces, retailers, or commerce channels. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling a seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platforms, or enabling her to sell through multiple channels, such as BigCommerce, Wix, and Shopify. We compete to attract, engage, and retain sellers based on many factors, including: the value and awareness of our brands; the effectiveness of our product and marketing investments; the effectiveness of our scaled member support and trust and safety practices and policies; the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence; our tools, education, and services, which support a seller in running her business; the number and engagement of buyers; our policies and fees; the ability of a seller to scale her business; the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the strength of our communities; and our mission. In addition, we compete with retailers for the attention of buyers. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, including large e-commerce marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay, or Alibaba, national retail chains, such as West Elm, Walmart, or Target, local consignment and vintage stores, social commerce channels like Instagram or Facebook, event-driven platforms and vertical experiences like Zola and Wayfair, resale commerce and streaming video commerce sites and apps, and other venues or marketplaces. Many of these competitors offer low-cost or free shipping, fast shipping times, favorable return policies, and other features that may be difficult or impossible for our sellers to match. As pandemic-related restrictions and habits evolve, competition may intensify as buyers return to traditional brick and mortar retail stores. We compete to attract, engage, and retain buyers based on many factors, including: the breadth and quality of items that sellers list in our marketplaces; the ease of finding items; the value and awareness of our brands; 51 Table of Contents the effectiveness of our marketing; the person-to-person commerce experience; customer service; our reputation for trustworthiness; the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the availability of timely, fair, and free shipping offered by sellers to buyers; ease of payment; localization and experiences targeted based on regional preferences, and the availability and reliability of our platforms. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, better name recognition, or more customers than we do. They may invest more to develop and promote their services than we do, and they may offer lower fees to sellers than we do. Large, widely adopted platforms may benefit from significant user bases, access to user or industry-wide data, the ability to unilaterally set policies and standards, and control over complementary services such as fulfillment, advertising or on-platform apps or e-commerce transactions. To the extent Etsy and our sellers may rely on these competitors services, such services may be integrated into site functionality, and these competitors may have access to substantial data about Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. As a result, they may have the ability to reduce our ability to service our users, reduce our ability to obtain analytics or information to optimize advertising or intentionally seek to disintermediate Etsy. We believe that it is, and that it should continue to be, relatively easy for new businesses to create online commerce offerings or tools or services that enable entrepreneurship. However, as the technology space is increasingly subject to regulation, there is a risk that legislation, and regulatory or competition inquiries, even if focused on large, widely adopted platforms, may inadvertently impede smaller platforms and small businesses, including us and our sellers. For example, legislation and inquiries may result in obligations with which only large platforms are situated to comply. If legislation or regulatory inquiries, even if focused on other entities, requires us to expend significant resources in response or results in the imposition of new obligations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Local companies or more established companies based in markets where we operate outside of the United States may also have a better understanding of local customs, providing them a competitive advantage. For example, in certain markets outside the United States, we compete with smaller, but similar, local online marketplaces with a focus on unique goods that are attempting to attract sellers and buyers in those markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to expend significant resources in response to our competitors actions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Depops growth and profitability depends on its ability to attract new buyers and sellers, expand internationally and to compete effectively in new and existing markets. Depop provides an online platform for resale of used and vintage apparel and accessories. To grow GMS and profitability, Depop must grow its active seller and buyer communities in the United States and the United Kingdom, expand into new geographies, and compete effectively in the increasingly competitive resale sector. The markets for resale and secondhand items are highly competitive. In addition, Depop competes with vendors of new and secondhand items, including branded goods stores, local, national, and global department stores, traditional brick-and-mortar consignment and thrift stores, specialty retailers, direct-to-consumer retailers, discount chains, independent retail stores, the online offerings of traditional retail competitors, and resale sellers specializing in niche or narrow categories, as well as online marketplaces that may offer the same or similar goods and services that Depop offers. Competitors offering secondhand apparel include other online marketplaces, such as eBay, Vinted, ThredUp, Poshmark, and The RealReal. Other competitors include: large online and traditional retailers such as Amazon, H&M, Kohls, and Walmart; off-price retailers, such as Burlington Stores, Ross Stores, and The TJX Companies and low-cost fast-fashion retailers such as Shein. We believe Depops ability to compete depends on many factors, many of which are beyond its control, including: attracting and retaining active buyers and sellers and increasing the volume of secondhand items they buy and sell; sellers offering a broad selection of desirable and high-quality secondhand items on Depops marketplace; continuing appeal of secondhand fashion to Gen Z and other demographics; growing favorable brand recognition in new and existing markets; 52 Table of Contents the speed and cost at which Depop sellers ship purchased items to buyers; and the ease with which Depop buyers and sellers can purchase, supply, and return secondhand items. As resale markets continue to evolve and expand, we anticipate competition in this sector to increase. Moreover, consumer preferences may change, or growth in consumer demand for used items may decelerate or even decrease, and buyers may not purchase through Depops marketplace as frequently or spend as much with Depop sellers as they have historically. Relatedly, an inability to attract and retain buyers could harm our ability to attract and retain sellers, who may decide to resell their items through alternative platforms or marketplaces. If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes and enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new service and product introductions, and changing customer demands and preferences, and we are not able to predict the effect of these changes on our business. The technologies that we currently use to support our platforms may become inadequate or obsolete, and the cost of incorporating new technologies into our products and services may be substantial. Our sellers and buyers, however, may not be satisfied with our enhancements or new offerings or may perceive that these offerings do not respond to their needs or create value for them. Additionally, as we invest in and experiment with new offerings or changes to our platforms, our sellers and buyers may find these changes to be disruptive and may perceive them negatively. In addition, developing new services and features is complex, and the timetable for public launch is difficult to predict and may vary from our historical experience. As a result, the introduction of new offerings may occur after anticipated release dates, or they may be introduced as pilot programs, which may not be continued for various reasons. In addition, new offerings may not be successful due to defects or errors, negative publicity, or our failure to market them effectively. New offerings may not drive GMS or revenue growth, may require substantial investment and planning, and may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. If we do not continue to cost-effectively develop new offerings that satisfy sellers and buyers, then our competitive position and growth prospects may be harmed. In addition, new offerings may not drive the GMS or revenue that we anticipate, may have lower margins than we anticipate or than existing offerings, and our revenue from the new offerings may not be enough to offset the cost of developing and maintaining them, which could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. If the widely adopted mobile, social, search, and/or advertising solutions that we, our sellers, and our buyers rely on as part of our key offering are no longer available or effective, or if access to these major platforms is limited, the use of our marketplaces could decline. We are dependent on widely-adopted third party platforms to reach our customers, such as popular mobile, social, search, and advertising offerings. If we are not able to deliver a rewarding experience on these platforms, or if our or our sellers access to these platforms is limited, or if these large platforms implement features that compete with us or our sellers, then our products and marketing efforts may suffer, and our sellers ability to manage and scale their business may be harmed. In addition, we may not be able to deliver a rewarding experience, we may have limited access to, or we may be unable to invest significant time and resources towards, integration with and offering our services through new or updated devices, operating system versions, social networks, or search platforms (including Internet of Things (IoT) based or voice based platforms). If our solutions and integrations are ineffective or unavailable, such as when impacted or limited by a change imposed by a third party platform, then our products and marketing efforts may suffer, and our sellers ability to manage and scale their business may be harmed. As a consequence, our sellers may choose to sell elsewhere, and our business may suffer. Conversion rates differ between web, mobile web, and mobile app traffic. If visits to our platforms from sources with lower conversion rates (such as mobile web for the Etsy.com marketplace) were to increase as a percentage of overall visits, it could adversely impact our conversion rate and reduce GMS on our platforms which could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. The success of our marketplaces could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as actions taken by providers of mobile and desktop operating systems, social networks, or search and advertising platforms, including: policy changes that interfere with, add tolls to, or otherwise limit our ability to provide users with a full experience of our platforms, such as for our mobile apps or social network presence; unfavorable treatment received by our platforms, especially as compared to competing platforms, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs to distribute or use our platforms via mobile apps, social networks, or established search and advertising systems; 53 Table of Contents changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps, our understanding of the usage or our services, or that give preferential treatment to competitive products; changes to social networks that degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of us or our sellers shops and products; or implementation and interpretation of regulatory or industry standards by these widely adopted platforms that, as a side effect, degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of us or our sellers shops and products. If sellers and buyers encounter difficulty accessing or using our marketplaces through these widely adopted access providers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be adversely affected. Expanding our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and the growth of our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. We are focused on growing our business both inside and outside of the United States. Although we have a significant number of sellers and buyers outside of the United States, we are a U.S.-based company with less experience developing local markets internationally and may not execute our strategy successfully. Operating outside of the United States also requires significant management attention, including managing operations and people over diverse geographic areas with varying cultural norms and customs, and adapting our platforms and business operations to local markets. Our ability to grow our international operations may also be adversely affected by any circumstances that reduce or hinder cross-border trade. For example, the shipping of goods cross-border is typically more expensive and slower than domestic shipping and often involves complex customs and duty inspections and the dependency of national postal carrier systems. If jurisdictions become increasingly fragmented, with additional regulation of small sellers and platforms, tariffs, certifications, representative requirements, and customs requirements that increase the cost or complexity of cross-border trade, whether on the sellers sourcing of materials or between the seller and buyer, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, our international growth strategy may be adversely affected by the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic outside the United States results in further quarantines, closures, delayed or terminated delivery services, and movement restriction. Our success outside the United States also depends upon our ability to attract sellers and buyers from the same countries in order to enable the growth of local markets. An inability to develop our communities globally or to otherwise grow our business outside of the United States in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our GMS, revenue, and operating results. Competition is also likely to intensify outside of the United States, both where we operate now and where we plan to expand. Local companies based outside the United States may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, their local markets, along with regulations that may favor local companies. Some of our competitors may also be able to develop and grow internationally more quickly than we will. Despite our execution efforts, the goods that sellers list on our Etsy and Reverb marketplaces may not appeal to non-U.S. consumers in the same way as they do to consumers in the United States. In addition, non-U.S. buyers are not as familiar with the Etsy and Reverb brands as buyers in the United States and may not perceive us as relevant or trustworthy. Also, visits to our Etsy and Reverb marketplaces from buyers outside the United States may not convert into sales as often as visits from within the United States, including due to the impact of a strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the fact that most of the goods listed on these platforms are denominated in U.S. dollars. Similarly, non-U.K. consumers may be less familiar with Depop, or find the listed items less appealing, than consumers in the United Kingdom, and non-Brazilian consumers may be less familiar with Elo7, or find the listed items less appealing, than consumers in Brazil. Continued international expansion may also require significant financial investment. For example, Etsy has made investments to address growth opportunities in India, a dynamic market where we have limited operating experience, and acquired Elo7 which extends Etsys reach in Latin America. To facilitate continued international expansion, we plan to continue investing in seller and buyer acquisition marketing, enhancing our machine translation and machine learning to help sellers and buyers connect even if they do not speak the same language, forming relationships with third-party service providers, supporting operations in multiple countries, and potentially acquiring additional companies based outside the United States and integrating those companies with our operations. Our investment outside of the United States may be more costly than we expect or unsuccessful. Our recent acquisitions of Depop and Elo7 may create strains on our management, technology, and operational resources and may prove to be costlier and take longer to integrate than we anticipate, which may ultimately reduce or eliminate the benefits to Etsy of the acquisitions. We expect that our acquisitions of Depop and Elo7 will continue to require significant attention and resources from our management team and workforce, including our technology, operations, accounting, and human resource units. Devoting resources to the integration of Depop and Elo7 means that these resources will be redeployed to varying degrees from their normal day-to-day activities supporting existing Etsy functions. This could impair our effectiveness and efficiency in serving existing Etsy sellers and buyers and may have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For example, 54 Table of Contents to the extent our products and marketing teams are involved in supporting Depop and Elo7, they may be unable to devote sufficient time to product and marketing efforts relating to the Etsy and Reverb marketplaces which may materially impact our business, growth, or results of operations. We incurred substantial transaction fees and costs in connection with our acquisitions of Depop and Elo7 and may experience difficulty in realizing the expected benefits of the acquisitions. We incurred significant non-recurring expenses in connection with our acquisition of Depop and, to a lesser extent, our acquisition of Elo7, including legal, accounting, filing, financial advisory, and integration planning and other expenses. Additionally, while we intend to operate Depop and Elo7 as stand-alone marketplaces, we may continue to incur significant expenses as we invest to grow their respective businesses and implement public company compliance policies and procedures (including effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure