managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, determining the nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and stand-alone selling price for use in allocating the subscription price; stock-based compensation, income taxes, including the assessment of valuation allowances and the accounting for uncertain tax positions; website development costs and internal-use software, purchase price allocations for business combinations, valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, leases, restructuring and other exit costs (income), and fair value of financial instruments have the greatest potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Our revenue is diversified; generated from a mix of marketplace activities and other optional services to help Etsy sellers to generate more sales and scale their businesses. We recognize revenue as we transfer control of promised goods or services to Etsy sellers, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. We evaluate whether it is appropriate to recognize revenue on a gross or net basis based upon our evaluation of whether we obtain control of the specified goods or services by considering if we are primarily responsible for fulfillment of the promise, have inventory risk, and have latitude in establishing pricing and selecting suppliers, among other factors. Based on our evaluation of these factors, revenue is recorded either gross or net of costs associated with the transaction. With the exception of Etsy Shipping Labels, our revenues are recognized on a gross basis. Sales and usage-based taxes are excluded from revenues. Marketplace revenue: As members of the Etsy marketplace, Etsy sellers receive the benefit of marketplace activities, including listing items for sale, completing sales transactions, and payments processing, which represents a single stand-ready performance obligation. Etsy sellers pay a fixed listing fee of $0.20 for each item listed on Etsy.com for a period of four months or, if earlier, until a sale occurs. Variable fees include the 5% transaction fee that an Etsy seller pays for each completed transaction, inclusive of shipping fees charged and Etsy Payments fees for processing payments, including foreign currency payments. On July 16, 2018 , we increased our seller transaction fee from 3.5% to 5% , and now apply it to the cost of shipping in addition to the cost of the item. Etsy Payments processing fees vary between 3 % to 4.5% of an items total sale price, including shipping, plus a flat fee per order, depending on the country in which a sellers bank account is located. When a foreign currency payment is processed, an additional 2.5 % to 5% transaction fee is applied. The listing fee is recognized ratably over a four -month listing period, unless the item is sold or the seller re-lists it, at which time any remaining listing fee is recognized. The transaction fee and Etsy Payments fees are recognized when the corresponding transaction is consummated. Listing fees are nonrefundable while transaction fees and Etsy Payments fees are recorded net of refunds. 83 Table of Contents Services revenue: Services revenue is derived from optional services we offer to Etsy sellers, which include Promoted Listings, Etsy Shipping Labels, Pattern, and Etsy Plus. Each service below represents an individual obligation that we must perform when an Etsy seller chooses to use the service. Revenue from Promoted Listings, our on-site advertising service, consists of cost-per-click fees an Etsy seller pays us for prominent placement of the sellers listings in search results in our marketplace. Promoted Listings fees are based on an auction system, which utilizes the budget that each Etsy seller sets when using Promoted Listings to determine the cost-per-click fee. Promoted Listing fees are nonrefundable and are charged to a sellers Etsy bill when the Promoted Listing is clicked; at which time revenue is recognized. Revenue from Etsy Shipping Labels consists of fees an Etsy seller pays us when she purchases shipping labels through our platform, net of the cost we incur in purchasing those shipping labels. We provide our sellers access to purchase shipping labels from the United States Postal Service, FedEx, Canada Post, Royal Mail and DAI Post at discounted pricing due to the volume of purchases through its platform. We recognize Etsy Shipping Label revenue when an Etsy seller purchases a shipping label. We recognize Etsy Shipping Label revenue on a net basis as we are an agent in this arrangement and do not take control of shipping labels prior to transferring the labels to the Etsy Seller. Etsy Shipping Label revenue is recorded net of refunds. Revenue from Pattern consists of monthly subscription fees an Etsy seller pays to use our custom website services. We recognize revenue from Pattern ratably over the term of the subscription. The Pattern subscription fee is $15 per month and is nonrefundable. Revenue from Etsy Plus consists of monthly subscription fees an Etsy seller pays for enhanced tools and credits for use on our platform. The Etsy Plus subscription fee is $10 per month and is nonrefundable. Each feature represents its own distinct performance obligation. We allocate subscription revenue based on the relative actual or estimated stand-alone selling price of the features included in the Etsy Plus offering. Enhanced tools include advanced shop customization options, targeted restock notifications, discounts on branded packaging and promotional materials, and free or discounted custom web addresses, all of which are recognized ratably over the 30 -day subscription period. Additionally, the subscription includes $5 of Promoted Listing credits and 15 free listing credits per month. The allocated value of Promoted Listing credits is recognized when the Promoted Listing is clicked, or when the 30-day subscription period expires. The allocated value of listing credits is deferred until the option is used, and once used, allocated over the four-month listing period. Any unused listing credits are recognized when the 30-day subscription period expires. Other revenue: Other revenue typically includes revenue generated from commercial partnerships, which are recognized as the customer in each contract consumes the benefit of the service we provide in each arrangement. Stock-Based Compensation We account for our stock-based compensation awards in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 718 CompensationStock Compensation (ASC 718). Stock options and RSUs are awarded to employees and members of our Board of Directors and are measured at fair value at each grant date. For both options and RSUs, vesting is typically over a four -year period and is contingent upon continued employment on each vesting date. In general, options granted to newly-hired employees prior to July 2018 vest 25% after the first year of service and ratably each month over the remaining 36 -month period. In general, RSUs granted to newly-hired employees prior to July 2018 vest 25% after the first year following the vesting commencement date, which is the first day of the fiscal quarter closest to the date of grant, and then vest ratably each quarter over the remaining 12-quarter period. In general, for current employees who received an additional grant prior to March 2018, options vest ratably each month over a 48 -month period. In general, for current employees who received an additional grant prior to March 2018, RSUs vest ratably each quarter over a 16-quarter period following the vesting commencement date, which is the first day of the fiscal quarter closest to the date of grant. Beginning in July 2018, in general , for newly-hired employees, both options and RSUs vest 25% after the first year of service and ratably each six -month period over a four -year period following the vesting commencement date, which is the first day of the month closest to the date of grant. Beginning in March 2018, in general, for current employees who receive an additional grant, both options and RSUs vest ratably each six -month period over a four -year period following the vesting commencement date . Stock-based compensation cost is measured on the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award using a Black-Scholes pricing model and recognized as an expense over the employees or directors requisite service period on a straight-line basis. The fair value of RSUs is determined based on the closing price of our common stock on Nasdaq on the grant date. In the first quarter of 2017, we made an accounting policy election to recognize forfeitures as they occur upon adoption of guidance in ASU 2016-09 CompensationStock Compensation: Scope of Modification Accounting . In reporting periods prior to 2017, we 84 Table of Contents estimated forfeitures at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods as necessary if actual forfeitures differed from estimates. We expect to continue to grant stock options and RSUs in the future, and, to the extent that we do, our stock-based compensation expense recognized in future periods will likely increase. Key Assumptions Our Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, the expected term of the option, and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Fair Value of Our Common Stock: Prior to our initial public offering in April 2015, our Board of Directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock at each meeting at which awards were approved. The factors included: contemporaneous third-party valuations of our common stock; the prices, rights, preferences, and privileges of our preferred stock relative to those of our common stock; the prices of preferred stock sold by us to third-party investors in arms-length transactions; the prices of common stock sold to third-party investors by us and in secondary transactions or repurchased by us in arms-length transactions; the lack of marketability of our common stock; our operating and financial results; current business conditions and projections; and the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an initial public offering or sale of our company, given then prevailing market conditions. Since our initial public offering, we have used the market closing price for our common stock as reported on the Nasdaq to determine the fair value of our common stock. Expected Volatility: As we do not have a sufficient trading history for our common stock, the expected stock price volatility for our common stock is estimated by taking the average historical price volatility for Etsy and certain industry peers based on daily price observations over a period equivalent to the expected term of the stock option grants. Industry peers, which we have selected, consist of several public companies in the industry similar in size, stage of life cycle, and financial leverage. We intend to continue to consistently apply this process using the same or similar public companies until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own common stock share price becomes available, or unless circumstances change such that the identified companies are no longer similar to us, in which case more suitable companies whose share prices are publicly available would be used in the calculation. Risk-free Interest Rate: The risk-free interest rate is based on the yields of U.S. Treasury securities with maturities similar to the expected term of the options for each option group. Expected Term: The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. We base our expected term for awards issued to employees or members of our Board of Directors on the simplified method, which represents the average period from vesting to the expiration of the stock option. Expected Dividend Yield: We have never declared or paid any cash dividends to common stockholders and do not presently plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we use an expected dividend yield of zero. In determining the fair value of stock options granted, the following weighted-average assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model for awards granted in the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2016 Expected volatility 38.6% - 47.8% 41.7% - 44.2% 38.6% - 44.6% Risk-free interest rate 2.6% - 2.9% 1.9% - 2.2% 1.1% - 2.1% Expected term (in years) 5.5 - 6.3 5.5 - 6.3 5.5 - 6.3 Dividend rate % % % Income Taxes We account for the income tax (provision) benefit based on income (loss) before income taxes using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to settle. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized as income or expense in the period that includes the enactment date. We assess the need for a valuation allowance on a quarterly basis to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts we expect to be realized. 85 Table of Contents On December 22, 2017 the TCJA was signed into law. The TCJA requires us to make an accounting policy election of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income ("GILTI") as a current period expense when incurred (the period cost method) or (2) factoring such amounts into our measurement of our deferred taxes (the deferred method). We recorded tax expense related to GILTI in our effective tax rate for 2018, and have elected to treat taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI using the period cost method. We account for uncertainty in income taxes using a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, associated with tax matters as part of the income tax provision and include accrued interest and penalties with the related tax liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Website Development and Internal-use Software Costs Costs incurred to develop our website and software for internal-use are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, generally three to five years. In accordance with authoritative accounting guidance, we begin to capitalize our costs to develop software when preliminary development efforts are successfully completed, management has authorized and committed project funding, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended. We also capitalize costs related to upgrades and enhancements when it is probable the expenditures will result in additional functionality or will extend the useful life of existing functionality. Costs related to the design or maintenance of website development and internal-use software are expensed as incurred. We periodically review these capitalized website development and internal-use software costs to determine whether the projects will be completed, placed in service, removed from service, or replaced by other internally-developed or third-party software. If an asset is not expected to provide any future use, the asset is retired and any unamortized cost is expensed. If an asset will continue to be used, but the net book value is not expected to be fully recoverable, the asset is impaired to its fair value. When events or changes in circumstances require, we assess the likelihood of recovering the cost of website development and internal-use software costs based on its expectations of future profitability, undiscounted cash flows, and our plans with respect to operations to determine if the asset is impaired and subject to write-off. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on the excess of the carrying value of the asset over the fair value. Asset Acquisitions We have completed asset acquisitions and may complete additional asset acquisitions in the future. In an asset acquisition, we initially determine whether we acquired a single or group of assets. Acquired assets are recognized based on the purchase price, which is presumed to equal the fair value of the net assets acquired and amortized in the period over which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of that entity. When circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, we review our identifiable amortizable intangible assets for impairment. We accrue for contingent consideration when payout becomes probable and is reasonably estimable. Business Combinations, Intangible Assets and Goodwill We have completed a number of acquisitions of other businesses in the past and may acquire additional businesses or technologies in the future. In an acquisition, we first review if substantially all of the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or group of similar identifiable assets, in which case the set is not considered a business and is accounted for as an asset acquisition. The results of businesses acquired in a business combination are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition. We allocate the purchase price, which is the sum of the consideration provided and may consist of cash, equity, or a combination of the two, in a business combination to the identifiable assets and liabilities of the acquired business at their acquisition date fair values. The excess of the purchase price over the amount allocated to the identifiable assets and liabilities, if any, is recorded as goodwill. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management to use significant judgment and estimates, including the selection of valuation methodologies, estimates of future revenue and cash flows, discount rates, and selection of comparable companies. When we issue stock-based or cash awards to an acquired companys stockholders, we evaluate whether the awards are contingent consideration or compensation for post-combination services. The evaluation includes, among other things, whether 86 Table of Contents the vesting of the awards is contingent on the continued employment of the acquired companys stockholder beyond the acquisition date. If continued employment is required for vesting, the awards are treated as compensation for post-combination services and recognized as expense over the requisite service period. We initially recognize intangible assets at fair value, and we amortize them on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. When circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable, we review our identifiable amortizable intangible assets for impairment. Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate fair value of the consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of the assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to an annual impairment test. We have determined that we have a single reporting unit and we perform our annual goodwill impairment test during the fourth quarter or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the goodwill may be impaired. We have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then additional impairment testing is not required. However, if we conclude otherwise, we are then required to perform a quantitative assessment for impairment. The quantitative assessment involves comparing the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its respective book value, including goodwill. If we determine that the estimated fair value exceeds book value, goodwill is considered not to be impaired and no additional steps are necessary. If, however, we determine that the book value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, we would recognize an impairment loss in an amount equal to the excess, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Leases We lease office space and certain computer equipment in multiple locations under non-cancelable lease agreements. The leases are reviewed for classification as operating, capital, or build-to-suit leases. For operating leases, rent is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease period. For capital leases, we record the leased asset with a corresponding liability. Payments are recorded as reductions to the liability with an appropriate interest charge recorded based on the then-outstanding remaining liability. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 Leases, we will recognize additional operating liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets of the same amount based on the present value of the remaining minimum rental payments under current leasing standards for existing operating leases. We consider the nature of the renovations and our involvement during the construction period of newly-leased office space to determine if we are considered, for accounting purposes only, to be the owner of the construction project during the construction period. If we determine that we are the owner of the construction project, we are required to capitalize the fair value of the building as well as the construction costs incurred on our Consolidated Balance Sheet along with a corresponding financing liability (build-to-suit accounting). Upon occupancy for build-to-suit leases, we assess whether the circumstances qualify for sales recognition under the sale-leaseback accounting guidance. If the lease meets the sale-leaseback criteria, we will remove the asset and related financial obligation from the balance sheet and treat the building lease as an operating lease. If upon completion of construction, the project does not meet the sale-leaseback criteria, the leased property will be treated as a capital lease for financial reporting purposes. In May 2016, we took possession of our corporate headquarters in Brooklyn, New York upon substantial completion of the construction phase of the build-out. Upon completion of the project, we performed a sale-leaseback analysis pursuant to Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 840 Leases , to determine the appropriateness of removing the previously capitalized assets from the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We concluded that components of continuing involvement were evident as a result of this review, precluding the derecognition of the related assets from the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In conjunction with the initiation of the lease in May 2014, we also recorded a facility financing obligation equal to the fair market value of the assets received from the landlord. We do not report rent expense for the lease. Rather, rental payments under the lease are recognized as a reduction of the financing obligation and interest expense, and the associated asset capitalized throughout the construction project is depreciated over its estimated useful life. Upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 Leases, we will derecognize the facility financing obligation and any gains or losses associated with this change in accounting will be recognized through a cumulative-effect adjustment to accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2019. Additionally, a new right-of-use asset and lease liability will be recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the associated lease. See Note 1Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements for additional information on the impact of ASU 2016-02 Leases . 87 Table of Contents Restructuring and Other Exit Costs (Income) Under certain circumstances, such as the Actions described in Non-GAAP Financial Measures , we establish restructuring accruals for estimated employee severance and other exit costs. These accruals require the use of estimates, and though we believe the estimates and assumptions are reasonable, they may differ materially from actual costs. We include restructuring and other exit costs (income) in the applicable operating expense category of the impacted function in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 17Restructuring and Other Exit Costs (Income) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Fair Value of Financial Instruments In accounting for the issuance of the Notes discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity, we used estimates and assumptions to calculate the carrying amounts of the liability and equity components by measuring the fair value of similar securities. See Note 13Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For information regarding our recently issued accounting pronouncements and recently adopted accounting pronouncements, please see Note 1Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 88 Table of Contents