Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating and Financial Metrics" for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: "active buyer," "active seller," "GMS," "International GMS," "mobile visit," and "mobile GMS." NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include information related to our possible or assumed future results of operations and expenses, our outlook, our mission, business strategies and plans, business environment and future growth. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, intends, may, plans, potential, predicts, projects, seeks, should, will, would or similar expressions and the negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those risks include those described in Risk Factors, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Factors Affecting Our Performance" and elsewhere in this report. Given these uncertainties, you should read this report in its entirety and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10- K may not occur and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements represent our beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Table of Contents PART I. Item 1. Business. Overview Our mission is to reimagine commerce in ways that build a more fulfilling and lasting world. We are building a human and community-centric global and local marketplace. We are committed to using the power of business to create a better world through our platform. We operate a marketplace where people around the world connect, both online and offline, to make, sell and buy unique goods. As of December 31, 2015 , through our innovative, technology-based platform, we connected a community of 1.6 million active Etsy sellers and 24.0 million active Etsy buyers, in nearly every country in the world. Our community is the heart and soul of Etsy and is made up of creative entrepreneurs who sell on our platform, thoughtful consumers looking to buy unique goods in our marketplace and the Etsy employees who maintain our platform and nurture our ecosystem. Our community also includes the retailers who participate in our Wholesale offering and the manufacturers who form responsible partnerships with Etsy sellers. We are focused on bringing new participants into our community and expanding the impact of our platform and what we call the "Etsy Economy." The Etsy Economy values and honors the people who design and make goods, is transparent about the way they are made and connects the people who make, sell and buy them. It is an economy in which creative entrepreneurs find meaningful work and both global and local markets for their goods. Our business model is based on shared success: we make money when Etsy sellers make money. In 2015 , Etsy sellers generated Gross Merchandise Sales ("GMS") of $2.4 billion , of which approximately 43% came from purchases made on mobile devices. We are a global company and 29.8% of our 2015 GMS came from an Etsy seller or an Etsy buyer outside of the United States. Our revenue is diversified, generated from a mix of marketplace activities and the services we provide to Etsy sellers to help them create and grow their businesses. Marketplace revenue is made up of two components: the $0.20 listing fee that an Etsy seller pays for each item she lists and the 3.5% transaction fee she pays for each completed transaction. Seller Services revenue includes the fees our sellers pay Etsy for services, which include Promoted Listings, our ad service for prominent placement in on-site search results, Direct Checkout, our payment processing service, and Shipping Labels, which allows sellers to purchase shipping labels through our platform. Other revenue includes the fees we receive from a third-party payment processor. We operate at the center of several converging macroeconomic trends in online and mobile commerce, employment, consumption and manufacturing. We believe that in combination these trends will benefit Etsy sellers engaging in their creative passion, working for themselves and defining success on their own terms; Etsy buyers accessing a diverse, global marketplace of goods that have historically been found in highly fragmented markets; and, increasingly, values-aligned manufacturers using modern tools to craft goods in responsible partnership with Etsy sellers. We are focused on four key strategies that we believe will allow us to sustain and grow the Etsy community: Make Etsy an Everyday Experience Build Local Marketplaces, Globally Build High-Impact Seller Services Expand the Etsy Economy Etsy was founded in June 2005 in Brooklyn, New York. On April 21, 2015, we completed our initial public offering (the "IPO") and our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "ETSY." 1 Table of Contents Our Values Our values are integral to everything we do. We are a mindful, transparent and humane business. We believe that business interests and social and environmental responsibility are interwoven and aligned and that the power of business should be used to strengthen communities and empower people. To demonstrate our commitment, we monitor our efforts to minimize the harm and maximize the benefit that we have on people and the planet and then publish an annual Progress Report to publicly report our results. B Lab, an independent nonprofit organization, has certified us as a B Corporation for our adherence to certain social and environmental standards. In addition, Fortune has recognized us as a great place to work in 2013, 2014 and 2015. We plan and build for the long term. We want to build a company that lasts, and we plan to measure our success in years and decades. Etsy sellers in particular depend on us and on our platform to grow their businesses, so we will strive to make decisions that are best for the long-term health of our ecosystem. Our ecosystem consists of Etsy and the people and communities around the world who benefit from our platform. We value craftsmanship in all we make. Craftsmanship is the marriage of skill and passion. We believe every job at our company should demonstrate our commitment to craft. We are an engineering-driven company, and we think of our code as craft: we are makers of the products and services that members of our community use, and we approach the work we do with the same care and inspiration as do Etsy sellers. We believe fun should be part of everything we do. Our mission includes fostering a world in which personal fulfillment is a key element of success. We believe that this way of working is connected and joyful. We strive to do excellent work and bring a sense of humor and playfulness to it. We keep it real, always. We have the courage and the will to do business in ways that are unconventional and impactful. We strive to stay genuine, maintaining integrity, humility and sincerity in everything we do. When we feel that we are not being true to our values or our mission, we are not afraid to stop and change course. Our Community Our community includes Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners, manufacturers and Etsy employees. Etsy Sellers: Creative Entrepreneurs Etsy sellers join our community to be part of a vibrant global-local marketplace that allows them to express their creativity and turn their passion into a business while connecting to thoughtful consumers locally and around the world. As of December 31, 2015 , there were 1.6 million active sellers on our platform and more than 13% of active sellers as of that date had been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Etsy Sellers 2 Table of Contents We support a diverse group of artists, makers, designers and collectors from around the worldfrom the solo artisan to the full-time jewelry maker with staff; from the antique furniture collector to the textile graphic designer partnering with a small-batch manufacturer. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants, and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. We survey our sellers every two years and in November 2014, we conducted a survey of U.S. Etsy sellers who made a sale in the preceding 12 months. The 2014 Seller Survey, which included responses from 4,000 sellers, reveals a unique population of Internet-enabled creative entrepreneurs who are building businesses on their own termsprioritizing flexibility, independence and creativity. Some Etsy sellers are looking for extra pocket money, while others depend on their shops to support themselves and their families. According to our 2014 Seller Survey, among U.S. Etsy sellers: 86% are women; 95% run their shops from their homes; 90% aspire to grow their sales in the future; 79% started their Etsy shop as an outlet for creativity; 65% started their Etsy shop as a way to supplement income; and 76% consider their Etsy shop to be a business. Etsy Buyers: Thoughtful Consumers Etsy buyers visit our marketplace to discover a broad selection of unique goods in dozens of retail categories that are hard to find elsewhere, ranging from a $5 ornament to a $50 hand-knit sweater to a $2,000 custom-made coffee table. In a 2015 survey of Etsy buyers, 92% agreed that Etsy offers products they cannot find elsewhere. We believe many Etsy buyers are motivated by more than simply price and convenience; we believe they also value craftsmanship, artistry, uniqueness, authenticity and sustainability. We find that Etsy buyers want to know how items were made, where they were made and who made them. In our marketplace, Etsy buyers can enjoy a personalized shopping experience and build relationships through direct interactions with Etsy sellers. Etsy buyers can also purchase customized items or other bespoke goods from Etsy sellers. By buying in our marketplace, Etsy buyers are supporting creative entrepreneurs in their local communities and around the world. As of December 31, 2015 , there were 24.0 million active buyers on our platform. Marketplace Activity Wholesale Partners Retailers who have joined our Wholesale offering, which we launched in August 2014, are also part of our community. From local boutiques to national chains such as Land of Nod, Lou & Grey, Macy's and Whole Foods, retailers use our platform to connect directly with Etsy sellers and to add unique and distinctive items to their store offerings. In 2015, we introduced our Wholesale Retailer Commitments, which are a set of guidelines that our large retail partners have agreed to follow when 3 Table of Contents working with Etsy sellers. The Commitments, which include terms such as quick and fair payment, are intended to foster relationships that lead to mutual success. Manufacturing Partners Etsy's mission to reimagine commerce includes our efforts to reimagine manufacturing. We are committed to helping Etsy sellers who share our values of authorship, responsibility and transparency and who want to grow their businesses by forming responsible partnerships with manufacturers. For example, an Etsy seller might work with a cut-and-sew shop to make clothes she has designed, a casting house that casts wax models for her jewelry designs or a digital printing house that prints her photographs on household items. In addition to finding manufacturers on their own, Etsy sellers can find manufacturers through our new Etsy Manufacturing marketplace that we launched in September 2015. We launched Etsy Manufacturing to help Etsy sellers connect directly with manufacturers who commit to certain practices and value transparent connections. We hope to foster responsible and creative partnerships between the designers and manufacturers of goods, to prioritize transparency and to help our community learn about the unique stories and people behind each item. Manufacturers who apply to join Etsy Manufacturing must commit to certain ethical expectations and to operating a safe and just workplace, with transparency and reliable customer service. As of the end of 2015 , only manufacturers in the United States or Canada may participate in Etsy Manufacturing and there is no fee for participation. An Etsy seller who would like to work with a manufacturer, whether found through the Etsy Manufacturing marketplace or on her own, must apply. Our Responsible Seller Growth team reviews every application. We do not review or approve the manufacturer; instead, we look to the Etsy seller to provide evidence of authorship, responsibility and transparency. We also ask Etsy sellers to work with manufacturers who adhere to our ethical expectations: humane working conditions, non-discrimination policies, sustainability practices and no child, youth or involuntary labor. To encourage transparency, Etsy sellers are required to disclose their use of manufacturers in their Etsy shop. Etsy Employees We too are members of our community. Whether crafting our policies, talking with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in our online forums or building the tools and services underlying our marketplace, our employees create genuine and lasting connections in our community. Etsy employees emphasize building personal relationships with Etsy sellers, visiting their shops, inviting them to our offices for lunch or celebrating with them at in-person events. In addition, each of our employees, including management, is expected to perform support rotations to help foster connections with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and to help us better understand their needs. We pride ourselves on our values-based work culture. We emphasize respect, direct communication and fun. We focus on maximizing our employees professional and personal well-being. We evaluate performance on traditional business metrics and on adherence to our mission and values. We believe employee happiness comes from engaging and fulfilling work and from ample personal and professional growth opportunities. We invest heavily in employee development by offering coaching, skills workshops and training. We actively encourage personal education through arts and crafts workshops and employee-taught classes called Etsy School, covering subjects ranging from screen printing to Python programming. Etsy engineering is widely known for its thought-leading approaches to software development as well as its unique engineering culture. Our engineering team coined the phrase Code as Craft to describe our love for building software and our melding of engineering discipline and individual craftsmanship. We believe our engineers have the skills, practices and experience needed to embrace the change the future inevitably brings. As of December 31, 2015 , we had 819 employees worldwide, with 496 in our offices in Brooklyn, New York. Of those employees, we had 257 in engineering, 84 in product, 221 in member operations, 196 in corporate and 61 in marketing. We proactively work and recruit to improve the gender balance at all levels of our company. As of December 31, 2015 , 54% of employees identified as female. As of December 31, 2015, 50% of managers and 32% of product, engineering and technical operations employees identified as female. 4 Table of Contents Etsy.org In January 2015, we formed Etsy.org, a Delaware non-profit organization, to build innovative business education programs that emphasize personal growth and offer the skills and connections that entrepreneurs need to build and run businesses that regenerate communities and the planet. In January 2015, we issued 188,235 shares of our common stock to Etsy.org, and we used $300,000 of the proceeds of our initial public offering to partially fund Etsy.org. Our Platform Our platform is a vehicle for person-to-person commerce, both globally and locally. Our platform includes our marketplace, our Seller Services, our technology and our community, both online and offline. The core of our platform is our marketplace, which connects people around the world to make, sell and buy unique goods. The Etsy Seller Experience Our platform makes it easy for an Etsy seller to open an Etsy shop and operate her business. We help the Etsy seller in the following ways: Seller Services. We offer a variety of services to help Etsy sellers build their personal brands, engage potential customers and complete transactions. We currently have three seller services: Promoted Listings. Our Promoted Listings offering enables an Etsy seller to pay a cost-per-click based fee to feature and promote her goods in search results generated by Etsy buyers on our platform. This service allows an Etsy seller to target Etsy buyers who are specifically searching for goods similar to those she offers for sale. Direct Checkout. Our Direct Checkout offering allows Etsy sellers to accept various forms of payment such as credit cards, debit cards, PayPal and Etsy gift cards. As of December 31, 2015 , Direct Checkout was available in 22 countries and 10 currencies. In January 2016, Direct Checkout was expanded and is currently available in 34 countries in total. Once an Etsy buyer makes payment, the Etsy seller receives the funds in her own bank account and in her local currency. Shipping Labels. Etsy sellers can purchase United States Postal Service and Canada Post shipping labels through our platform with the appropriate amount of postage. The ability to print shipping labels at home reduces the cost and time it takes Etsy sellers to ship goods to Etsy buyers globally. Use of Seller Services in 2015 Mobile. We developed our Sell on Etsy mobile app to help Etsy sellers operate their shops and manage orders. Etsy sellers can also access communication, shop management tools and help resources through the Sell on Etsy mobile app. During 2015 , 43.2% of our 2015 active sellers used our Sell on Etsy app. Seller Dashboard. Etsy sellers can analyze visits to their shop and listings, estimate the effectiveness of their spending on Promoted Listings, monitor orders and track sales using our online seller dashboard. Etsy sellers can access analytics on the dashboard on our website or on our Sell on Etsy mobile app. 5 Table of Contents Education. We provide extensive educational resources to teach Etsy sellers how to build and grow their businesses on our platform, including blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on our website), access to our online forums and insights from our support teams. In addition to our own educational resources, Etsy sellers connect through Etsy Teams to build personal relationships, collaborate and educate and support each other. The Etsy Buyer Experience To help Etsy buyers discover and purchase items that they love, we provide a number of tools, including: Communication. We believe human connection is central to Etsy buyers engagement. Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers use the Conversations tool on our platform to communicate, person to person, about their orders, to request custom goods or personalization of goods or simply to have a conversation about the product or the process. In 2015 , Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers sent 234 million messages on our platform. In addition to our Conversations tool, we encourage engagement between Etsy buyers and Etsy sellers in a variety of ways. For example, in 2015 , we introduced a mobile app feature that enables Etsy buyers to share a photo when they post a five-star review of an item and to more easily share reviews on social media. We also launched Etsy Local on our mobile apps so that Etsy buyers can more easily find Etsy sellers and their goods offline at nearby events such as craft fairs, flea markets or local shops. Search and discovery. Our platform is engineered to provide a personalized experience to each Etsy buyer, adjusting in real time based on her interactions with our marketplace. An Etsy buyer may search for an item using our search tool bar and filter the results by color, price, location or other characteristics. She may browse through items, creating an activity feed by favoriting items that catch her eye and by following shops and tastemakers. In 2015 , Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers tagged 1.1 billion favorites on our platform. We glean insights from Etsy buyers purchases and other interactions on our marketplace through our machine-learning algorithms and through traditional information retrieval techniques, such as cookies. We use these insights to personalize the activity feed an Etsy buyer sees when she comes to Etsy, with suggestions of shops or tastemakers to follow and items to buy or favorite. We use the data we collect and the insights we gain to match Etsy sellers goods with Etsy buyers tastes and interests. In 2015 , we updated the search function in our marketplace to better showcase the breadth of the items available and to help Etsy buyers more easily browse, filter and buy goods, even when they may not have something specific in mind. Our large and engaged community accessed more than 5 billion search page views in 2015, including searches using our mobile apps. Mobile. We strive to keep Etsy buyers engaged wherever they are, by providing the functionality of our website in iOS and Android mobile apps, specifically crafted for Etsy buyers. Our mobile apps for Etsy buyers include search and discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features similar to those that Etsy buyers enjoy on our desktop site. In order to provide an enjoyable shopping experience for Etsy buyers through our mobile apps, we use deep linking to automatically transition Etsy buyers from a mobile web experience to the mobile app when they encounter a link to an Etsy shop or item. In addition, we want to make it even easier for Etsy buyers to sign up, sign in and check out when using their mobile devices. In 2015, we added social sign-up and sign-in through Facebook and Google and expanded mobile payment and digital wallet options for Apple Pay, Google Wallet and others. Our mobile apps have been downloaded 31.8 million times as of December 31, 2015 . Our Policies Members of our community rely on us to be a trusted marketplace. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners and manufacturing partners participating on our platform. Most fundamentally, we require that goods listed in our marketplace be handmade, vintage or craft supplies. Handmade items begin with the imagination and creativity of the Etsy seller. To conform to our vision of handmade, we ask that the Etsy seller follow these three principles: Authorship : The Etsy seller should have a meaningful design and creative role in the items she is selling. Responsibility : The Etsy seller should know how her goods are made and by whom. Transparency : The Etsy seller should be open and honest about how her goods are made and by whom. We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing unique goods from a shop that adheres to certain principles. Etsy buyers have a high degree of insight into Etsy sellers business practices. Our policies ask Etsy sellers to be transparent 6 Table of Contents about themselves, their businesses and the goods they sell. We also have dedicated teams and sophisticated tools to help enforce our policies. For example, our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. Our Trust and Safety team helps to prevent and detect fraud through human review and automated tools and algorithms. We also recognize that sometimes transactions dont always go as planned. When that happens, our online Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. Our Opportunities and Strengths Our Opportunities We operate at the center of several converging macroeconomic trends in online and mobile commerce, employment, consumption and manufacturing. We believe that in combination these trends will benefit Etsy sellers engaging in their creative passion, working for themselves and defining success on their own terms; Etsy buyers accessing a diverse, global marketplace of goods that have historically been found in highly fragmented markets; and, increasingly, values-aligned manufacturers using modern tools to craft goods in responsible partnership with Etsy sellers. We also believe that these trends create a strong, long-term market opportunity for Etsy that will allow us to continue to expand our marketplace globally, attract buyers who want something different than a conventional, mass-produced retail shopping experience, deepen the connections within our community and introduce new Seller Services and tools. Most large retailers today follow a different formula from Etsy, emphasizing efficiency and scale and pressuring their suppliers to reduce their costs in order to serve mass-produced goods at the lowest-possible prices. We believe, however, that many consumers want to purchase goods that are unique and that reflect their personality and style, not simply mass-produced, generic goods. Finding these goods can be difficult, as markets for such goods have historically been highly fragmented across boutiques, consignment stores and other venues and marketplaces. Etsy sellers offer goods in dozens of online retail categories, including jewelry, stationery, clothing, home goods, craft supplies and vintage items. Euromonitor, a consumer market research company, estimated that the global online retail market was $991 billion in 2015, up from $483 billion in 2011, representing a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 19.7%. This growth is expected to continue, with the global online retail market becoming a significantly larger portion of the total retail market, reaching $1.8 trillion by 2019, implying a 15.5% CAGR from 2015. (Source: Euromonitor - 2016 Passport Retailing.) Our Strengths We believe we can benefit from these positive trends by continuing to leverage and expand our platform. Our platform is one of the largest online marketplaces in the world and we have achieved our scale because of the following key strengths: Our Trusted Marketplace. We have built a trusted marketplace that embodies our values-based culture, emphasizing respect, direct communication and fun. Our reputation depends upon our Etsy sellers, their unique offerings and their adherence to our policies. We establish trust in our marketplace in a variety of ways. For example, our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners and manufacturing partners participating on our platform. Transparency is one of our core values and Etsy's transparency with our community helps to support the trustworthiness of our marketplace. For example, we publish an annual Progress Report that details our progress toward our ideals and shares our hopes for the years to come. In 2015, we also released a Transparency Report, which, among other things, describes the steps we take when items that do not meet our guidelines are listed on our platform, or when listed items are alleged to infringe third party rights. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections between Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and apps and in-person events, highlighting personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories and use new tools, such as shop videos, to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. The trustworthiness of our marketplace and the connections among people in our community are the cornerstones of our business. 7 Table of Contents Our Passionate, Engaged and Loyal Etsy Sellers and Etsy Buyers. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are passionate, engaged and loyalnot only to us, but to each otherbuilding a strong community. Our active sellers and active buyers remain so for multiple years. For example, 32.3% of active sellers and 44.7% of active buyers as of December 31, 2011 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform, and 32.3% of active sellers and 42.5% of active buyers as of December 31, 2012 continued to be active sellers and active buyers through their fourth year on the platform. In addition, as of December 31, 2015 , 13% of active sellers have been selling on Etsy for more than four years. Likewise, as of December 31, 2015 , 15% of active buyers have been Etsy buyers for more than four years. Repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In 2015, 81% of our GMS came from repeat purchases. This was up from 78% in 2014. Also in 2015, approximately 47% of our active buyers made 2 or more purchases in the previous 12 months, up slightly from 2014. Unlike many other online commerce companies, the vast majority of visits come to Etsy from organic or direct sources. In 2015 , 91% of visits came to Etsy.com from direct, organic or email sources. A visit represents activity from a unique browser or mobile app. A visit ends after 30 minutes of inactivity. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers also spend time with each other. For example, they sent 234 million messages on our platform in 2015 using our Conversations tool. As of December 31, 2015 , approximately 21% of active sellers belong to a self-organized Etsy Team, developing supportive personal relationships with other Etsy sellers as they build their independent creative businesses. Currently, over 12,000 Etsy Teams have formed around the world. The passion and loyalty demonstrated by Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers underlies the growth and scale of our platform. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Factors Affecting Our PerformanceGrowth and Retention of Active Sellers and Active Buyers for more information. GMS Contribution by Purchase Type 8 Table of Contents Visits Contribution by Source Type Our Innovative Technology. Our widely-respected engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages and devices. Our team is at the forefront of the software engineering practice of continuous deployment. We update our code as often as every 20 minutes, and as many as 70 times per day, with more than 12,000 deploys during the year ended December 31, 2015 . To enhance the performance of our platform, we collect and analyze a large volume of data. For example, we currently collect more than two million discrete metrics, which we expect will increase as we grow. Further, in the field of search relevance and purchase recommendations, we currently collect and analyze more than 1,200 terabytes of data to calculate search and personalization relevance signals in real time to recommend goods to each prospective Etsy buyer from a broad inventory of unique goods. Mobile commerce is increasingly important in online retail. For example, comScore has estimated that since the first quarter of 2013, consumers visiting online commerce sites spent more than half of their browsing time on mobile devices. However, spending via mobile devices represented only 16% of total online commerce dollars in the third quarter of 2015. We are a mobile-first company and have focused on expanding our mobile capabilities in recent years. We developed our Sell on Etsy mobile app to help the Etsy seller operate her shop and manage orders. Our mobile website and our Buy on Etsy mobile app for Etsy buyers, which we developed to keep Etsy buyers engaged wherever they are, includes search, discovery, curation, personalization and social shopping features, optimized for the mobile experience. During 2015, we continued to enhance our mobile app for Etsy buyers in many ways including adding new deep linking functionality, integrating social sign-up and sign-in, expanding our mobile payment and digital wallet options with Apple Pay, Google Wallet and others. For the year ended December 31, 2015 , approximately 60% of our visits and approximately 43% of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. This is a strong improvement compared with 2014 , during which 54% of our visits and 37% of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. In addition, we are focused on continuing to narrow the gap between mobile visits and mobile GMS and we saw this metric improve in 2015 . Our Scaled, Global-Local Marketplace. Our marketplace is global-local, meaning that we focus on building local Etsy communities around the world. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in these local communities, in turn, have global reach and access through our platform. In particular, we seek to develop local markets in key countries outside the United States where we see both local buyer and seller activity. Currently, Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are based in nearly every country in the world and our marketplace is available in 10 languages. In 2015 , 29.8% of our GMS involved an Etsy seller or Etsy buyer outside of the United States. We believe our global-local marketplace creates strong competitive advantages outside the United States because our success is not dependent on scale in any given country; instead, the diverse location of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers creates the scale, and a concentration of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in any given region can give rise to a vibrant local Etsy marketplace. During 2015, we launched several new features to support our global-local marketplace, including curated Editors Picks shopping pages and direct Etsy emails to buyers that are locally relevant to a specific region. To help Etsy 9 Table of Contents buyers who prefer to buy locally in Australia and the United Kingdom, we made it easier to find items from their home countries on our marketplace. Were also focused on providing additional local payment options. Our Seller-Aligned Business Model. Etsy sellers are drawn to our platform because we empower them to succeed, and as Etsy sellers succeed, so do we. Our seller-aligned business model creates network effects. The more we invest in our platform, the more we enable Etsy sellers to pursue their craft and grow their businesses and the easier we make it for Etsy buyers to find unique goods. We call this Etsys Empowerment Loop. Some 76% of Etsy sellers consider their Etsy shops to be businesses and 90% want to grow their businesses, as indicated by our 2014 Seller Survey. We focus on offering Seller Services that help an Etsy seller spend more of her time on her creative passion and less of her time on the administrative aspects of running a business. During the year ended December 31, 2015 , 48.1% of Etsy sellers used at least one of our Seller Services. Similarly, our manufacturing and Wholesale programs enable an Etsy seller to grow her business on our platform. Etsy Empowerment Loop Our Strategy: The Path Ahead We have four key strategic priorities: Make Etsy an Everyday Experience. The power of human connection is central to the Etsy experience. We emphasize relationships, connecting creative entrepreneurs to thoughtful consumers around the world and we continually strive to make those connections a daily habit for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. The everyday experience starts with mobile. In 2015 , approximately 60% of our visits and approximately 43% of our GMS were generated on a mobile device. We strive to help the Etsy seller manage her shop, connect with Etsy buyers and sell her goods on our platform, all on her mobile device. We plan to bring the Etsy experience to local communities, using mobile technology to highlight Etsy sellers goods in nearby brick-and-mortar stores and crafts fairs. We strive to make it easy and fun for Etsy buyers to connect with Etsy sellers and to discover and purchase Etsy sellers unique goods, particularly though mobile devices. We plan to continue to improve Etsy buyers engagement with our community through enhanced content, search and discovery. We believe that improvements like these will be an important foundation for our future mobile development and enable us to continue to drive mobile app usage and narrow the gap between mobile visits and mobile GMS. Build Local Marketplaces, Globally. Our vision is global and local. In 2015 , 31.3% of Etsy sellers were located outside the United States, and 29.8% of our GMS involved an Etsy seller or Etsy buyer outside of the United States. Although we promote cross-border transactions, our strategy is to build and deepen local Etsy communities around the world, each with its own ecosystem of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. For example, although GMS generated between a non-U.S. buyer and a non-U.S. seller both in the same country is a small percentage of our total GMS, excluding our French marketplace ALM, this GMS grew approximately 50% in 2015 compared with 2014. We plan to continue to invest in local marketing and content and other 10 Table of Contents locally-relevant tools and enhancements around the world to encourage these connections. We believe our locally-focused work will broaden the reach of our global platform. Offer High-Impact Seller Services. Seller Services, such as Promoted Listings, Direct Checkout and Shipping Labels, help an Etsy seller spend more time on the pleasures of her craft and less time on the administrative aspects of her business. We launched our first seller service in late 2011 and in 2015 Seller Services represented $136.6 million , 49.9% of our revenue, a 65.6% increase over 2014 , and $82.5 million , or 42.2% of total revenue in 2014 , a 92.7% increase over 2013 . According to our 2014 Seller Survey, for every hour that an Etsy seller spends making her products, she spends another hour doing business-related tasks, including inventory management, shipping, customer service, marketing and accounting. We intend to enhance existing Seller Services, extend their geographic reach and introduce new ones to increase the amount of time an Etsy seller can devote to her craft. How an Etsy Seller Spends Her Time Expand the Etsy Economy. We intend to fulfill our mission to reimagine commerce by expanding the impact of our platform. By further developing our manufacturing program, we believe we are helping Etsy sellers who want to grow their businesses connect with skilled partners, while helping to revitalize manufacturing in local communities. We will also continue to focus on our Wholesale offering, which we launched in August 2014, so that Etsy sellers can sell their products to select retail partners such as Land of Nod, Lou & Grey, Macy's and Whole Foods. We plan to focus on strategic partnerships, technological advances and public-private endeavors such as our Craft Entrepreneurship program, which we believe will bring the benefit of the Etsy Economy to more people and more communities. Craft Entrepreneurship is an educational program intended to empower creative people in underserved communities with the resources to start and run an online business with Etsy and/or elsewhere. As of December 31, 2015 , weve partnered with local organizations in 23 cities in Australia, Canada, the United States and the United Kingdom to provide Craft Entrepreneurship classes. We've committed to expand Craft Entrepreneurship to a total of 30 cities by June 2016. Competition We compete with retailers for the Etsy seller. An Etsy seller can list her goods for sale with online retailers or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplace or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform. We are able to compete for Etsy sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplace and the breadth of our online presence, the number and engagement of Etsy buyers, our Seller Services, our seller education resources and tools, our policies and fees, our mobile apps, the strength of our community and our values. We also compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces or national retail chains or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for Etsy buyers based on the unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our marketplace, our brand awareness, the person-to-person commerce experience, our reputation as a trusted marketplace, our mobile apps, ease of payment and the availability and reliability of our platform. 11 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, primarily including trade secret, copyright and trademark laws in the United States and abroad, and we use confidentiality procedures, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements and other contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. While we have obtained or applied for patent protection for some of our intellectual property, we generally do not rely on patents as a principal means of protecting intellectual property. We register domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad. We also rely upon common law protection for certain trademarks. Circumstances beyond our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we operate. In addition, the efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient or effective. Any impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business, our ability to compete and our operating results. Government Regulation As with any company operating on the Internet, we grapple with a growing number of local, national and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently still evolving. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, U.S. federal and state laws, EU directives, and other national laws govern the processing of payments, consumer protection and the privacy of consumer information; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. The growing regulation of e-commerce worldwide could impose additional compliance burdens and costs on us or on Etsy sellers, and could subject us to significant liability for any failure to comply. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, anti-corruption and export control laws. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) in 2020, which will follow the fifth anniversary of the completion of our initial public offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.0 billion or (c) in which we become a large accelerated filer, which means that we have been public for at least 12 months, have filed at least one annual report and the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last day of our then most recently completed second fiscal quarter, and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during the prior three-year period. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption and, therefore, we are subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. 12 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and file or furnish reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. The information on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and investors should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 55 Washington Street, Suite 512, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com or by calling (347) 382-7582. Additionally, our SEC reports may be read and copied at the SEC Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling (800) SEC-0330. Our SEC reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. For a summary of our financial information by geographic location, see "Note 13Segment and Geographic Information" in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. For information regarding our product development expenditures in the last three fiscal years, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of Operations. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, our consolidated financial statements and related notes, "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Factors Affecting Our Performance" and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $54.1 million , $15.2 million , and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. As of December 31, 2015 , we had an accumulated deficit of $86.4 million . We may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We expect that our operating expenses will increase substantially as we hire additional employees, increase our marketing efforts, expand our operations and continue to invest in the development of our platform, including new services and features for our community. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and our revenue may not increase sufficiently to offset these additional expenses. In addition, our revenue may decline for a number of reasons, including those described in these Risk Factors. Further, our revenue growth rate, particularly our marketplace revenue, may continue to decelerate in the future for a number of reasons, including the gradual deceleration of our GMS growth rate. For further information about the rate of revenue and GMS growth, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Revenue." You should not rely on growth rates of prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results, as well as our key metrics, may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. These reasons include those described in these Risk Factors as well as the following: fluctuations in revenue generated from Etsy sellers on our platform, including as a result of the seasonality of marketplace transactions and Etsy sellers use of Seller Services; our success in attracting and retaining Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers; the amount and timing of our operating expenses; the timing and success of new services and features we introduce; our success in executing on our four key strategies; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments; our ability to manage our existing business and future growth; disruptions or defects in our marketplace, such as privacy or data security breaches; the impact of our revised global corporate structure that was implemented on January 1, 2015; and economic and market conditions, such as currency fluctuations. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and key metrics may cause those results to fall below our own financial projections or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our results could also cause a number of other problems. For example, analysts or investors might change their models for valuing our common stock, we could experience short-term liquidity issues, our ability to retain or attract key personnel may diminish and other unanticipated issues may arise. 14 Table of Contents In addition, we believe that our quarterly operating results and key metrics may vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. For example, our overall historical growth rate may have overshadowed the effect of seasonal variations on our historical operating results. These seasonal effects may become more pronounced over time, which could also cause our operating results and key metrics to fluctuate. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our growth depends on our ability to attract and retain an active and engaged community of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in attracting and retaining active sellers and active buyers. For example, our revenue is driven by the number of active sellers, seller engagement, the number of active buyers, buyer engagement and our ability to maintain a trusted marketplace. We must continue to encourage Etsy sellers to list items for sale and use our Seller Services and encourage Etsy buyers to purchase items in our marketplace. We believe that many new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers find Etsy by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. If existing Etsy sellers are dissatisfied with their experience on our platform, they may stop listing items in our marketplace and may stop referring others to us. Likewise, if existing Etsy buyers do not find our platform appealing, whether because of a negative experience, lack of buyer-friendly features, declining interest in the nature of the goods offered by Etsy sellers or other factors, they may make fewer purchases and they may stop referring others to us. Under these circumstances, we may have difficulty attracting new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers without incurring additional marketing expense. Even if we are able to attract new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to replace the ones that we lose, they may not maintain the same level of activity, and the revenue generated from new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may not be as high as the revenue generated from the ones who leave our marketplace. If we are unable to retain existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and attract new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers who contribute to an active community, our growth prospects could be harmed and our business could be adversely affected. The trustworthiness of our marketplace and the connections within our community are important to our success. If we are unable to maintain them, our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could suffer. We have built a trusted marketplace that embodies our values-based culture, emphasizing respect, direct communication and fun. Our reputation depends upon our Etsy sellers, their unique offerings and their adherence to our policies. We establish trust in our marketplace in a variety of ways. For example, our policies are designed to encourage transparency and clearly outline the rights and responsibilities of Etsy sellers, Etsy buyers, wholesale partners and manufacturing partners participating on our platform. We strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that she is purchasing unique goods from a small business that adheres to certain principles. Our Integrity team uses a combination of machine learning, automated systems and community-generated flags to review items and shops that may violate our policies. We also have sophisticated tools to detect fraud and we strive to prohibit bad actors from using our platform. We ask our large wholesale retail partners to agree to the Etsy Wholesale Retailer Commitments, which are a set of guidelines to follow when working with Etsy sellers and are intended to foster relationships that lead to mutual success. In addition, manufacturers who apply to join Etsy Manufacturing must commit to ethical expectations and to operating a safe and just workplace, with transparency and reliable customer service. Transparency is one of our core values and Etsy's transparency with our community helps to support the trustworthiness of our marketplace. For example, we publish an annual Progress Report that details our progress toward our ideals and shares our hopes for the years to come. In 2015, we also released a Transparency Report, which, among other things, describes the steps we take when items that do not meet our guidelines are listed on our platform, or when listed items are alleged to infringe third party rights. We also establish trust by emphasizing the person behind every transaction. We deepen connections among members of our community through our direct communication tools, seller stories on our website and our in-person events, which highlight personal relationships as a key part of the Etsy experience. For example, Etsy sellers are encouraged to share their stories and use new tools, such as shop videos, to reach Etsy buyers on our platform and on social media. We also recognize that sometimes transactions dont always go as planned. When that happens, our Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes. We also encourage our employees to build meaningful connections with other members of our community. For example, each of our employees, including management, is expected to perform support rotations to help foster connections with Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and to help us better understand their needs. 15 Table of Contents The trustworthiness of our marketplace and the connections among the members of our community are the cornerstones of our business. Many things could undermine these cornerstones, such as: complaints or negative publicity about us, our platform, or our policies and guidelines, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; an inability to gain the trust of prospective buyers; lack of awareness of our policies; changes to our policies that members of our community perceive as inconsistent with our values or that are not clearly articulated; a failure to enforce our policies effectively, fairly and transparently, including, for example, by allowing the widespread listing of prohibited items in our marketplace; a failure to respond to feedback from our community; or a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our values. If we are unable to maintain a trustworthy marketplace and encourage connections among members of our community, then our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could be impaired and our reputation and business could be adversely affected. Adherence to our values and our focus on long-term sustainability may negatively influence our short- or medium-term financial performance. Our values are integral to everything we do. Accordingly, we intend to focus on the long-term sustainability of our business,our ecosystem, and expanding the Etsy Economy, which is one of our key strategies. We may take actions that we believe will benefit our business and our ecosystem and, therefore, our stockholders over a longer period of time, even if those actions do not maximize short- or medium-term financial results. However, these longer-term benefits may not materialize within the timeframe we expect or at all. For example: we may choose to prohibit the sale of items in our marketplace that we believe are inconsistent with our values even though we could benefit financially from the sale of those items; we may choose to revise our policies in ways that we believe will be beneficial to our community and our ecosystem in the long term even though the changes may be perceived unfavorably; or we may take actions, such as investing in alternative forms of shipping or locating our servers in low-impact data centers, that reduce our environmental footprint even though these actions may be more costly than other alternatives. We are a Certified B Corporation. The term Certified B Corporation does not refer to a particular form of legal entity, but instead refers to companies that are certified by B Lab, an independent nonprofit organization, as meeting rigorous standards of social and environmental performance, accountability and transparency. B Lab sets the standards for Certified B Corporation certification and may change those standards over time. These standards may not be appropriately tailored to the legal requirements of publicly-traded companies or to the operational requirements of larger companies. Our reputation could be harmed if we lose our status as a Certified B Corporation, whether by our choice or by our failure to meet B Labs certification requirements, if that change in status were to create a perception that we are more focused on financial performance and are no longer as committed to the values shared by Certified B Corporations. Likewise, our reputation could be harmed if our publicly reported B Corporation score declines and that created a perception that we have slipped in our satisfaction of the Certified B Corporation standards. Similarly, our reputation could be harmed if we take actions that are perceived to be misaligned with our values. 16 Table of Contents Expanding our community into markets outside of the United States is an important part of our strategy and the growth of our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. Our vision is global and local and building local marketplaces globally is one of our key strategies. Although we have a significant number of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers outside of the United States, we have limited experience in developing local markets outside the United States and may not execute our strategy successfully. Operating in markets outside of the United States also requires significant management attention, including managing and staffing operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, and adapting our platform to local markets. Despite our execution efforts, the nature of the goods that Etsy sellers list in our marketplace may not appeal to non-U.S. consumers in the same way as they do to consumers in the United States. In addition, non-U.S. buyers are not as familiar with our marketplace and brand as buyers in the United States and may not perceive us as relevant or trustworthy. Also, visits to our marketplace from Etsy buyers outside the United States may not convert into sales as often as visits from within the United States, including due to the impact of the strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the fact that a majority of the goods listed on our marketplace are denominated in U.S. dollars. Our success in markets outside the United States will be linked to our ability to attract local Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to our platform. If we are not able to expand into markets outside of the United States successfully, our growth prospects could be harmed. Competition is also likely to intensify in the international markets where we operate and plan to expand our operations. Local companies based in markets outside the United States may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, those local markets. Some of our competitors may also be able to develop and grow in international markets more quickly than we will. Continued expansion in markets outside of the United States may also require significant financial investment. These investments include marketing to attract and retain new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, developing localized services and payment processing functions, forming relationships with third-party service providers, supporting operations in multiple countries and potentially acquiring companies based outside the United States and integrating those companies with our operations. Our investment in markets outside of the United States may be more costly than we expect and our revenue may not increase sufficiently to offset these additional expenses. Further expansion into markets outside of the United States will subject us to risks associated with operations abroad. Doing business in markets outside of the United States subjects us to increased risks and burdens such as: complying with different regulatory standards (particularly including those related to the use of personal information, payment processing, intellectual property, consumer protection and taxation of goods and services); fluctuations of foreign exchange rates; potentially heightened risk of fraudulent transactions; limitations on the repatriation of funds; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and export control laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the UK Bribery Act of 2010, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; varying levels of Internet, e-commerce and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; our ability to enforce contracts and intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; and barriers to international trade, such as tariffs or other taxes. Etsy sellers face similar risks in conducting their businesses across borders. Even if we are successful in managing the risks of conducting our business across borders, if Etsy sellers are not, our business could be adversely affected. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations outside of the United States and cannot manage these risks effectively, the costs of doing business in those markets may be prohibitive or our expenses may increase disproportionately to the revenue generated in those markets. 17 Table of Contents We expect to continue to increase our marketing efforts to help grow our business, but those efforts may not be effective at attracting new Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and retaining existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. Maintaining and promoting awareness of our marketplace and broader platform is important to our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. We believe that much of the historical growth in the number of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers has originated from word-of-mouth referrals and other organic means, as our historical marketing efforts and expenditures have been relatively limited. We intend to continue to invest significant resources in marketing, with a particular focus on bringing more Etsy buyers to our platform. We anticipate that our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive as competition increases, and generating a meaningful return on those initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of these efforts, that additional revenue may not offset the expenses we incur. The marketing efforts we implement may not succeed for a variety of reasons, including our inability to execute and implement our plans. External factors beyond our control may also impact the success of our marketing initiatives. Our marketing efforts currently include search engine marketing, affiliate marketing, and display advertising, as well as search engine optimization, social media usage, mobile push notifications and email. We obtain a significant number of visits via search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. Search engines frequently change the algorithms that determine the ranking and display of results of a users search and may make other changes to the way results are displayed, which can negatively affect the placement of links to our marketplace and, therefore, reduce the number of visits to our marketplace. The growing use of online ad-blocking software, including on mobile devices, may also impact the success of our marketing efforts because we may reach a smaller audience and fail to bring more Etsy buyers to our platform. We also obtain a significant number of visits through email advertising. If we are unable to successfully deliver emails to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, or if Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers do not open our emails, whether by choice, because those emails are marked as low priority or spam, or for other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. Social networking websites, such as Facebook and Pinterest, are another important source of visits to our marketplace. As online commerce and social networking continue to evolve, we must maintain a presence within these networks. We may be unable to develop or maintain such a presence. Our payments system depends on third-party providers and is subject to evolving laws and regulations. Etsy buyers primarily pay for purchases using Direct Checkout or PayPal. In the United States and other countries where Direct Checkout is available, Etsy buyers can use Direct Checkout on our platform to pay with credit cards, debit cards, bank transfers, PayPal, Apple Pay, Google Wallet and Etsy gift cards, rather than being directed to a third-party payment platform. A significant portion of our GMS is processed through Direct Checkout, and a portion of our revenue is derived from Direct Checkout. We have engaged third-party service providers to perform underlying compliance, card processing, currency exchange, identity verification and fraud analysis services. If these service providers do not perform adequately or if our relationships with these service providers were to terminate, Etsy sellers ability to receive orders or payment could be adversely affected and our business would be harmed. In addition, if these providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses could increase. Alternatively, if we respond by increasing the fees we charge to Etsy sellers, some Etsy sellers may stop using Direct Checkout, stop listing new items for sale or even close their accounts altogether. The laws and regulations related to payments are complex and subject to change, and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort to comply with those laws and regulations. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, could result in liabilities, or could force us to stop offering Direct Checkout. As we expand the availability of Direct Checkout or offer new payment methods to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers in the future, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements. Further, through our agreement with our third-party credit card processor, we are indirectly subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, which are subject to change. We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. Our ability to expand our ecosystem is important to the growth of our business. We spend substantial time and resources creating new offerings in order to add new members to our community, grow our ecosystem and open new sales channels for Etsy sellers. For example, in October 2013, we expanded our ecosystem by allowing Etsy sellers to apply to work with values-aligned manufacturers and in September 2015 we announced the preliminary 18 Table of Contents launch of Etsy Manufacturing, a marketplace to help Etsy sellers find and connect directly with manufacturers to form responsible partnerships. Additionally, in August 2014, we added traditional retailers to our ecosystem with the launch of our Wholesale offering, which allows Etsy sellers to sell their products to retailers on our platform. Our efforts to expand our ecosystem could fail for many reasons, including lack of acceptance of our offerings by existing or new members of our community, our failure to market our offerings effectively, defects or errors in our new offerings or negative publicity about us or our new offerings. Diversifying our offerings, expanding our ecosystem and growing the Etsy Economy involve significant risk. For example, our initiatives may not drive increases in revenue, may require substantial investment and planning, and may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. We may be required to invest additional time and resources in the development and training of our existing community, particularly our employees who will help implement our expansion efforts. If we are unable to cost-effectively expand our ecosystem, then our growth prospects and competitive position may be harmed. We must enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new service and product introductions and changing customer demands. We spend substantial time and resources understanding the needs of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and responding to them. For example, we enhance our Seller Services, search and discovery functionality and the member experience on a regular basis. We also focus on providing additional Seller Services and tools to help Etsy sellers manage and scale their businesses. For example, in 2015, we introduced calculated shipping, which helps automate the most time-consuming aspects of determining shipping costs for Etsy sellers. In addition, we enhanced Direct Checkout by integrating PayPal payments, which enables Etsy sellers to accept PayPal on our platform and reach more Etsy buyers. Offering high-impact Seller Services is one of our key strategies. Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may not be satisfied with our enhancements or new offerings or may perceive that these offerings do not respond to their needs. In addition, developing new services and features is complex, and the timetable for commercial release is difficult to predict and may vary from our historical experience. As a result, the introduction of new offerings may occur after anticipated release dates or they may be introduced as pilot programs, which may not be continued for various reasons. Our new offerings also may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. If we do not continue to cost-effectively develop new offerings that satisfy Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, then our competitive position and growth prospects may be harmed. In addition, new offerings may have lower margins than existing offerings and our revenue from the new offerings may not be enough to offset the cost of developing them. If the mobile solutions available to Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are not effective, the use of our platform could decline. Making Etsy an everyday experience is one of our key strategies and starts with mobile. Visits and purchases made on mobile devices by consumers, including Etsy buyers, have increased significantly in recent years. The smaller screen size and reduced functionality associated with some mobile devices may make the use of our platform more difficult or less appealing. Visits to our marketplace on mobile devices may not convert into purchases as often as visits made through personal computers, which could result in less revenue for us. Etsy sellers are also increasingly using mobile devices to operate their businesses on our platform. If we are not able to deliver a rewarding experience on mobile devices, Etsy sellers ability to manage and grow their businesses may be harmed and, consequently, our business may suffer. Further, although we strive to provide engaging mobile experiences for both Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers who visit our mobile website using a browser on their mobile device, we depend on Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers downloading our mobile apps to provide them the optimal mobile experience. As new mobile devices and mobile platforms are released, we may encounter problems in developing or supporting apps for them. In addition, supporting new devices and mobile device operating systems may require substantial time and resources. The success of our mobile apps could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as: actions taken by providers of mobile operating systems or mobile app download stores; 19 Table of Contents unfavorable treatment received by our mobile apps, especially as compared to competing apps, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs to distribute or use our mobile apps; or changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps or that give preferential treatment to competitive products. If Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers encounter difficulty accessing or using our platform on their mobile devices, or if they choose not to use our platform on their mobile devices, our growth prospects and our business may be adversely affected. We rely on consumer discretionary spending and may be adversely affected by economic downturns and other macroeconomic conditions or trends. Macroeconomic conditions may adversely affect our business. If general economic conditions deteriorate in the United States or other markets where we operate, consumer discretionary spending may decline and demand for the goods available in our marketplace may be reduced. This would cause sales in our marketplace to decline and adversely impact our business. Conversely, if recent trends supporting self-employment and the desire for supplemental income were to reverse, the number of Etsy sellers offering their goods in our marketplace could decline and the number of goods listed in our marketplace could decline. In addition, we believe that currency exchange rates impact our GMS, with a strong U.S. dollar dampening demand for goods denominated in U.S. dollars from buyers outside the United States. In 2015 , approximately 90% of our GMS was denominated in U.S. dollars. Even without changes in economic conditions, the demand for the goods listed in our marketplace is dependent on consumer preferences. Consumer preferences can change quickly and may differ across generations and cultures. If demand for the goods that Etsy sellers offer in our marketplace declines, our business would be harmed. Trends in socially-conscious consumerism and buying locally could also shift or slow to the detriment of our business. Our growth prospects would also be hampered if the shift to online and mobile commerce does not continue. We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Our industry is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. To be successful, we need to attract and retain both Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. As a result, we face competition from a wide range of online and offline competitors. We compete with retailers for Etsy sellers. In addition to listing her goods for sale on Etsy, an Etsy seller can list her goods with other online retailers, such as Amazon, eBay or Alibaba, or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores and other venues or marketplaces. She may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplace or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling an Etsy seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platform, such as Square, Intuit and Shopify. We compete to attract, engage and retain Etsy sellers based on many factors, including: our brand awareness; the global scale of our marketplace and the breadth of our online presence; the number and engagement of Etsy buyers; the extent to which our Seller Services can ease the administrative tasks that an Etsy seller might encounter in running her business, including through mobile apps; our seller education resources and tools; our policies and fees; the ability to scale her business through our manufacturing program; 20 Table of Contents our mobile apps; the strength of our community; and our values. In addition, we compete with retailers for the attention of the Etsy buyer. An Etsy buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large marketplaces, such as Amazon, eBay or Alibaba, or national retail chains, such as Pottery Barn or Target, or local consignment and vintage stores or other venues or marketplaces. Many of these competitors offer low-cost or free shipping, fast shipping times, favorable return policies and other features that may be difficult or impossible for Etsy sellers to match. We compete to attract, engage and retain Etsy buyers based on many factors, including: the unique goods that Etsy sellers list in our marketplace; our brand awareness; the person-to-person commerce experience; our reputation for trustworthiness; our mobile apps; ease of payment; and the availability and reliability of our platform. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, better name recognition or more customers than we do. They may invest more to develop and promote their services than we do, and they may offer lower fees to sellers than we do. Further, our competitors could obtain preferential rates or shipping services, causing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to pay higher shipping costs or find alternative delivery services. Additionally, we believe that it is relatively easy for new businesses to create online commerce offerings or tools or services that enable entrepreneurship. Local companies or more established companies based in markets where we operate outside of the United States may also have a better understanding of local customs, providing them a competitive advantage. For example, in certain markets outside the United States, we compete with smaller, but similar, local online marketplaces with a focus on unique goods that are attempting to attract sellers and buyers in those markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to expend significant resources in response to our competitors actions, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on Etsy sellers to provide a fulfilling experience to Etsy buyers. A small portion of Etsy buyers complain to us about their experience with our platform. For example, Etsy buyers may report that they have not received the items that they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by an Etsy seller or that an Etsy seller has not been responsive to their questions. Although our Case System provides a way for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers to communicate with each other to resolve disputes, negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints could reduce our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers or damage our reputation. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are inadequate could have similar results. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse Etsy buyers for their purchases to help avoid harm to our reputation, but we may not be able to recover the funds we expend for those reimbursements. Anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to Etsy buyers could harm Etsy sellers. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of Etsy sellers, such as interruptions in order or payment processing, transportation disruptions, natural disasters, inclement weather, terrorism, public health crises or 21 Table of Contents political unrest. Disruptions in the operations of a substantial number of Etsy sellers could also result in negative experiences for a substantial number of Etsy buyers, which could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our reputation may be harmed if members of our community use unethical business practices. Our emphasis on our values makes our reputation particularly sensitive to allegations of unethical business practices by Etsy sellers or other members of our community. Our policies promote legal and ethical business practices, such as encouraging Etsy sellers to work only with manufacturers who do not use child or involuntary labor, who do not discriminate and who promote sustainability and humane working conditions. However, we do not control Etsy sellers or other members of our community or their business practices and cannot ensure that they comply with our policies. If members of our community engage in illegal or unethical business practices or are perceived to do so, we may receive negative publicity and our reputation may be harmed. Failure to deal effectively with fraud could harm our business. Although we have measures in place to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activity in our marketplace, those measures may not always be effective. For example, Etsy sellers occasionally receive orders placed with fraudulent or stolen credit card data. Under current credit card practices, we could be held liable for orders placed through Direct Checkout with fraudulent credit card data even if the associated financial institution approved the credit card transaction. Although we attempt to detect or challenge fraudulent transactions, we may not be able to do so effectively. As a result, our business could be adversely affected. We could also incur significant fines or lose our ability to give the option of paying with credit cards if we fail to follow payment card industry data security standards or fail to limit fraudulent transactions conducted in our marketplace. Negative publicity and sentiment resulting from fraudulent or deceptive conduct by members of our community or the perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers are inadequate could reduce our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and damage our reputation. If sensitive information about members of our community is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are subject to cyber attacks, members of our community may curtail use of our platform, we may be exposed to liability and our reputation could suffer. We collect, transmit and store personal and financial information provided by members of our community, such as names, email addresses, the details of transactions and credit card and other financial information. Some of our third-party service providers, such as identity verification and payment processing providers, also regularly have access to some confidential and sensitive data. In an effort to protect sensitive information, we rely on a variety of security measures, including encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties. However, advances in computer capabilities, increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers and cyber terrorists, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in our failure or inability to adequately protect sensitive information. The preventive measures we take to address these risks are costly and may become more costly in the future. Like all online services, our platform is vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks and other cyber attacks. Any of these incidents could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of our platform, loss of data or unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable or other sensitive information. Cyber attacks could also result in the theft of our intellectual property. As we gain greater public visibility, we may face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber attacks. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries or other developments may result in cyber attacks becoming more sophisticated and more difficult to detect. We and our third-party service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all such cyber attacks. Moreover, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. Security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or employees of our third-party service providers. We and our third-party service providers regularly experience cyber attacks aimed at disrupting our and our third-party service providers services. If we or our third-party service providers experience security breaches that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. Existing Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers may stop listing new items for sale, decrease their purchases or close their accounts altogether. We could also face potential liability, costly remediation efforts and litigation, which may not be adequately covered by insurance. Any of these results could harm our growth prospects, our business and our reputation. 22 Table of Contents Our business depends on network and mobile infrastructure provided by third parties and on our ability to maintain and scale the technology underlying our platform. The reliability of our platform is important to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers. As the number of Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers, volume of traffic, number of transactions and the amount of information shared on our platform grow, our need for additional network capacity and computing power will also grow. The operation of the technology underlying our platform is expensive and complex, and we could experience operational failures. If we fail to accurately predict the rate or timing of the growth of our platform, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to maintain reliability. We also depend on the development and maintenance of the Internet and mobile infrastructure. This includes maintenance of reliable Internet and mobile networks with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, as well as timely development of complementary products. Third-party providers host much of our technology infrastructure. Any disruption in their services, or any failure of our providers to handle the demands of our marketplace could significantly harm our business. We exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to their financial conditions and to problems with the services they provide. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or do not expand our technology infrastructure successfully, then our ability to attract and retain Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers could be adversely affected, which could harm our growth prospects and our business. Our ability to recruit and retain employees is important to our success. We strive to attract, retain and motivate employees, from our office administrators to our management team, who share our dedication to our community and our mission. As we continue to grow, we cannot guarantee we will continue to attract the employees we need to maintain our competitive position. Some of the challenges we face in attracting and retaining employees include: preserving our company culture as we grow; continuing to attract and retain employees who share our values; promoting existing employees into leadership positions to help sustain and grow our culture; hiring employees in multiple locations globally; responding to competitive pressures and changing business conditions in ways that do not divert us from our values; and integrating new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. Our ability to attract, retain and motivate employees, including our management team, is important to our success. In general, our employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees, such as our CEO or CFO, could adversely affect our business. Other companies, including our competitors, may be successful in recruiting and hiring our employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or on competitive terms. Filling engineering, product management and other technical positions in the New York City area is particularly challenging, especially in light of our distinctive technology philosophy and engineering culture. Qualified individuals are limited and in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract, develop and motivate them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, people with suitable technical skills may choose not to join us or to continue to work for us. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our stock awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. If we are not able to maintain our engineering culture and broader company culture, then our ability to recruit and retain employees could suffer and our business would be harmed. The growth of our business may strain our management team and our operational and financial infrastructure. We have experienced rapid growth in our business, such as in headcount, the number of Etsy sellers and the number of countries in which we have Etsy sellers and Etsy buyers and we plan to continue to grow in the future, both in the United States 23 Table of Contents and abroad. For example, our headcount has grown from 251 employees on December 31, 2011 to 819 employees on December 31, 2015 . The growth of our business places significant demands on our management team and pressure to expand our operational and financial infrastructure. As we continue to grow, our operating expenses will increase. If we do not manage our growth effectively, the increases in our operating expenses could outpace any increases in our revenue and our business could be harmed. Continued growth could also pose other challenges, such as the need to develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls and to enhance our reporting systems and procedures. For example, over the past several years we have been implementing and refining an enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system to enhance a variety of important functions such as invoicing, accounts receivable, accounts payable, foreign currency translation, financial consolidation and internal and external financial and management reporting matters. ERP system implementations are complex, long-term projects that involve substantial expenditures. To fully realize the benefits of our ERP system we have made and may continue to make changes to our business and financial processes. Our business may be harmed if our ERP system does not function as expected or does not result in the expected benefits. We may expand our business through acquisitions of other businesses, which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We have acquired a number of other businesses in the past and may acquire additional businesses or technologies in the future. For example, in April 2014 we acquired Jarvis Labs, Inc. (d/b/a Grand St.) and in June 2014 we acquired Incubart SAS (d/b/a A Little Market). Acquisitions may divert managements time and focus from operating our business. Acquisitions also may require us to spend a substantial portion of our available cash, incur debt or other liabilities, amortize expenses related to intangible assets or incur write-offs of goodwill or other assets. In addition, integrating an acquired business or technology is risky. Completed and future acquisitions may result in unforeseen operational difficulties and expenditures associated with: incorporating new businesses and technologies into our infrastructure; consolidating operational and administrative functions; coordinating outreach to our community; maintaining morale and culture and retaining and integrating key employees; maintaining or developing controls, procedures and policies (including effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure