Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating and Financial Metrics for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: active buyer, active seller, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, GMS, GMS ex-U.S. Domestic, mobile GMS, and currency-neutral GMS growth. Etsy has used, and intends to continue using, its investor relations website and the Etsy News Blog (blog.etsy.com/news) to disclose material non-public information and to comply with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, you should monitor our investor relations website and the Etsy News Blog in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to our opportunity; the impact of our Right to Win and other growth strategies, including marketing and product initiatives, investments, and other levers for growth, on our business and operating results, including future gross merchandise sales (GMS) and revenue growth; our ability to attract, engage, and retain buyers and sellers; strategic investments or acquisitions, product and marketing investments, and the potential benefits thereof; our impact goals, strategy, and intended progress; the impact of global macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty and volatility may have on our business, strategy, operating results, key metrics, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows; and uncertainty regarding and changes in overall levels of consumer spending and e-commerce generally. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as aim, anticipate, believe, could, enable, estimate, expect, goal, intend, may, plan, potential, project, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions and derivative forms and/or negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Other factors may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those risks include those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Given these uncertainties, you should read this Annual Report in its entirety and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report and, although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this Annual Report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. In addition, the global economic climate and general market, political, economic, and business conditions may amplify many of these risks. Forward-looking statements represent our beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. The following summary highlights some of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. This summary is not complete and the risks summarized below are not the only risks we face. You should review and consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors which includes a more complete discussion of the risks summarized below as well as a discussion of other risks related to our business and an investment in our common stock. Financial Performance and Operational Risks Related to Our Business While we have experienced rapid growth in our business in the past, our revenue growth rate and financial performance have fluctuated, which makes it difficult to predict the extent of demand for our services or the products sold in our marketplaces. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. Our business, financial performance, and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause significant stock price fluctuations. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We track certain operational metrics with internal systems and tools or manual processes, and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of these metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may adversely affect our business and reputation. If we experience a technology disruption that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about members of our communities or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against software and hardware vulnerabilities, service interruptions, cyber-related events, ransomware, security incidents, or other security breaches, then members of our communities may curtail use of our platforms, we may be exposed to liability or incur additional expenses, and our reputation might suffer. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to third-party services, platforms, and infrastructure that we rely upon to maintain and scale our platform. If the widely adopted mobile, social, search, and/or advertising solutions that we, our sellers, and our buyers rely on as part of our key offering are no longer available or effective, or if access to these major platforms is limited, the use of our marketplaces could decline. Our payments systems have both operational and compliance risks, including in-house execution risk, dependency on third-party providers, and a complex landscape of evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns, inflation, natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, geopolitical events or other macroeconomic conditions, which have in the past and may in the future negatively impact our business and financial performance. Our ability to recruit and retain a diverse group of employees and retain key employees is important to our success. Significant attrition or turnover could impact our ability to grow our business. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Enforcement of our marketplace policies may negatively impact our brands, reputation, and/or our financial performance. If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes, and enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. Continuing to expand our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and the growth of our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and other long-lived tangible and intangible assets, and may incur further impairment charges in the future, which would negatively impact our operating results. We may expand our business through additional acquisitions of other businesses or assets or strategic partnerships and investments, which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We are subject to risks related to our environmental, social, and governance activities and disclosures. We have a significant amount of convertible debt and may incur additional debt in the future. Regulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks Failure to deal effectively with fraud or other illegal activity could harm our business. Compliance with evolving global legal and regulatory requirements and/or available safe harbors, including privacy and data protection laws, tax laws, product liability laws, laws regulating speech and platform monitoring or moderation, antitrust laws, intellectual property and counterfeiting regulations, may materially impact our time, resources, and ability to grow our business. We are regularly involved in litigation, arbitration, and regulatory matters that are expensive and time consuming and that may require changes to our strategy, the features of our marketplaces and/or how our business operates. We may be subject to intellectual property or other claims, which, even if meritless, could be extremely costly to defend, damage our brands, require us to pay significant damages, and limit our ability to use certain technologies or business strategies in the future. Other Risks Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including upon conversion of our convertible notes, could result in additional dilution to our stockholders and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Table of Contents PART I - Financial Information Item 1. Business. Overview Our Mission Etsys mission to Keep Commerce Human is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. We believe consumers are demanding more of the businesses they support and companies that build win-win solutions that are good for people, the planet, and profit will be best positioned to succeed. We are committed to growing sustainably by aligning our mission and business strategy to help create economic impact through entrepreneurship. You can read more about Etsys Impact and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategies beginning on page 19, where we report on metrics aligned with both our self-identified Impact priorities and widely accepted third-party frameworks. About our Company Etsy operates two-sided online marketplaces that connect millions of passionate and creative buyers and sellers around the world. These marketplaces - which collectively create a House of Brands - share our mission, common levers for growth, similar business models, and a strong commitment to use business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people. Our primary marketplace, Etsy.com, is the global destination for unique and creative goods made by independent sellers. The Etsy marketplace connects creative artisans and entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers looking for items that are a joyful expression of their taste and values. By surfacing quality listings at a great value and providing a reliable shopping experience to buyers, we aim to create a virtuous cycle that not only benefits Etsy, but creates economic opportunities for the millions of sellers in our marketplace. Our success is aligned with our sellers; we make money when they do. In addition to bringing them an audience of tens of millions of buyers, we offer a range of features and services designed to help them generate more sales and run their businesses. Similarly, we also make money when we meet our buyers expectations. When they find quality listings, at great value, and have a reliable and dependable experience from discovery to delivery, it fuels a virtuous cycle, benefiting our global community of sellers and buyers, as well as Etsy and our broader stakeholders. In addition to our core Etsy marketplace, our House of Brands consists of Reverb Holdings, Inc. (Reverb), our musical instrument marketplace acquired in 2019, and Depop Limited (Depop), our fashion resale marketplace acquired in 2021. Our marketplaces primarily operate independently, although some of our key operational functions such as finance, legal, and human resources, for example, support all of our marketplaces to some extent. The Reverb and Depop marketplaces are included in all financial and other metrics discussed in this report, unless otherwise noted, from their respective dates of acquisition. On August 10, 2023, Etsy completed the sale of Elo7 Servios de Informtica S.A. (Elo7), a Brazil-based marketplace for handmade and unique items. The results of Elo7 are included in all financial and other metrics discussed in this report, unless otherwise noted, from the date of acquisition on July 2, 2021 until August 10, 2023. Our sellers generated $13.2 billion of Gross Merchandise Sales (GMS) in 2023. Of this, Etsy marketplace GMS was $11.6 billion or 88.0% of the total and the Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 marketplaces generated approximately $942.1 million (7.1% of the total), $599.6 million (4.6% of the total), and $42.1 million (0.3% of the total) of GMS, respectively. We anticipate that the Etsy marketplace will continue to be the primary driver of our overall financial performance for the foreseeable future. Here are a few key statistics about our marketplaces: The Etsy, Reverb, and Depop marketplaces collectively connected a total of 9.0 million active sellers to 96.5 million active buyers as of December 31, 2023. Our top six retail categories on the Etsy marketplace in 2023 were homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, apparel, craft supplies, paper and party supplies, and toys and games. These categories represented approximately $10 billion, or 87% of 2023 GMS. Reverb provides a significant presence in the market for musical instruments, and Depop enhances our apparel offering in the resale space. We are a global company, and 45% of our consolidated 2023 GMS was generated when a seller or buyer, or both, were located outside of the United States. Approximately 68% of our 2023 consolidated GMS came from purchases made on mobile devices, with mobile app being the fastest growing device for the Etsy marketplace. 1 Table of Contents Our Strategy As illustrated below, our strategy is focused around: Building a sustainable competitive advantage for the Etsy marketplace - our Right to Win; Growing the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies and globally; and Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our House of Brands. Building a sustainable competitive advantage - our Right to Win Our Right to Win is centered on four key elements that we believe make Etsy.com a better place to shop and sell and, which, in turn, will bring more buyers, lead to increased frequency and size of purchases, and build long-term loyalty to the Etsy marketplace. We believe that when executed effectively, these elements can create a multiplier effect that will drive future growth. Our sellers unique items: The foundation of Etsy.coms competitive advantage is our sellers millions of unique items. Sellers choose to list their unique items on our marketplace because they believe that we are the best place for them to start and grow a creative business and that we have created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the worlds most talented makers. The unique nature of our sellers items requires that we invest in the other three elements of our strategy: search and discovery, human connections, and a trusted brand in order to deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience. Best-in-class search and discovery: We are focused on continuing to develop a search and discovery experience that unlocks the value of the unique items that can be found on the Etsy marketplace by elevating the highest quality listings. With over 100 million items listed on Etsy.com that do not map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (SKU), our challenge is delivering world-class search and discovery technology that organizes and surfaces the right unique product to the right buyer at the right time in order to drive buyer satisfaction and sales. We use a combination of artificial intelligence, machine learning, large language models, and human curation to help organize, curate, and personalize the search experience, and enable Etsy buyers to more easily browse, filter, and find the items they desire. In addition to helping a buyer find what they are currently looking for, we are also investing in multiple areas to understand buyer tastes and preferences to better anticipate and inspire their next purchase. The power of human connections:Our mission to Keep Commerce Human is a vital part of our strategy. We continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our business. What makes the Etsy marketplace special isnt just the unique items in our marketplace, its also the stories of how those items were brought to life by the hands of real people. Our buyer experience allows Etsy buyers to work with Etsy sellers to personalize or customize items to their exact specifications. We believe that fostering and elevating the quality of these human connections will continue to enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency, thus differentiating Etsy.com from other places you can shop. A trusted brand: We will continue to focus on being a reliable brand that inspires trust along the buyer journey when buyers search, purchase, anticipate, and receive their special items, and all the steps in between. Since Etsy sellers have relatively unknown brands and unbranded items, we aim to ensure that the Etsy brand is recognized and valued for providing an excellent end-to-end experience. There are two key elements to being a trusted brand: standing for something that buyers understand and rely on, and delivering a purchasing experience that feels efficient and safe. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, Etsy sellers, the items available on Etsy, and in the overall Etsy experience. We also need to be reliable for our sellers, offering a suite of compelling services to help them comply with marketplace policies and have peace of mind transacting on Etsy. 2 Table of Contents Growing the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies and globally: We are focused on growing the Etsy marketplace in our six core geographies (as illustrated above). Our six core markets are the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, and France. While we have sellers and buyers around the world, we define our core geographies as locations that meet any of the following criteria: represent our most attractive GMS opportunities, where we currently have a vibrant two-sided marketplace, or where we are strategically investing on the demand and supply side to accelerate domestic growth. At this time, we are focused on bringing our vibrant community of sellers in India potential sales through cross-border, global transactions. Given we are not currently prioritizing developing a domestic marketplace in India, we no longer consider it a core geography as defined above. In addition to our primary focus on growing domestic vibrancy in our core geographies, we also see significant opportunity to further increase cross-border transactions between buyers and sellers. Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our "House of Brands" We have three values-aligned e-commerce marketplaces offering non-commoditized items in our House of Brands: Etsy, Reverb, and Depop. Each of these marketplaces stands for creativity, community, and special and shares common commitments to operate in a way that makes a positive impact on the world. Our goal is that our marketplaces benefit from shared expertise in product, marketing, technology, and customer support, and that the sum of the whole, over time, will equal more than its individual parts. We believe our marketplaces all share key elements central to success, including: analytical frameworks, product experiment and measurement approaches, and operating rhythms that prioritize resource allocation towards the most impactful outcomes; sophisticated search and discovery technology; compelling on-site customer experiences; efficient payment platforms; value-added seller services, such as advertising platforms and effective shipping options; strong brand and performance marketing capabilities; and a commitment to investments that protect the marketplace. Capital Allocation Strategy Etsys overall capital allocation strategy is focused in three areas: core investments in organic growth, which includes investments in our House of Brands; selectively pursuing acquisitions of businesses or technologies that complement our marketplaces or align with our overall growth strategy; and mitigating dilution to our stockholders through stock repurchase programs that have and may continue to be authorized by our Board of Directors. In addition, from time to time we may opportunistically lean in to share repurchasing beyond just offsetting the dilution created by the equity we grant to our employees as a form of compensation, as we did in 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we had fewer shares outstanding than we did as of December 31, 2017, evidence that our stock repurchase activities have enabled us to effectively mitigate the dilution associated with employee equity. How We Make Money We see our business model as a virtuous circle - we connect sellers and buyers, enable their transactions, receive fees for our services, and then reinvest in customer experiences to further grow Etsy and our sellers revenue. We generate revenue primarily from marketplace activities, including transaction (inclusive of offsite advertising), payments processing, and listing fees, as well as from optional seller services, which include on-site advertising and shipping labels. For more information, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Components of Our Results of OperationsRevenue. On April 11, 2022, we increased the Etsy marketplace seller transaction fee. As part of our long-standing principle to provide a fair exchange of value for the fees Etsy earns on marketplace transactions, we reinvested most of the incremental revenue generated from the transaction fee increase into the Etsy marketplace platform. You can read more about our investments in the Primary Business Drivers section below. 3 Table of Contents Marketplace Revenue (Required fees) Transaction Fee (inclusive of Offsite Advertising Fee) Payments Processing Fee Listing Fee Services Revenue (Optional value-added services) On-site Advertising Shipping Labels Other Our House of Brands Marketplaces The Etsy Marketplace Buyers come to the Etsy marketplace for meaningful, one-of-a-kind items handcrafted and curated with passion and expertise by our creative entrepreneurs, often items they cant find anywhere else. Etsy buyer surveys* indicate: *Above data reflects averages from monthly Etsy marketplace buyer surveys completed in 2023. Building buyer consideration by knocking down barriers and focusing on specific purchase occasions: About half of our active buyer base shops on Etsy one purchase day per year, with the other half purchasing an average of approximately five purchase days per year. Buyers too often think of Etsy only for very specific needs or at the end of their shopping journey; or it simply takes too much time and effort to find the best things among our now over 100 million items; or buyers worry about the post-purchase experience. We believe that given our sellers broad array of unique merchandise, Etsy should be able to drive existing and potential buyers to think of us more often for a wider range of purchase occasions, including higher stake ones, to drive long-term growth and market share gains. During 2023, we developed initiatives to drive buyer consideration by highlighting our sellers quality listings, at great value, that we believe our sellers can deliver in a way that is both reliable and dependable. You can read more about these specific initiatives on page 8 in the Product Development section. These initiatives remain part of our Vital Few focus areas, which we currently expect to remain priority areas for investment in 2024. 4 Table of Contents Furthermore, we believe we can do more to raise top of mind awareness for Etsy in key categories and purchase occasions. Our 2023 survey data shows that the majority of consumers in the United States are aware of Etsy and say the brand is relevant to them, and they agree we have inspiring items. Yet many generally dont know when to think of us, or think of us only for limited types of purchases. Further, while our aided brand awareness is approximately 90% among buyers in the United States and United Kingdom and over 80% among buyers in Germany, large gaps still exist in unaided awareness of the Etsy brand for some of our top categories and purchase occasions - such as Home and Living, Gifting, and Style. For example, when recently surveyed by Etsy, only 10% of buyers in the United States name Etsy as a place to shop for Gifts. Our 'Etsy Has It' brand campaign, introduced in 2023, is an important component of our focus on building buyer consideration given its direct messaging and call-to-action, along with a significant amount of on-site product work such as our new Wedding, Baby, and Gift registries, new Home and Living category pages, and more. We are confident that while it will take time to build this type of brand association, we can ultimately do much more to help buyers and potential buyers better understand the when and why of Etsy. We believe the Etsy marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including: A brand that stands for Conscious Shopping: In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy.com is a marketplace where creativity lives and thrives because its powered by people. We help our community of sellers turn their ideas into successful businesses. Our platform connects them with millions of buyers looking for an alternativesomething special that expresses their taste and values, providing a destination for conscious shopping that supports small business. Large assortment of unique and creative goods: Etsy boasts a large assortment of handmade, customized, personalized, vintage, and craft supply products from all over the world. As of December 31, 2023, there were over 100 million items listed on the Etsy marketplace, and approximately 30% of our 2023 GMS was from custom or made-to-order merchandise. Global reach: Our platform makes it easy for Etsy buyers and sellers to interact across borders even if they do not speak the same language and wish to transact in different currencies. We use innovative machine translation technology to translate listings, reviews, Etsy Ads, and conversations between buyers and sellers. We invest in localization, particularly within our core non-U.S. markets, to create a more localized experience such as browse features and local payment methods, which has resulted in more sellers selling to buyers within their own country and across borders. Organic traffic base: The unique nature of our sellers inventory and power of our brand have enabled us to organically build a loyal, global base of Etsy buyers on the platform. In 2023, the percentage of our GMS attributed to performance marketing (paid GMS) was 20%, meaning that the vast majority of our GMS comes to us organically through awareness of our brand, as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications. Human connection between buyers and sellers: As of December 31, 2023, 92.0 million buyers and 7.0 million sellers were active on the Etsy marketplace. We emphasize that the items listed for sale on the Etsy marketplace are brought to life by real people and that buyers can connect directly with sellers in order to ask questions and personalize or customize items to their specifications. Connected experience across all devices: We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience regardless of the device used. Our desktop and mobile web experiences, as well as our Etsy mobile app for Etsy buyers (Buy on Etsy) include search and discovery, curation, personalization, augmented reality, and social shopping features. For the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately 67% of Etsy.com GMS was generated on a mobile device. We have made product investments designed to drive buyers to our app, which is beneficial to our conversion rate, as our mobile app has the highest conversion rate among platforms. In addition, we offer similar desktop, mobile web, and mobile app experiences to help sellers manage their shops and successfully serve buyers on Etsy. High Level Performance Recap: Beginning in 2020 and continuing through 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic and other global macroeconomic factors drove a significant shift to online purchasing in many retail categories. During this period, the Etsy marketplace experienced significant growth - more than doubling our GMS from 2019 through 2021. We believe this growth can be attributed to the diversity of the merchandise on Etsy, the differentiation of our brand and shopping experience as explained above, as well as our capital light business model, among other factors. As the COVID-19 pandemic eased beginning in February 2022, consumer mobility significantly increased, resulting in very strong reopening headwinds in 2022. While reopening headwinds normalized in 2023, macroeconomic headwinds included significant pressure 5 Table of Contents on consumer discretionary product spending, high inflation, elevated interest and mortgage rates, splurges on experiential spending, declining consumer savings balances, and a highly promotional and competitive retail environment. These challenges were further magnified for our lower household income buyers, where GMS declined on a year-over-year basis1. While Etsy was one of the few e-commerce companies to maintain our pandemic gains, we did not grow GMS in 2023 as many other e-commerce peers did (according to Euromonitor International Ltd; Retail 2024 edition, accessed February 5th, 2024, global e-commerce revenue growth in our core markets increased 7% year-over-year in 2023, while Etsy marketplace GMS declined nearly 2% over the same period). We believe the following factors were the primary reason for our underperformance in 2023: difficult year-over-year comparisons for Etsy, the fact that we are not known for or do not sell certain essentials such as groceries, staples, and consumer electronics, pressure on several of our largest categories, and how our sellers price their items, which often does not account for inflation. Despite the above factors, the Etsy marketplace continued to maintain the vast majority of gains achieved during the pandemic (with 2023 GMS equal to 98% of 2022 GMS and up 145% from 2019). We believe our ability to largely maintain our pandemic gains is a result of our significant investments in improving the customer experience and deepening our engagement with buyers. Despite soft GMS trends over the past two years, we continued to grow our revenue through changes to our seller fees, key investments to expand coverage of our payments platform, growth in international markets where transactions yield higher payments fees, technology advancements in our Etsy Ads product line that enabled us to utilize more of our sellers advertising budgets, and other initiatives. Restructuring Plan announced late 2023: On December 12, 2023, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan designed to increase Etsys operational efficiencies, reduce operating costs, and better align Etsys workforce and cost structure with current business needs, top strategic priorities, and key growth opportunities (collectively, the Restructuring Plan). See Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewRestructuring Plan. The Reverb Marketplace Reverb, headquartered in Chicago, is a two-sided marketplace launched in 2013 on the principle that buying and selling musical instruments should be easy. Reverb connects buyers and sellers of new, outlet, used, and vintage music gear from all over the world, uniting music makers with the gear that inspires them. As of December 31, 2023, our Reverb marketplace had 845 thousand active buyers and 229 thousand active sellers. Reverbs buyers and sellers range from beginners looking for their first instruments to professional musicians expanding their gear collections, local music stores that use Reverb to do more business online, and the largest music retailers in the world that use Reverb to reach an even larger audience. Based upon third party data and our own estimates, we believe that, since its founding, Reverb has become the third largest seller of musical instruments in the United States. Reverb has a vibrant and engaged community. For example, in 2023, approximately 56% of Reverbs active sellers also bought on Reverb, and those that bought and sold gear spent nearly three times more than those that bought gear on Reverb but did not sell on Reverb. Nearly 80% of Reverbs GMS is from the sale of used instruments, and, similar to the Etsy marketplace, approximately 80% of traffic is unpaid, evidencing the strength of the Reverb brand. Over 40% of Reverbs GMS comes from its mobile app. Reverbs unique characteristics include the depth and breadth of its sellers inventory, its range of sellers (including retailers, manufacturers, and individual sellers distributed across the globe), one of the largest musical instrument databases with historical pricing data in the world, and a large and passionate community of musicians and music gear lovers. In 2023, Reverb invested in optimizing its conversion rate, delivering a more customized experience, and highlighting affordable used and outlet gear. High Level Performance Recap: In 2023, Reverbs GMS was flat to 2022, while macroeconomic factors weighed on consumer discretionary spending. Despite these headwinds, Reverb, similar to Etsy, continued to maintain the vast majority of its 2020 and 2021 GMS gains. Given the continued pressure on GMS, Reverb completed an approximately 13% reduction in force in October 2023 designed to gain operational efficiencies and enable critical growth investments into 2024 and beyond. Revenue increased on a year-over-year basis in 2023 largely due to higher payments revenue. Reverbs 2023 investments included improvements to the buyer and seller experiences, including enhanced search capabilities such as new category filters and attributes to help buyers find the perfect piece of gear. Reverb also made checkout easier and faster, focused on deals and affordability, and introduced additional payment and shipping options. In marketing, Reverb focused on optimizing its performance marketing spend to continue to drive efficiencies, expanded into mid-funnel video advertising, and continued to invest in content for YouTube and select social channels to drive brand awareness. The Depop Marketplace Depop, headquartered in London, is on a mission to Make Fashion Circular. Since its founding in 2011, Depop has been a people-powered fashion marketplace where anyone can buy, sell, explore, and discover incredible secondhand fashion. Depop had approximately 35 million registered users, 3.6 million active buyers, and 1.8 million active sellers at December 31, 2023, up from approximately 1.7 million as of December 31, 2022. Commencing with this Annual Report, Depops active seller count has been adjusted 1 Household income (HHI) estimated by utilizing United States Census data of average income by zip code. 6 Table of Contents to exclude certain disqualified sellers, consistent with the Etsy marketplaces active seller definition. For comparative purposes, the 2022 Depop active seller count is also provided using this new methodology. Approximately 56% of Depop sellers who made a sale in 2023 also made at least one purchase in 2023, which we believe shows the strong engagement of Depops user base. Nearly 95% of Depops GMS is in the apparel category. Depop is a place for anyone to discover and share their style by selling items directly from their closets and buying secondhand garments from others whose style they admire. Depops circular ecosystem extends the life of millions of garments every year, providing a more sustainable way to enjoy fashion. We believe the growth opportunity for Depop is meaningful due to its: 1) differentiated position in the fast-growing resale space; 2) passionate and highly engaged community of buyers and sellers that advocate for the brand; 3) strong affinity with the Generation Z (Gen Z) and Millennial consumer demographics, who are adopting resale shopping faster than other demographics; and 4) significant market share opportunity in the United States and United Kingdom where Depop has meaningful brand awareness. High Level Performance Recap: After two years of challenging macroeconomic conditions, Depops performance significantly improved in 2023. In particular, we believe that Depops inventory of low-cost, fashionable, resold merchandise was highly relevant to a value conscious consumer. The marketplace returned to healthy year-over-year GMS growth in 2023, and delivered meaningful revenue growth, in part, through take rate expansion. In particular, Depops focus on expanding share in the very large resale market in the United States bore fruit, with double digit U.S. GMS growth on a year-over-year basis. Etsy believes Depop is a highly-relevant and authentic re-commerce brand that is still early in its growth lifecycle and plans to continue to invest accordingly. In addition to a better macroeconomic backdrop for its type of goods, we believe that a significant part of Depops improved performance in 2023 is the result of strategies put in place by Kruti Patel Goyal, Etsys former Chief Product Officer, who became Depops Chief Executive Officer in September of 2022. New leadership has focused on building momentum in the business, identifying the fewest, most impactful things to re-accelerate growth and improve operational efficiency in service of the Depop community. Depop has improved the buyer experience by increasing product development velocity by over 70% from 2022 to 2023, strengthening its machine learning capabilities, enhancing search relevance and item recommendations through improved ranking and personalization, scaling performance marketing channels such as product listing ads (PLA), and expanding community-driven marketing initiatives. In addition, Depop launched or expanded key GMS and revenue driving initiatives, such as Make an Offer, Depop Payments, Buy Now Pay Later, and Boosted Listings. Primary Business Drivers We leverage technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Among other things, we invest in our technology infrastructure, product development, marketing, trust and safety, member support and helping sellers grow as we strive to continuously improve our marketplaces for our buyers and sellers. While the discussion below focuses on the primary drivers of the Etsy marketplace, there are similar business drivers at each of our marketplaces. Technology Infrastructure Our engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of sellers and buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. This team writes, deploys, and operates the software and services that enable us to run our business, including the web and mobile products we deploy externally and internally, and maintains our cloud environment and local office networks, and more. Etsy also makes significant investments in areas such as foundational infrastructure, our payments platform, cyber security, internal information technology, data enablement, and system architecture. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform, personalize search and discovery, improve our search experience, and test features on our website. We apply a combination of proprietary and non-proprietary machine learning (ML) algorithms, large language models (LLM), and neural networks, as well as human curation to personalize the search and discovery experiences and enable buyers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. These search engine technologies include: 1) text based, our word based search; 2) relational search engines such as our XWalk, which understand interactions between buyers, listings, and shops; and 3) neural information retrieval, which interprets what a buyer means even if they dont know how to describe the item. In 2023, we tested new Generative AI enabled features in order to develop new ways to move search functionality from keywords to conversations. Our use of these technologies can also help sellers and buyers connect across the platform, even if they dont speak the same language. We translate listings within our Etsy marketplace, which we believe significantly increases the items available to non-English speaking Etsy buyers and gives Etsy sellers access to a truly global audience. 7 Table of Contents We expect to continue to invest in innovative ways to harness the power of advanced ML technologies to improve customer experiences across our platform. For example, we see opportunities across these areas, and more: In addition, we maintain an agile technology infrastructure, leveraging our operations in Google Cloud to dynamically flex computing power in sync with traffic. This infrastructure aids operational efficiencies, allowing a greater portion of our engineers to spend time working on GMS driving initiatives and less time on infrastructure activities. In 2023, we began to invest in initiatives to democratize ML across the Etsy platform, with the goal to streamline and automate ML modeling in order to allow more Etsy engineers to deploy these models in significantly less time. During the year, we deployed third-party chat bot technologies that we expect will enhance our engineering teams ability to write code, as well as improve other work streams across our platform. Our other marketplaces Reverb and Depop also operate their marketplaces in the cloud and make similar technical development investments with Amazon Web Services (AWS). In 2023, both Reverb and Depop leveraged ML capabilities across their platforms to improve efficiencies and enhance their site experiences. Product Development Etsys product development and engineering organization is built around the core belief that we can create connections between our sellers and buyers that are personal and fundamentally different from other platforms where you can shop or sell. We believe we have a novel approach to product development, which we call our Product Development Culture, an evolving set of key principles, mindsets, and habits that guide how our teams work, experiment, and interact as we develop great experiences for our customers and business. Our teams are organized around a collection of initiatives that support a common strategy aligned with our Right to Win, with cross-functional teams focused on delivering a key customer outcome that we measure by a set of objectives and key results, all meant to solve key customer friction points. Product and engineering teams work across all areas that matter to our buyers and sellers - the core buyer and seller experience, search and ads, payments, fulfillment, member support, and more. Our approach to solving customer challenges includes customer and market research and analysis, data analysis, A/B and multivariate experimentation, prototyping and testing, quality assurance, and go-to-market strategies. We continue to advance our Right to Win strategy, our playbook designed to ensure Etsy is the first stop for consumers who want to shop their tastes and values, as well as differentiating our value proposition in a competitive environment. With many millions of items listed on Etsy.com, and an average buyer search result yielding over 1,000 listings today, we believe that the application of personalization and curation can help buyers have a less overwhelming and more joyful shopping experience. As mentioned above, in 2023, we targeted investments focused on building buyer consideration by highlighting quality listings, at great value, that we believe our sellers can deliver in a way that is both reliable and dependable, as well as raising top of mind awareness in Etsys key categories and purchase occasions. For example, we made meaningful progress on elevating the best of Etsy in our search results, including our Curation at Scale efforts to combine human curation with ML models. Our number of product development launches in 2023 increased by approximately 30% compared to 2022. Etsy also shares aspects of its product development culture and strategies with our other marketplaces. In 2023, Reverb and Depop increased their focus on experimentation, search and discovery, and fulfillment, with the aim to improve the customer experience and drive incremental GMS. For example, Reverb delivered its best year ever in terms of GMS growth driven by product wins; and Depop significantly increased its product development velocity in 2023, delivering a number of meaningful product wins. 8 Table of Contents Marketing We believe that our approach to investments in marketing are somewhat different from some other players in e-commerce, and we continue to evolve and refine these activities as a core component of our business. Weve evolved our marketing strategy to reinforce our core brand promise in the minds of Etsy buyers, and strengthened our capabilities by employing a full-funnel marketing approach, optimizing our investments in each area of the funnel. Our two primary types of marketing investments, performance and brand - where we spent approximately $451 million and $162 million, respectively on a consolidated basis in 2023 - are discussed below. In 2023, the percentage of GMS attributed to performance marketing (paid GMS) was 20%, meaning that the vast majority of our GMS comes to us organically through awareness of our brand. Performance marketing Our investments in performance marketing, which we define as paid media spend related to the digital acquisition and re-engagement of buyers, adjusts according to demand and scale based on incremental return. We do not set fixed budgets for our marketing team. Our investment philosophy for performance marketing is to invest until the marginal return on investment (ROI) on the next dollar spent is below our target minimum ROI. Increases in buyer lifetime value (LTV), driven by visits, conversion rate, incremental revenue, and frequency, shift the return curve higher, enabling us to spend more in marketing. The vast majority of return comes in-period, although some does fall into subsequent quarters. Our performance marketing spend naturally adjusts with demand, which we believe has worked well through changing demand and pricing for third-party marketing channels as it allows us to dynamically lean into more efficient opportunities. We continue to test the effectiveness of our performance marketing and expand into new channels and geographies. For example, in 2023 we added the Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Portugal, Romania, and Slovakia to the countries where we invest in performance marketing. Offsite Ads.Offsite Ads is an innovative advertising program for Etsy marketplace sellers, where Etsy pays the upfront costs to promote Etsy sellers listings on multiple internet platforms and takes a success fee when a sale is made. The program works as follows: when a shopper clicks on an offsite ad featuring a sellers listing and purchases from the sellers shop within 30 days of that click, the seller pays Etsy an additional transaction fee on that sale. We believe our Offsite Ads program is a win-win for Etsy and our sellers since: 1) the seller only pays a transaction fee when a sale is made; and 2) the additional fee expands Etsys LTV, as outlined above, enabling us to spend deeper for performance marketing to drive more visits to our marketplace. In 2023, revenue from the Offsite Ads program offset approximately 35% of the Etsy marketplaces performance marketing spend. Other performance marketing.Our performance marketing strategy also includes mid funnel advertising, such as on social media channels and through corporate marketing partnerships which target specific buyer demographics. We enhanced the Etsy marketplaces social marketing strategy in 2023 to focus on our sellers merchandise in a specific category or for a specific purchase occasion, leading to improved ROI, a meaningful increase in visits, and increased buyer spending resulting from these channels. For example, we leveraged our new Home and Living category page to target relevant buyers shopping a specific category or purchase occasion in order to re-engage with our existing and lapsed buyers, as well as attract new buyers. We also focused on our influencer program through which influencers, buyers, and sellers are incentivized to develop Etsy content to drive engagement with existing buyers and introduce new buyers to Etsy. As part of the Etsy marketplaces focus on highlighting great value, we held three site-wide promotional events in 2023 funded by a small allocation of Etsys marketing dollars, which we continued to test as a way to drive buyer engagement. Brand marketing Since 2018, Etsy has leaned more heavily into upper funnel brand marketing strategies through TV and digital video to create a flywheel designed to elevate the effectiveness of our other marketing channels. Etsy regularly surveys buyers on brand funnel metrics such as awareness and loyalty, and, in 2022, we refreshed the questions asked in these surveys to better track the results of our investments. United States consumer surveys indicate that, since the fourth quarter of 2018, prompted awareness for the Etsy marketplace is up more than 10%, purchase intent grew well over 100%, and visit intent increased nearly 100%. We are also seeing great movement in our brand funnel metrics in the United Kingdom and Germany. Since the fourth quarter of 2020, our prompted awareness in the United Kingdom is up nearly 15% and purchase intent is up approximately 30%. During the same period in Germany, prompted awareness and purchase intent both increased over 100%. Early indications also suggest that our Etsy Has It brand campaign, which includes direct messaging and call-to-action in Gifting, Home and Living, and Style, may have contributed to increased brand association for these categories and purchase occasions in 2023. We began testing TV advertising in Austria and Switzerland in the third quarter of 2023, complementing the favorable GMS growth trends in these markets. Given these healthy performance metrics, as well as our validation of performance through multiple third-party methodologies, we anticipate that upper funnel brand marketing strategies will continue to be a growing part of our marketing investment mix over time. We also strive to reinforce our brand image globally through earned media that features Etsy as a trend-setter and global destination for conscious shopping that supports small business. 9 Table of Contents Select other marketing Our marketing strategy includes sophisticated Customer Relationship Management (CRM) tools that enable us to segment and target our buyers for engagement on and off Etsy. We believe our CRM and mobile app push notifications are efficient tools to drive engagement with our active and lapsed buyers, as well as meaningful drivers of our strong buyer reactivation levels. We also elevated Etsy-funded and seller funded promotional events throughout 2023 to highlight our sellers quality listings at great value. Our subsidiaries also enhanced their marketing strategies in 2023. For example, Reverb and Depop both shifted and scaled their paid marketing spend to deliver solid results and a positive ROI. Reverb expanded its If its gear, its here campaign that emphasized the breadth of unique inventory and great deals available on Reverb. In addition to Depops meaningful improvement to paid marketing, it launched its YouTube campaign in the United States and its I got it on Depop marketing campaign in the United Kingdom in 2023, both of which drove improved brand awareness. Trust & Safety The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among people in our community are cornerstones of our business. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency among our members by clearly outlining the rights and responsibilities of sellers and buyers participating on our platform. On Etsy.com we strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that they are purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain standards, which starts with our policies. Fundamentally, we require that goods listed on Etsy be handmade (whether by the seller alone or with the help of a production partner), vintage, or craft supplies. Etsy is an unjuried marketplace, meaning sellers run their own shops, create, sell, and ship their own products, and are responsible for complying with our robust Seller Policy. Items on Etsy do not have barcodes or SKUs, and Etsy does not ever touch or possess the items for sale on the Etsy marketplace. The unique nature of Etsy sellers product inventory, combined with the constantly evolving nature of policy interpretation, necessitates expert, human involvement in content moderation, which we combine with the power of ML and other cutting-edge technology. Our teams regularly re-evaluate content on Etsy.com in the context of emerging trends to determine whether such content violates our House Rules or terms of use, including our Prohibited Items policy. Etsy.com has a zero tolerance approach for items that promote, support, or glorify hate or violence or that perpetuate the spread of harmful misinformation. Beyond prohibited content detection and removal, we have grounded our content moderation program and product roadmap in ensuring that buyers can trust their experience and have the information they need to make informed purchase decisions, and that sellers can understand what is required of them, including whether their listing is permitted under our policies. We remain committed to ensuring that any member can easily alert Etsy about potential violations of our policies. We have also taken steps to ensure that Etsy sellers are positioned for success by making our policies easy to understand, refining our violation notification process, and providing resources to help sellers when they have compliance questions. As the Etsy marketplace has experienced significant growth since 2019, we have increased our investments and resources dedicated to trust and safety. This includes scaling our teams and investing in new tools and advanced technologies to enable these teams to more effectively and efficiently do their jobs. This included growing our content moderation team, expanding our handmade and counterfeit team dedicated to fighting counterfeits and violations of our Handmade Policy, and creating a dedicated trust and safety ML engineering team. In 2023, we meaningfully expanded proactive listing review and enforcement of our Handmade Policy to protect the integrity of our marketplace. For example, we removed approximately 140% more listings for violations of our Handmade Policy than in 2022, and estimate we have reduced how often buyers are seeing merchandise that appears to violate our listing guidelines by more than half since the first half of 2023. In order to protect our brand and our sellers unique items, we plan to expand proactive moderation capabilities while providing sellers with new tools to accurately describe their items and stay policy-adherent. We publish an annual Transparency Report, which details our policy enforcement for the year on Intellectual Property, Prohibited Items, and Requests for Member Information policies. We have shared this report on our corporate website annually since 2015 and believe that publicly reporting on our enforcement efforts builds trust in our marketplace and community. Our subsidiaries Reverb and Depop also care about running trustworthy marketplaces, and maintain robust community guidelines and prohibited items policies. In 2023, there was significant sharing of best-practices and information on these important items across our House of Brands. For example, Reverb expanded and restructured its trust and safety team to enhance its user verification process; and Depop stepped up investments in a new third-party content moderation tool to streamline this process, improving its average issue handling time and enhancing the user experience. You can read more about our other marketplaces respective policies and procedures by visiting each of their marketplace websites. 10 Table of Contents Member Support As the Etsy marketplace has scaled, so have our investments in member support. As the primary touch point for our vibrant community of buyers and sellers, our Member Services team serves as both the voice of the Etsy brand and an important advocate for our community. When an issue arises, or a user has a question, we want to ensure they get support quickly and easily. In 2023 we increased buyer and seller support through enhanced experiences, such as use of self-service support functions in chat, expanded use of live chat, enhancing our seller appeals process, and clarifying our Etsy Purchase Protection program. Our subsidiaries also require similar member support activities. For example, Reverb revised its Buyer Protection program with the aim to provide an easy and seamless process when an item is not delivered as described; and Depop continued to improve Member Support efficiencies, including enhancements to its Dispute Resolution Center. Helping Sellers Grow We aim to be the easiest, most effective, and highest-value online selling platform for sellers with the skill and will to thrive. In addition to our Offsite Ads program and paid services which include Etsy Ads, our on-site advertising platform for sellers, and our shipping labels product, we provide a wide range of insights, programs, and educational resources to give Etsy marketplace sellers the support and power they need to manage and grow their businesses. We believe combining these efforts with access to a global audience of buyers creates a heightened desire for our sellers to keep transacting with buyers on Etsy. Below are some examples of our efforts: We continued to expand our successful Star Seller program, with the number of sellers with a badge up approximately 13% year-over-year as of December 31, 2023. In 2023, we introduced a Star Seller filter in our search, which led to increased purchase frequency and buyer spend, as we continue to elevate high quality listings and excellent customer service on Etsy. The Etsy Purchase Protection program, designed to help buyers feel more confident making a purchase and allow sellers to keep their earnings on qualifying orders up to $250 when an item does not match the description, arrives late or damaged, or never arrives, continues to provide support for our sellers when a transaction goes wrong through no fault of their own. In 2023, we launched the Etsy Share & Save program, a way for sellers to save on Etsy fees for sales they directly drive to their Etsy shop from their own channels. We began developing initiatives to help our sellers set sustainable pricing strategies, and published a new Pricing Guide, which provides practical tips and guidance on factors to consider in doing so. We started testing our Seller Growth Tips within Shop Manager, providing sellers personalized checklists such as tips for how to stand out in search results, build buyer trust, and other helpful resources. We launched a Make an Offer (MAO) feature to all U.S. sellers and sellers listing items in U.S. dollars, allowing sellers to drive sales through direct price negotiation with their buyers. We offer an array of Blog posts, video tutorials, the Etsy Seller Handbook (available on Etsy.com), Etsy.com online forums, and insights from our support teams designed to help sellers grow. In May 2023, we held our second global Etsy Up seller event. This interactive online experience included access to trends, services, and actionable takeaways to help grow our sellers shops. This virtual event generated a record number of seller registrations and garnered over 1.6 million views across all content as of December 31, 2023. Our subsidiaries also offer many features and services for their seller communities, including tips and tools for success, community events, and shipping carrier relationships and support. For example, Reverb increased visibility of its Great Value badge in the listing process, making it easier for sellers to see when their listing is set at competitive prices, and leveraged its seller Price Guide and offer negotiation tools. Depop launched a Sold Item Index as part of its listing process that provides sellers real-time information on market prices for similar items. 11 Table of Contents The Etsy Marketplace: Our Passionate and Engaged Community Over the past few years, Etsys investments in our growth strategy and business drivers, as well as external factors that drove dramatic changes to the way people engage with e-commerce marketplaces in general and with the Etsy marketplace in particular, have led to significant changes in engagement and retention of our seller and buyer communities. This section outlines characteristics of the Etsy marketplace seller and buyer cohorts, which we believe is a useful barometer to track our performance over time. Etsy Sellers We believe that our 7.0 million active sellers are the backbone of Etsys business and that what matters most to them is our community of approximately 92.0 million buyers. We serve creative artisans and entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them excellent value compared with other channels they may have to sell their products, and a cohesive suite of powerful tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. In 2023, active sellers, those who sold an item or incurred a bill charge in the last 12 months, grew 29% compared to 2022 and 176% compared to 2019, which we believe evidences that Etsy continues to be a great place for creative entrepreneurs to start a business. Seller Census: Etsy publishes further information about our sellers gleaned from a third-party survey. You can find results from the most recent survey on page 13 of our 2022 Annual Report. We currently plan to update this census biennially. Etsy New Seller GMS Retention NEW SELLER GMS RETENTION (%) NEW SELLER GMS RETENTION ($) Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 New Sellers $481M $639M $832M $1.2B 2018 New Sellers $553M $872M $1.4B $1.2B 2019 New Sellers $832M $1.5B $1.4B $1.1B 2020 New Sellers $2.9B $2.6B $2.0B 2021 New Sellers $1.9B $1.8B 2022 New Sellers $1.5B Note Etsy new seller GMS retention in Year 1 in the above table represents 100%. The above tables show two different views of the same data. Each new seller cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all sellers that created and were billed for their first listing on Etsy.com in the designated year - the table on the left shows retention as a percentage of Year 1 GMS and the one on the right shows retention in dollars. The GMS for each seller is calculated from the date of their first listing fee such that Year 1 represents the GMS received by all sellers in the cohort within 365 days of their first listing fee. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2022 new seller cohort, as sellers who incurred their first listing fee later in 2022 have not yet had two years to age. These tables show that all seller cohorts initially inflected positively in terms of GMS value sold on the Etsy marketplace during the pandemic, and that seller cohorts are retaining a significant amount of the gains achieved. 12 Table of Contents Etsy Buyers During the pandemic years, Etsy pulled forward a significant amount of new buyer acquisition in a way that we believe would have, under normal course, taken us many more years to acquire. We believe our efforts to engage new, lapsed, and existing buyers, as well as drive frequency, have helped support the health of our buyer cohorts overall despite stiff reopening headwinds and challenging macroeconomic conditions. The performance we have seen in our buyer cohorts is encouraging as trends remain healthy relative to pre-pandemic levels despite some degradation seen from pandemic period metrics. Active Buyers The number of active buyers on the Etsy marketplace increased 3% in 2023 compared with 2022, setting a new all-time high of 92 million. Our retention of active buyers in 2023 improved from the prior year and remained above pre-pandemic levels. Our number of active buyers - those buyers who have made a purchase within the trailing twelve months - increased over 100% from 2019, as shown in the chart to the left. This strength was largely driven by strong growth in reactivation of lapsed buyers, high new buyer acquisition levels, as well as healthy retention of active buyers. GMS Per Active Buyer GMS per Active Buyer: We believe that a useful way to track the success of our efforts to drive buyer retention, frequency, and purchases is to look at GMS per active buyer on a trailing twelve-month basis. After increasing rapidly during the pandemic years, our GMS per active buyer softened during the reopening and more recently as we saw pressures on consumer discretionary spending. Yet, GMS per buyer remains 22% higher than 2019, as shown in the chart. GMS per buyer declined 4% from 2022 to 2023 due to: 1) a greater mix of non-U.S. buyers, who generally have a lower GMS per active buyer than buyers in our more mature United States market; 2) a greater mix of reactivated buyers in the United States, who generally spend less than our more mature existing buyers but more than new buyers; and 3) the Etsy marketplaces significant exposure to categories that were under pressure, such as Home and Living and Craft Supplies (which made up over 40% of our 2023 GMS). We are encouraged to see GMS per active buyer stabilize throughout 2023 and believe that we have meaningful opportunities to re-accelerate this metric over time as we continue to focus on increasing buyer frequency and growing our average order value, which we believe is a relatively untapped lever. 13 Table of Contents New Buyers: We believe that we have a significant opportunity to attract those who have never shopped on Etsy.com before. Since a buyer is separately identified by a unique e-mail address, a buyer is considered new if they use a unique e-mail address that has never been used for a purchase on the Etsy marketplace. During 2023, we had over 27 million new Etsy.com buyers, down 7% compared to 2022. GMS for Etsy marketplace new buyers was down 8% year-over-year and represented approximately 11% of overall Etsy marketplace GMS in 2023. While new buyers declined on a year-over-year basis, new buyer acquisition was up over 40% from 2019 as shown in the chart on the left. We believe we have significant opportunities to continue to attract new buyers to the Etsy marketplace, both in the United States and internationally. Etsy New Buyer GMS Retention New Buyer Cohort GMS Retention (%) New Buyer Cohort GMS Retention ($) Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2017 New Buyers $1.1B $413M $555M $868M 2018 New Buyers $1.3B $603M $930M $911M 2019 New Buyers $1.6B $978M $949M $848M 2020 New Buyers $3.6B $1.6B $1.4B 2021 New Buyers $3.2B $1.1B 2022 New Buyers $2.8B Note Etsy new buyer GMS retention in Year 1 in the above table represents 100%. These views of buyer retention focus on the retained GMS, which we believe is the best way to evaluate Etsy buyer behavior over a multi-year period. The above tables show the same data in two different views. Each new buyer cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all buyers who made their first purchase on Etsy in the designated year - the table on the left shows retention as a percentage of Year 1 GMS and the one on the right shows it in dollars. Each buyers GMS is calculated from the date of their first purchase such that Year 1 represents the GMS of all purchases by buyers in the cohort within 365 days of their first purchase. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2022 new buyer cohort, as buyers who bought later in 2022 have not had two years to age. Additionally, note that across our cohorts, GMS retention levels in years that include 2020 and 2021 were impacted by the pandemic. These tables highlight that while all buyer cohorts initially inflected positively in terms of GMS value purchased on the Etsy marketplace during the pandemic, we have given back some of these gains during the strong reopening headwinds and challenging macroeconomic climate for consumer discretionary companies that have followed the pandemic. Overall, we believe the 2021 new buyer cohort GMS retention level is healthy, and notably, largely similar to the 2017 (pre-pandemic) Year 2 GMS retention. 14 Table of Contents Reactivated Buyers Average Purchase Days per Repeat Buyer Reactivated Buyers: Because buyers often lapse in their Etsy.com purchases (not making a purchase in a year or more), the activities outlined above in our strategy, product, and marketing sections are intended in part to reduce the number of buyers that lapse and also to re-engage lapsed buyers to get them to come back. The dramatic increase in active buyers during the pandemic resulted in more lapsed buyers in recent periods than in pre-pandemic periods, providing Etsy with opportunity to reactivate a very large pool of recently lapsed buyers. As a result of our increased focus on this opportunity, we reactivated 17% more lapsed buyers in 2023 on a year-over-year basis, with the majority located in the United States. Reactivated buyers have an approximately 40% higher LTV than new buyers in their first year back on the Etsy marketplace platform, so we expect to continue to prioritize activities to reengage lapsed buyers. Repeat Buyers: Repeat Etsy buyers represent shoppers who made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. In the chart on the left, you can see an increase in purchase days during the pandemic period, followed by less frequent purchase days as the world reopened and we faced macroeconomic headwinds over the past two years. We believe this metric has held up very well: increasing from 4.6 purchase days per year in 2019 to 5.0 purchase days per year in 2023. In 2023, approximately 48% of our active buyers were repeat buyers, in line with 2022 and above the approximately 41% level in 2019. Looking forward, we believe that we have significant opportunity to continue to drive frequency by building buyer consideration through our investments in highlighting Etsys high quality listings, at great value, that we believe our sellers can deliver in a way that is both reliable and dependable. 15 Table of Contents Active Buyers by Purchase Type Summary of Active Buyers by Purchase Type: This chart represents a summary of active buyer behavior according to the number of days they purchase and the amount they spend on Etsy during a twelve-month period. Habitual buyers are defined as those who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. This cohort comprised 8% of our active buyers and represented approximately 42% of our 2023 GMS. The number of habitual buyers declined 4% year-over-year in 2023 as we encountered the headwinds outlined above. The vast majority of the year-over-year decline in habitual buyers can be attributed to buyers moving into the repeat buyer category, as you can see in the chart on the left. In fact, we saw a 4% year-over-year increase in repeat buyers in 2023. Looking at our performance with this important buyer cohort on a longer timeframe you can see that the number of habitual buyers in 2023 grew 184% from 2019 levels, when they represented just 5% of active buyers. Our Opportunity The last several years have been volatile for e-commerce - with periods of very strong growth as well as declines - as global economies were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, supply chain imbalances, geopolitical tensions, high levels of inflation, pressures on consumer discretionary spending, and more. That said, we believe the e-commerce industry continues to have significant tailwinds in terms of its long-term growth opportunity. According to the previously mentioned Euromonitor report, global e-commerce revenue in our core markets is estimated to grow by a compounded annual growth rate of 8% through 2027. Etsy Marketplace Opportunity Looking forward, we continue to believe that Etsy has the opportunity to gain share within e-commerce and the broader retail marketplace. We believe that the nature of commerce is continuing to evolve: over the past few years, more people chose to purchase goods online and many consumers looked for special items as an alternative to mass produced goods. In particular, we believe that Etsy has something unique to offer global consumers, given that our sellers merchandise is made with creativity and craftsmanship, and often personalized - unlike mass manufactured branded goods, which are ubiquitously available in many locations, online, and off. We expect that our future success hinges on our ability to highlight our differentiation to global consumers - particularly to help a buyer better understand when to think of Etsy, as well as the quality of what they are buying and who they are buying from when purchasing on Etsy - harnessing the power of our mission to Keep Commerce Human. By focusing on the growth strategies outlined in the above sections, our goal is to bring more buyers to the marketplace, and drive frequency of purchasing and the amount of spend on the Etsy marketplace. Weve outlined below several key growth opportunities for the Etsy marketplace. Capturing more of our total available market Using the above mentioned Euromonitor report and other data, we estimate that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within our six core geographic markets represents an approximately $500 billion market opportunity, and an approximately $2 trillion market opportunity when offline sales are included. The relevant retail categories included in our estimate of total market size are apparel and footwear, beauty and personal care, home and living, craft supplies, paper and party, art and collectibles, personal accessories and eyewear, pet care, and toys and games. We believe that since our 2023 Etsy marketplace GMS represented approximately 2% of that online only portion, we have significant opportunity to gain further e-commerce market share. Since our estimated opportunity is focused on our core geographies and retail categories, additional upside to this opportunity could come from further geographic and/or category expansion for the Etsy marketplace. Driving purchase frequency As outlined above, about half of our active buyer base shops on Etsy one purchase day per year, with the other half purchasing an average of approximately five purchase days per year. Given our broad array of quality listings, we believe Etsy should be able to drive existing and potential buyers to think of us more often for more purchase occasions, driving long-term growth and market share gains. 16 Table of Contents Connected to increasing purchase frequency, in 2023, Etsy began to focus on highlighting brand consideration in specific categories and purchase occasions - such as Gifting, Home and Living, and Style (as described above on page 5). For example, we see significant opportunity to expand in the Gifting market, which we estimate represents a $200 billion relevant opportunity, online and offline, in the United States alone, and where we believe the Etsy marketplace has approximately 1% of that market. We recently launched the Etsy Gift Mode feature, designed to deliver a first-class experience to gift buyers and recipients. According to a buyer survey we conducted in 2019, about 45% of all gifting happens for holidays - from seasonal and secular holidays, Valentines Day, Mothers and Father's Day, and more; 45% of gifts are purchased for personal occasions such as birthdays, births, and weddings; and the remaining 10% are 'just because gifting occasions - missing a loved one or sending a thoughtful item to a sick relative. We believe a focus on gifting can better connect our global buyers to the millions of unique gifting items offered by our sellers and drive more frequent purchasing among buyers. Continuing to expand beyond our top geographies While Etsy more than doubled the number of active buyers on our marketplace from 2019 to a record 92 million in 2023, we continue to believe that there are millions of additional consumers globally interested in unique and creative goods made by independent sellers. We estimate that approximately 30% of adults who identify as women in the United States and the United Kingdom shopped Etsy at least once in 2023, so there are many more millions of women who did not shop on Etsy during that time frame. We estimate our penetration with consumers who identify as men is much lower, with only about 10% of adult men in the United States and United Kingdom having shopped Etsy at least once in 2023. Furthermore, when looking at the next 15 largest markets beyond the United States and United Kingdom, our penetration rate of consumers shopping on Etsy is approximately 80% lower. Continuing to retain and reactivate lapsed buyers We continue to have a very large pool of over 100 million lapsed buyers to reactivate, and we expect that for the foreseeable future there will continue to be millions of buyers for us to reactivate each year. We also have a long history of healthy buyer retention and believe this trend can continue. See The Etsy Marketplace: Our Passionate and Engaged Community on page 12 for additional details. Lastly, there are many millions of visitors to the Etsy marketplace each month who do not make a purchase when they visit. We believe that continued improvements in search and discovery and other components of our Right to Win strategy can help us better convert visitors into buyers and infrequent buyers into loyal customers. House of Brands Opportunity Since 2019, Etsy has taken several important strategic actions that deepen or enhance our total market opportunity beyond what is available to us through our Etsy marketplace. These include: our purchases of Reverb (musical instruments) and Depop (expanding our apparel category opportunity in the resale sector). Below we have provided third-party market research into the go-forward opportunities for these marketplaces. Reverb: According to Music Trades Global Market for Music Products Report (as of December 31, 2022) the total available market opportunity for musical instruments is $24 billion, with approximately $16 billion in new instruments and approximately $8 billion in used instruments, with Reverb having about a 4% market share of the total. Digging a bit deeper, we estimate that Reverb has about 6% share of the available market in the United States, and only 1% share of the international market. We remain optimistic about Reverbs opportunity for future industry market share gains given its broad and deep range of supply, large and loyal community, and value offered on the marketplace. Depop: According to a 2023 ThredUp Annual Resale Report, the global secondhand apparel market (including resale and thrifting) is forecasted to grow approximately three times faster on average than the broader global apparel market through 2027, reaching an estimated $350 billion. We believe that Depop is well positioned to capitalize on the strong growth opportunity in the resale market, hinging on its core differentiation including its unique inventory, affinity with Gen Z and Millennial consumer demographics, matching capabilities between buyers and sellers, value offered on the marketplace, trust in the Depop brand, as well as the people powered experience offered. Depop is particularly focused on expanding share in the United States resale market, which, according to the same report, is forecasted to grow nine times faster than the broader retail clothing sector and reach about $40 billion by 2027. 17 Table of Contents Competition For all of our marketplaces, sellers may choose to list their goods for sale with online retailers or sell their goods through craft fairs and local markets, local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling sellers to sell from their own website or otherwise run their business independently of our platforms. We are able to compete for sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence, our investments in product and marketing for the benefit of our sellers, our tools, education and services which support a seller in running her business, the number and engagement of our buyers, our policies and fees, the effectiveness of our mobile apps, the strength of our communities, and our mission. In addition, we compete with retailers of all shapes and sizes for the attention of our buyers. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, whether large e-commerce marketplaces, national retail chains, local consignment and vintage stores, the brands represented on social commerce channels, resale marketplaces, or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for buyers based on the breadth and quality of items that sellers list in our marketplaces, the ease of finding items, the value and awareness of our brands, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation for trustworthiness, the effectiveness of our mobile apps, the availability of timely, fair, and free shipping offered by sellers to buyers, ease of payment, localization, and experiences targeted based on regional preferences, and the availability and reliability of our platforms. We also compete for media placements, including with retailers competing for the attention of our buyers. Intellectual Property Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect us and our intellectual property. We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect our brands from misuse by third-parties. Government Regulation As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, unclear, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Compliance is costly and can require changes to our business practices and significant amounts of management time and focus. In addition, regulatory and other legal proceedings in the United States and abroad continue to pressure the boundaries of marketplace liability for the activities of their sellers and other third parties. Laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For example, federal and state laws in the United States, E.U. laws, and other national laws govern the processing of payments and consumer protection; other laws define and regulate unfair and deceptive trade practices. Still other laws dictate when and how sales or other taxes must be collected. Laws of defamation apply online and vary by country. We are also subject to federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy and protection of consumer information. Our privacy policies describe our practices concerning the use, storage, transmission and disclosure of personal information, including buyer and seller data. Many jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted laws and regulations requiring notification to users when there is a security breach of personal data, or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to practically implement. In addition, some of these requirements introduce friction into the buying and selling experience on our platforms and may impact the scope and effectiveness of our marketing efforts. Additionally, because we operate internationally, we need to comply with various laws associated with doing business outside of the United States, including anti-money laundering, sanctions, anti-corruption, and export control laws. See Part I, Item IA, Risk FactorsRegulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks. 18 Table of Contents Seasonality Etsy.com sellers experience increased sales and use more Etsy services during the fourth-quarter holiday shopping season. This has resulted in increased GMS and revenue for us during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Our cost of revenue and marketing expenses also generally follow this trend, with the highest costs incurred in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We expect this seasonality to continue in future years. ESG Reporting: Our Impact Goals, Strategy & Progress We have developed an Impact strategy and goals that reflect the positive impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy, and we are pleased to provide this update on our progress. Our Approach to ESG Reporting: We apply similar focus, discipline, and accountability to our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reporting metrics as we do our financial metrics, and we believe that together they make us stronger and more resilient. We use our required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as our Investor Relations website and Etsy News blog, as our primary communications channels for information relating to our Impact strategy and progress. We have various approaches for determining what information we disclose in our ESG reporting, including feedback we receive from the financial community and other stakeholders. In addition, we continue to report our ESG metrics using the relevant Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) sector standards for our industry and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. We also strive to stay abreast of new disclosure regulations that we may be required to comply with so we can develop an action plan and prepare to comply. We expect to continue to evolve our Impact strategy and ESG reporting in the future as our Impact work at Etsy and the broader industry matures. Our discussion of Impact strategy, highlights, and ESG data includes the operations of our Etsy, Reverb, and Depop marketplaces except where noted. Section Page How We Drive Impact The levers we use to drive Impact work 20 Environmental Goals & Highlights 21 Social Goals & Highlights 24 Workforce Metrics Employee Diversity data 30 Governance Highlights 32 SASB Consumer Goods Sector E-Commerce industry standard reporting 33 TCFD Climate - Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, Metrics, and Targets 38 19 Table of Contents How We Drive Impact: Underpinning our Impact strategy is a set of levers we employ to drive toward our Impact goals while advancing and complementing our business strategy. In 2023, Etsy, Inc.s Advocacy team worked with sellers and policymakers around the world to ensure a voice for small business owners in public policy. We continued to advocate for public policies aligned with the needs of creative entrepreneurs including supporting: enhanced access to affordable child care and caregiving leave for micro businesses; the rights of small business owners by advocating against new rules that would impose heavy one size-fits-all burdens on small and microbusinesses; and decarbonizing transportation for shipping, which supports cleaner air, reduced climate risk, and improved health across the globe. Impact Investing. In 2022, we set up a $30 million Impact Investment Fund. In 2023, we deployed $19 million of the $30 million in investments that further our Impact strategy. The undeployed portion of the Fund is on deposit at a large Black-led Minority Deposit institution in the United States. Philanthropy. In 2023, Etsy, together with Etsy marketplace buyers who contributed through the round up feature at checkout, made over $5.1 million in philanthropic donations to organizations driving equitable access to opportunity and direct support for local community based organizations. Contributing to our Communities. Collectively, we enabled Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop employees to donate 4,860 hours of paid volunteer time off in their communities through Etsys Impact Hours program. We supported our sellers impacted by both natural disasters, such as the devastating fire in Hawaii and earthquake in Turkey, and geopolitical events, by means including but not limited to, deferring our fees. Purchasing Power. We aim to drive positive impact in our supply chain by investing in strong relationships with our suppliers. We engage on priority impact areas, such as supplier diversity, greenhouse gas emissions, fair wages, and employee benefits programs, at crucial touch points throughout the supplier lifecycle. We conduct regular reviews and conversations to confirm suppliers are upholding agreed upon practices and to identify further areas where we can engage with suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct designed to ensure that our suppliers are committed to our standards. 20 Table of Contents Environmental Building resilience for the long term Net Zero Goal: Achieve Net Zero through targets aligned with the science of climate change while continuing to offset our carbon emissions. Our Net Zero Targets Scope 1 & 2* By year end 2030, we aim to achieve a 50% reduction in absolute Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions from a 2020 base year. By year end 2040, we aim to achieve a 90% reduction in absolute Scope 1+2 greenhouse gas emissions from a 2020 base year. Scope 3* By year end 2030, we aim to achieve a 52% reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of gross profit from a 2020 base year. By year end 2040, we aim to achieve a 97% reduction in Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions per dollar of gross profit from a 2020 base year. Offsets Continue to offset quantified Scope 1, 2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions annually. * Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions such as natural gas and refrigerants used at our facilities. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions from the generation of electricity and steam that we may purchase for our facilities. Scope 3 emissions include all other indirect emissions that occur in our value chain such as business travel, employee commuting, and the processing of waste from our operations. Our Strategy We believe our Net Zero work strengthens our position as a trusted brand, a core pillar of our long-term strategy, and makes us more resilient, drives efficiencies, and prepares us for anticipated regulations. Whats more, we believe the benefits of reducing emissions resonate beyond our corporate boundaries, contributing to the overall health of people and the planet. We have made consistent progress on our Net Zero goal year over year as seen below: n Absolute Emissions 2030 Aligned Target 2040 Goal nEmissions Intensity 2030 Aligned Target 2040 Goal Scope of our Net Zero Goal: As of December 31, 2023, our Net Zero goal includes emissions from the Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop, and is set against a 2020 baseline which has been adjusted to exclude Elo7.* The above 2020 and 2021 emissions include third-party assured Etsy marketplace and Reverb data and internally reviewed Depop data. Depop accounted for approximately 6% of these emissions in 2020 and 4% in 2021. Our 2022 and 2023 data includes third-party assured data for the Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop. For additional details about how we quantify emissions, see our GHG inventory and related notes on page 37. *Our SBTi approved Net Zero goal included estimated emissions for Elo7. In 2023, Etsy completed the sale of Elo7 and, therefore, the estimated Elo7 emissions previously included in our 2020 baseline have been removed resulting in a 0.5% reduction to the 2020 baseline. In accordance with SBTi materiality guidelines, we are not required to submit the adjusted target for revalidation by the SBTi at this time. 21 Table of Contents Shipping Emissions from the shipping of items sold in our marketplaces are by far the largest source of our quantified Scope 3 emissions. In 2023, these emissions accounted for 59% of our reported Scope 3 emissions. This represents a 22% intensity reduction relative to 2022 and 43% intensity reduction relative to our 2020 baseline. We drive reduction in shipping emissions primarily through advocacy, carrier engagement, and product (marketplace) design. In 2023, we advocated for the U.S. postal services commitment to exclusively purchase electric vehicles starting in 2026. We also expanded engagement on decarbonization with additional shipping carriers. Lastly, as part of our marketplace sustainability strategy, we deepened our product work to more easily enable buyers to shop locally and reduce shipping emissions. This included running a number of local experiments that resulted in GMS wins and valuable learnings to inform future shipping distance reductions efforts. Our Supply Chain Our corporate supply chain emissions are our second largest source of quantified Scope 3 emissions. Through direct supplier engagement, improved data quality (including leveraging more supplier specific emissions data), and supplier selection criteria, in 2023, our reported corporate supply chain emissions intensity decreased by 5% relative to 2022. Our analysis found that 56% of Etsy marketplaces spend went to companies that have set an emissions reduction goal. We also piloted a new supplier carbon fee program with five suppliers in the fourth quarter of 2023. The program requires suppliers to achieve an A- on the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) assessment in order to avoid paying a carbon fee. In 2024, we plan to expand the program to additional suppliers while developing more incentives and tools to support our suppliers in measuring, reducing, and reporting their emissions in line with net zero. Packaging Emissions from our sellers packaging are the third largest source of our quantified Scope 3 emissions. In 2023, these emissions accounted for 12% of our reported Scope 3 emissions, which represents a 7% intensity decrease relative to 2022. Our work to help sellers reduce emissions from packaging is detailed in the Marketplace Sustainability section below. Carbon Offsetting We are focused on meeting our long-term SBTi- approved Net Zero goal. However, while we work toward long-term reductions in line with our goal, we are taking immediate action to address our impact through our commitment to purchase carbon offsets in an amount equal to our quantified annual emissions. We consider our Net Zero emissions reduction efforts to be separate, but complementary to our carbon offsetting, and expect to phase down our investments in offsets as we make progress towards our Net Zero targets. For 2023, we offset Etsy marketplace, Reverb and Depops reported Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions through investments in 468,924 verified emissions reductions (VERs) that, among other things, protect forests, finance solar development, and help develop greener methods for producing auto parts. Investing in Climate Solutions In 2023, Etsy allocated $3.0 million of our Impact Investment Fund (mentioned above) to support Greenbacker Capital Management (GCM). This investment supports GCMs direct investments in renewable energy technology and other energy sector innovations that may reduce reliance on fossil fuels. Sustainable Operations Goal: Maintain best-in-class sustainable operations. Our Sustainable Operations Targets Our Progress Source 100% of electricity used by the Etsy marketplace, Reverb and Depop from renewable sources. Renewable energy sourced for quantified office and remote working electricity usage. Achieve Zero Waste operations at offices where we maintain operational control by year end 2025. See below. Achieve a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use in offices (kWh/sq. ft.) and for computing (kWh/visit) for Etsy marketplace by year end 2025. 34% reduction since 2016 baseline for offices. 72% reduction since 2016 baseline for computing. Striving for best-in-class sustainable operations allows us to focus on long-term cost reduction, minimizing waste, and creating a healthier office environment for our employees. In 2023, we continued to make good progress against our goals. 22 Table of Contents Energy Use In 2023, our total quantified operational energy footprint was 14,556 MWh, of which 75% was from electricity. This includes energy usage from our office facilities, remote worker energy usage, and Google Cloud computing for the Etsy marketplace. Using our Cloud Jewels methodology, we estimate our energy consumption from Google Cloud in 2023 to have been 6,253 MWh for the Etsy marketplace. For more information on our energy mix, please see our SASB disclosure starting on page 33. Renewable Electricity Since 2020, we have sourced renewable energy for the electricity we measured or calculated as used to power our Etsy marketplace and Reverb offices and employees working from home, as well as Etsy marketplace's computing load in Google Cloud. For 2022 and 2023, we also sourced renewable energy for our quantified electricity used to power Depop's offices and used by employees working from home. This was achieved through our 15-year virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA), international renewable energy credits (iRECs), and on-site solar arrays at select offices. Given continued elevated energy costs in 2023, our U.S.-based VPPA generated more settlement credit value than Etsy paid, effectively reducing electricity costs for our U.S. offices. Energy Efficiency Our 2023 energy use for Etsys offices was 4,326 MWh. In offices where we maintain operational control, we achieved a 34% reduction in energy intensity (kWh/sq. ft.) relative to our 2016 baseline. At our Brooklyn headquarters, we continue to participate in the NYC Mayors Carbon Challenge and our ongoing efforts led to a New York City Building Energy Grade of a B. For Etsy marketplaces computing energy use, our estimated energy usage per site visit (kWh/visit) decreased by 72% since 2016, largely due to our move to Google Cloud which has enabled us to dynamically flex our infrastructure capacity, while providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble technology on an as needed basis depending on traffic volume. Zero Waste In 2023, Etsy's Brooklyn office headquarters received Zero Waste certification through the Total Resource Use and Efficiency (TRUE) certification program by Green Business Certification Inc. (GBCI) for the sixth year in a row for diverting over 90% of waste from landfill. We expect to pursue zero waste certification for our new Etsy marketplace office in Dublin during 2024 and are working towards zero waste at other offices by the end of 2025. To support our goal, in 2023, we implemented a new tech-enabled system in our Brooklyn office that measures waste streams and contamination in real-time and plan to roll it out to additional offices in 2024. Marketplace Sustainability Goal: Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably minded shoppers and conscious living by reducing the environmental impact of shopping and fulfillment lifecycles, and creating experiences that promote circularity. Our Marketplace Sustainability Targets & Commitments Our Progress Monitor and report the percent of active listings that have sustainability attributes, and the percent of sellers who have added a sustainability attribute to at least one listing. See update below. For every new item sold, sell at least one used item, and support circularity by increasing orders of used items by 25% by 2025 (from a 2022 baseline). Sold at least one used item for every new item sold and increased orders of used items by 3%. Leverage our marketing and product capabilities to facilitate access to circular fashion and inspire more people to shop circular. See update below. We believe prioritizing sustainability within our marketplaces creates an opportunity to drive strategic growth and ensure we are our communities first stop when they want to shop according to their values. Were bringing sustainability to life for buyers and sellers in several ways: Item Sustainability In 2022, the Etsy marketplace piloted optional sustainability listing attributes that allowed sellers to indicate if their items are made from environmentally conscious materials or are designed to be reusable or to reduce waste. 23 Table of Contents In 2023, we expanded the program by offering improved seller educational content and testing buyer-facing experiences. On December 31, 2023, 2.6% of active Etsy marketplace listings had at least one sustainability attribute, and 7.7% of sellers with an active listing on the Etsy marketplace had added a sustainability attribute to at least one of their active listings. Circularity Our strategy is to inspire and enable people to participate in the circular economy where products and resources remain in use at their highest value across our marketplaces. Our communities are participating in circular systems, from the creative materials they use, to the items they sell, to the packaging they use to ship. Over the course of 2023, sellers created 108 million listings with circular attributes on the Etsy marketplace, Depop and Reverb. Circular attributes on the Etsy marketplace are vintage, upcycled, reusable swaps, and contains recycled content (metal, glass, polyester, plastic, paper, or cotton), or contains vintage gemstones. On Depop, these listings are indicated as secondhand, reworked, destined for waste, or made as circular." Reverb listings with circular attributes are those categorized as used. In line with its mission to make fashion circular, and in support of Depops goal to inspire more people to shop circular, we published our first Environmental Impact Measurement Methodology, which details our approach to estimating the environmental impact of secondhand purchases made on Depop compared to brand-new items. We hope that by showcasing the environmental benefits of shopping secondhand rather than brand-new, we can continue to bring circular fashion to more people. Depop also launched Repop, a feature enabling users to easily re-list unwanted items theyve previously purchased on Depop, keeping them circular. Packaging As part of our efforts to meet our Net Zero goal, we are helping inform sellers about ways to reduce emissions from the packaging they use to ship orders, through both reused packaging and more sustainable options. In 2023, we continued our partnership with EcoEnclose for both Etsy marketplace and Depop sellers in the United States. Through the partnership, sellers can access and buy affordable packaging made from recycled paper and certified responsibly sourced paper that buyers can also recycle easily at home. The program also supports sellers who reuse existing packaging, through a reused packaging sticker option. We also reinforced the environmental benefit of reused and more sustainable packaging through seller marketing channels and events. Helping Our Sellers Build Climate Resilience Our sellers face increasing challenges related to natural disasters. Recognizing this, we have developed a strategy to help sellers build climate resilience focused on recovery and preparedness. In 2023, we expanded our Disaster Response Grant program through Craft Emergency Relief Fund (CERF+), which offers grants to Etsy marketplace U.S. sellers impacted by a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declared disaster. We also partnered with Nest, Inc. and the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) to develop open-source resource guides that make it easier for sellers, and U.S. artisans more broadly, to access climate-related disaster information and funding. To drive uptake among Etsys U.S. sellers, weve adapted these resources into Etsy-specific educational content and seller-facing communications campaigns. Social Ensuring equitable access to opportunity Prioritizing People As the employee diversity, equity and inclusion programs have matured at Etsy, our value of embracing differences remains central. In 2023 we felt it was time to define the strategy that makes diversity, equity and inclusion at Etsy unique - so we developed what we believe is a distinctive approach, utilizing the acronym SIMPLE as defined below: Shared. This isnt one persons job at Etsy, its everyones shared responsibility. Integrated. Maintaining an equitable workplace remains a key part of our long-term company strategy and we embed this principle into our work across the company. Measurable. Monitoring the progress towards our goals, external audits, and engagement surveys keep us accountable. People-centered. Our employees are central to People policy decisions. Leader-driven. Etsys leaders set a positive and inclusive tone from the top. Ethical. Diversity, equity and inclusion is ethical. We know we can do well and do good at the same time. We remain committed to building a workplace where people of all backgrounds and walks of life can thrive. In 2023, we reaffirmed our efforts to grow diverse and inclusive teams because we know diverse perspectives make us a better and stronger business and enhance the culture of Etsy. At Etsy marketplace, we focused on expanding our definition of diversity by placing additional emphasis on accessibility and disability inclusion. We deliberately reinforce inclusive values and practices into key 24 Table of Contents moments in the employee life-cycle such as at New Hire Orientation and Manager Foundations. Across all brands we continued investing in our vibrant Employee Resource Group (ERG) programs. Related to these internal efforts is our commitment to driving diversity, equity, and inclusion within the tech ecosystem. This year we donated $150,000 to organizations driving inclusive tech workforce development programs. Etsy continues to support hybrid working modes, while gathering together periodically with intention and careful planning. We offer paid family leave policies, as well as periodic company-wide rest and recharge days to supplement Etsys paid time off. Employees may also utilize regular focus days, full days where non-critical meetings are canceled and we focus on digging deep into individual work. Etsy also continues to offer mental health days and easy access to mental health benefits to our employees as part of our overall approach to well-being. We continued our focus on employee engagement in 2023, which is linked with high performance, retention, innovation, and growth. We believe our employees have chosen to work at Etsy because they believe in our action-oriented, values-based, and purpose-driven work culture. In 2023, we conducted engagement surveys of all Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop global employees. Of all employees surveyed across each brand, 85% of Etsy marketplace, 86% of Reverb, and 76% of Depop employees submitted a response. 80% of Etsy marketplace respondents, 72% of Reverb respondents, and 75% of Depop respondents reported favorable employee engagement. See our SASB disclosure on page 34 for more details. On December 12, 2023, our Board of Directors approved the Restructuring Plan, which included an approximately 11% reduction of the Etsy marketplace workforce. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2023 Reverb reduced its workforce by approximately 13%. After giving effect to employee departures in connection with our Restructuring Plan, we had approximately 2,420 total employees worldwide on December 31, 2023, including approximately 240 Reverb employees and approximately 400 Depop employees. Specifically related to the Etsy marketplace, when we decided to reduce our workforce, our goal was to ensure the new structure was better aligned to our Vital Few business priorities and foundational work streams, while keeping fairness at the forefront of this process. Etsy remains committed to diversity and will be continuing efforts to build diverse, equitable and inclusive teams. Our employee diversity, equity, and inclusion metrics are reported below as of December 31, 2023 and do not reflect the Restructuring Plan related employee departures that occurred after December 31, 2023. Employee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Goal: Build diverse and inclusive work forces that are broadly representative of their communities. Our Employee Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Targets Our Progress Approximately double (baseline 2018: 8.6%) the percentage of Etsy marketplace U.S. employees who identify as Black, Latinx, or Native American by year end 2025 (Updated target year from 2023). At December 31, 2023, 15.4% of Etsy marketplace U.S. employees identified as Black, Latinx, or Native American. For Mexico and Ireland-based Software Engineering teams, achieve approximately two times country-level gender representation benchmark for women and marginalized genders by year end 2027. Mexico target: 13% Ireland target: 16% At December 31, 2023: Mexico: 16.5% Ireland: 23.8% Score an 80 or higher on Disability: IN's Disability Equality Index. 2023 score: 100 Reach gender parity at Reverb (increasing women and marginalized genders to at least 50%) by year end 2026. UPDATED in 2023: By year end 2028, increase representation of women and marginalized gender communities at Reverb to at least 45%. At December 31, 2023, 35.1% of Reverb employees were women or marginalized genders. Approximately double the percentage of U.S. employees at Reverb who identify as BIPOC by year end 2026. (Baseline 2020: 16.6%). (Note: Reverbs definition of BIPOC includes Black, Latinx, Native American, Asian and two or more races.) UPDATED in 2023: Through year end 2028, maintain representation of U.S. employees at Reverb who identify as BIPOC at or above ~21%. At December 31, 2023, 21.5% of Reverb U.S. employees identified as BIPOC, up from 18.9% in 2022. 25 Table of Contents Achieve 35% of underrepresented ethnicities in U.S. and U.K. employees by year end 2028 (Note: Depop defines underrepresented ethnicities as Asian, Black, Mixed and staff identifying as Other, including Latinx in the United States.) At December 31, 2023, 26% of Depop U.S. and U.K. employees identified as underrepresented ethnicities. Achieve 27% of underrepresented gender identities on engineering and data teams by year end 2028. At December 31, 2023, 26.8% of Depop employees on engineering and data teams had underrepresented gender identities. Racial/Ethnic Diversity In 2018, Etsy marketplace set a goal to double the percentage of Black, Latinx, and Native American (collectively called underrepresented communities or URC) employees at the company by year end 2023. While weve significantly increased racial/ethnic diversity on our U.S. team since 2018, as of December 31, 2023 weve come up short of our original goal. We have a strong conviction that diverse and inclusive teams build more creative and innovative solutions that strengthen our business and enhance our ability to better serve wider audiences. Weve added two additional years to the term of this goal and will continue to report our progress annually. In 2023, we held onto the progress made between 2019 and 2022. Though the Etsy marketplace did less hiring this year than in the year prior, in 2023, URC employees constituted 18.8% of U.S. Etsy marketplace hires. As a result, at December 31, 2023, URC employees made up 15.4% of Etsy marketplace's U.S. workforce, up from 8.6% in 2018. That represents a 79.1% increase relative to where we began in 2018. In 2023, Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) constituted 53.3% of Reverbs U.S. hires, up from 27.7% in 2022. As of December 31, 2023, Reverbs U.S. workforce included 21.5% BIPOC representation, compared to 18.9% on December 31, 2022. In 2023, Reverbs hiring forecast decreased and Reverbs diversity goal was adjusted to meet or exceed about 21% BIPOC representation (the previous goal was to double the 2020 benchmark of 16.6%). In 2023, underrepresented ethnicities at Depop constituted 38.6% of hires in the U.S. and U.K., up from 24.2% over 2022. As of December 31, 2023, Depops U.S. and U.K. workforce included 26% underrepresented ethnicities, compared to 30% on December 31, 2022. Gender Diversity Etsy proudly maintains approximate gender parity in the overall employee population and among Leadership. Weve identified Software Engineering as an area for focus on improving gender diversity. In the U.S., at December 31, 2023, the percentage of women and marginalized gender software engineers at the Etsy marketplace was 39.5%. Globally across all functions, at the Etsy marketplace, the representation of women and marginalized gender employees was 52.1% at year end 2023. Women and marginalized gender employees constituted 51.6% of new hires at the Etsy marketplace in 2023. In 2022 we set goals to increase representation of women and marginalized genders on Software Engineering teams in Mexico and Ireland by the end of 2027. We are proud to be tracking above the goals that were set. As of December 31, 2023, in Mexico, we had 16.5% representation of women and marginalized gender employees, and, in Ireland, we had 23.8% representation of women and marginalized gender employees. At Reverb, women and marginalized genders made up 45.2% of hires in 2023 compared to 51% in 2022. At Reverb, the representation of women and marginalized gender employees decreased from 36.4% at December 31, 2022 to 35.1% at December 31, 2023. Reverb remains committed to retaining employees from underrepresented communities, including through its mentorship programs. At Depop, the representation of women and marginalized gender employees was 48.3% of the workforce at year end 2023, with that cohort making up 59.1% of 2023 hires. Depop set a goal in 2023 to achieve 27% representation of women and marginalized gender employees on the engineering and data teams by year end 2028. As of December 31, 2023, we had 26.8% women and marginalized gender representation on those teams, up from the baseline of 20% at December 31, 2022. 26 Table of Contents Expanding Our Understanding of Diversity As Diversity, Equity and Inclusion at Etsy matures and evolves, so does our shared understanding of diversity. While our goals remain dedicated to creating a positive and inclusive workplace for all employees and addressing gaps in representation, we are making a concerted effort to view diversity as an expansive concept. For example, employees have an opportunity to self-identify, via secure survey, not only their gender and racial identity, but also their disability status, sexual orientation and veteran status. That data is used for aggregate reporting, and to inform programming and benefits needs. In 2023, we took important steps to deepen disability inclusion as described further below. Additional information on our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion can be found at careers.etsy.com/dei. Our core ERGs continue to thrive, with ten formalized groups for the Etsy marketplace. The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion team also supports additional internal communities representing Interfaith, MENA (Middle Eastern and North African), Muslim, and Veteran identities. ERGs at Reverb have grown to include six formal groups and Depop has established four ERGs this year. ERG leaders receive a stipend in recognition of their contribution in building a culture of inclusion. Etsy marketplaces ERGs also continue to utilize philanthropic giving to amplify their community building contributions. In 2023, Etsy marketplace continued expanding the Dens program that is open to all employees. Dens are peer cohorts that meet regularly for facilitated dialog on leadership and the challenges we face at work. The program includes an option for identity-based cohorts that we call Affinity Dens for Asian, Black, and Latinx identifying employees, LGBTQ+ employees, neurodiverse employees, people with disabilities, as well as women and marginalized gender employees. Etsy marketplaces Mentorship Circle Program also offers robust supports for Etsy employees, including those from underrepresented racial communities, employees with disabilities, neurodiverse employees, and LGBTQ+ employees. Reverb and Depop also support mentorship programs in cooperation with their respective Diversity, Equity and Inclusion leaders. Depop ran an Inclusion Week which offered an allyship panel and activities to promote ERG participation. Progress On Disability Inclusion In 2022, we set an ambitious goal to prioritize Disability Inclusion and Accessibility for employees at our Etsy marketplace, and the Etsy marketplace committed to scoring an 80 or above on DisabilityIn.org's Disability Equality Index in 2023. This commitment enabled us to create a roadmap of enhancements across our programs, policies, and practices for the Etsy marketplace - and we are proud to have achieved a score of 100 as a result. Examples of our enhancements include developing and implementing Disability inclusion training modules for new hires and managers, adding accommodations language to our recruiting content, training talent acquisition partners to effectively and inclusively recruit and work with candidates with disabilities, and updating our U.S. and U.K. self-identification questions on disability status for employees. Our CEO, Josh Silverman, also signed onto a public pledge of support for disability inclusion in the workplace with the CEOs are IN pledge. We are committed to maintaining a best in class score in 2024 for the Etsy marketplace, as well as engaging Reverb and Depop in benchmarking their current practices in order to build a roadmap of similar improvements for their respective organizations. We believe a central measure of our progress is evident in employee self-disclosure of disability status. Without reason to share or enough trust between a company and its employees, individuals are unlikely to self-disclose. In 2023, 10.7% of U.S. and U.K. Etsy marketplace employees disclosed that they have or have had a disability. Pay Equity & Pay Band Visibility Etsy takes proactive measures at each step of the employee journey in order to ensure fair pay practices. At the recruiting stage, we determine compensation packages within our existing frameworks by comparing outgoing offers to internal roles with comparable experience. During compensation reviews, we use guideposts when determining the size of merit and promotion increases and bonuses based on performance outcomes. Additionally, all compensation recommendations are reviewed by designated Human Resources Business Partners and senior leadership to ensure equity. Etsy also periodically makes market-based adjustments to compensation that we apply consistently within and across teams, to ensure pay for internal employees is aligned with that of new hires. As part of our commitment to fair pay practices, we completed our most recent biennial Pay Equity analysis, conducted by a third-party consulting firm, in 2022. The purpose of this analysis is to look at pay across jobs and levels to ensure our practices are fair and consistent and that compensation is not influenced by gender, or race/ethnicity. The analysis found no unexplained pay gaps adverse to women or employees from other marginalized genders, or non-white employees. Additionally, there were no unexplained pay gaps based on intersectionality (i.e., based on the combination of race and gender/ethnicity). We plan to continue to comprehensively audit pay equity biennially with an external consultant, and conduct internal reviews several times a year in conjunction with events such as rating and promotion decisions and market adjustments. We also introduced pay band visibility in 2022 at Etsy and Reverb. We believe disclosing individual pay band information is an important component of equitable pay practices and helps our employees and prospective candidates better understand what factors contribute to pay decisions and pay progression for their roles. 27 Table of Contents Supplier Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Goal: Create an equitable and sustainable supply chain that supports our House of Brands while reducing our carbon footprint, supporting diverse businesses and bringing new economic opportunities to our suppliers and their employees. Our Supplier Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Target Our Progress Achieve $120 million in cumulative diverse* supplier spend from January 1, 2022 through year end 2025. * Diverse supplier is defined as woman-owned, disability-owned and LGBTQ-owned globally; as well as underrepresented racial communities (Black, Asian-Indian, Asian-Pacific, Hispanic/Latinx, Indigenous) and veteran-owned in the United States. $55 million in cumulative diverse spend from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023. Supplier Diversity Etsy renewed our commitment to enable equitable access to economic opportunities by launching a new Supplier Diversity Program in 2023, including a target to reach $120 million in diverse spend across our House of Brands by 2025. In line with our expectations, from January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2023, we achieved $55 million in spend with diverse owned suppliers, as defined above, across our House of Brands. Critical to success for our program, we invested in foundational work designed to allow us to expand and mature our program in the coming years. We added Depop into our supplier Impact vetting process to track diverse supplier spend across the entire House of Brands. We automated our internal reporting processes and streamlined data collection, enabling us to identify opportunities to source new suppliers or deepen and consolidate spend with others. To further our engagement with minority-owned suppliers, we became a corporate member of the National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), a nationally recognized nonprofit certifying body and corporate network. We kicked off efforts to utilize their verified NMSDC database to identify current suppliers that are certified minority-owned and identify additional diverse suppliers to build out our pipeline. Employment Practice Priorities Etsy utilizes a number of vendors, contractors, and consultants, collectively our vendor partners, in the ordinary course of its business. These vendor partners are typically engaged to (a) enable Etsy to access otherwise unavailable expertise; (b) to fill short term staffing requirements (for example, temporary leave replacements); or (c) support our operations, including to deliver 24-hour multilingual customer support and trust and safety support coverage. In 2023, we continued to educate our vendor partners who employ contractors who do work for Etsy on Etsys aspirational guidelines for employment practices. We continued a process to survey and evaluate our third-party partners across key practices. Where we identify gaps, we open dialogues with our vendors, using these guidelines as a north star: Ensuring our contractors receive a progressive living wage, adjusted for market conditions, based on location. Using our leverage with vendor partners to achieve a progressive and flexible paid leave policy for all full-time contractors, including vacation time, sick time, and gender-neutral parental leave. Ensuring all full-time contractors have access to quality medical care for themselves and their dependents. Creative Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Goal: Build Marketplaces that are Diverse, Welcoming and Inclusive Places to Sell and Shop, and Drive Equity within Creative Communities. Our Creative Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Targets & Commitments In 2023, set a 5-year public target for how many economically disenfranchised, creative businesses we will strengthen through our investments in social impact and innovation. UPDATED: Provide programs and services to support economically disenfranchised creative businesses. 28 Table of Contents Aim to include at least 45% Black and Brown skin tones in marketing assets on Etsy-owned and Etsy-managed channels in the United States. In 2023, set a 5 year public target for the promotion of underrepresented seller shops through merchandised experiences that broadly aligns with representation in our communities. UPDATED: Continue to showcase products made by a diverse community of sellers and enable buyers to support shops run by underrepresented sellers. Aim to invest in programs or initiatives that drive equity for underrepresented communities on Depop. Following last years consolidation of our Marketplace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and Social Innovation goals under a single Creative Community Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goal, we set out to develop targets to guide our work over the long term, while continuing to drive our social impact programs that support creative entrepreneurs. We're evaluating efficient mechanisms to set targets and collect reliable data consistently. In the meantime, we remain steadfast in our work to create pathways for equitable access to economic opportunity through creative entrepreneurship. Commitment to Diverse Imagery In 2023, we worked to ensure that the images we proactively created and shared in our Etsy marketplace were broadly representative of the communities in which we live. In 2023, 49.7% of the people in marketing assets on Etsy marketplace-owned and Etsy marketplace-managed channels in the United States had black or brown skin tone representation or were identified as people of color. Commitment to Economic Opportunity Etsy understands the critical role creative entrepreneurship can play in building economic independence and freedom for communities and has long been committed to utilizing our marketplace to help makers with a creative idea build a business online. Our work aims to ensure that the pathways to creative entrepreneurship are available to all. Etsy marketplaces Uplift Initiative focuses on supporting creative entrepreneurs facing challenges such as lack of access to an internet connection or limited digital skills and capital to grow their businesses. In addition to Etsys contributions to the Etsy Uplift Fund, in 2023 U.S. buyers elected to donate the change on their orders 4.2 million times. This enabled us to distribute $3.55 million in grants on behalf of Etsy and our buyer community to support organizations driving resources to creative entrepreneurs. This years grantees include: Accion Opportunity Fund - a nonprofit organization committed to providing small business owners with access to capital, networks, and coaching, that will extend tailored support to creative entrepreneurs. DreamSpring - a Community Development Finance Institution (CDFI) working to revitalize communities through their support of small businesses across the United States, with an emphasis on comprehensive programming to support the growth of creative businesses. Hello Alice - a small business community catalyzer championing entrepreneurship that will provide direct services aiming to help creatives launch and grow healthy businesses. Nest - a leading nonprofit driving access to economic opportunity for makers in the handcraft sector that will expand financial readiness and business growth for artisans. In 2023, the Uplift Makers program carried on Etsys commitment to supporting heritage artisan communities in gaining economic independence through inclusion in the digital economy. In addition to growing the number of makers within prior cohorts, this year we expanded the footprint of our work with the Oaxaca Artesana Collective, a group of skilled craftspeople from Oaxaca, Mexico. Uniting traditional artistry that has spanned generations with their own modern interpretations, these makers utilize their pieces to honor their traditions and share their culture with buyers. Over $285,000 in sales was generated in 2023 by Uplift Maker shops. Investing in the Creative Economy Etsys investments also drive forward positive impact for entrepreneurs. In 2023, our Impact Investment Fund invested $16 million with the hope to propel economic growth for entrepreneurs via: Grameen America - this allocation supports the growth of microloans available for low-income women business owners and their overall financial stability. Community Investment Management (CIM) - this investment provides capital to demonstrate and scale responsible innovation in lending for underserved communities. Local Initiatives Support Corporation (LISC) - this investment is focused on growing investment capital opportunities to creative businesses or projects that support those in creative industries in under-resourced neighborhoods in the United States. 29 Table of Contents These investments provide capital and wrap around business support services to entrepreneurs, particularly business owners who face barriers to access that impede their ability to grow. Commitment Across our House of Brands Supporting our communities is important for all of our brands. Reverb Gives advances music programs globally and in 2023 provided access to musical equipment by distributing approximately $86,000 in purchase credits and awards. In 2023, Depop surveyed more than 14,000 users to understand the make-up of its community, their inclusion sentiment and the barriers to success they faced with a view to inform our marketing and Impact programming in 2024. Depop also conducted an accessibility audit of its app on both iOS and Android in the fourth quarter of 2023 with a view to running accessibility user testing and starting to address areas for improvement in 2024. Workforce Metrics Our mission is to Keep Commerce Human. Our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion goals are integral to who we are as a company: namely, marketplaces and workplaces that are made stronger by the unique and special qualities of our communities. We are committed to transparent reporting on workforce diversity. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Our metrics as of December 31, 2023 do not give effect to any Restructuring Plan employee departures that occurred after December 31, 2023. Overall metrics include all employees globally. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics, and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Engineering employees are defined as those employees who work within the Engineering Job Family Group. Other Business Roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics represent our global employee base, while race ethnicity metrics represent U.S. only in the below graphs and table. We remain dedicated to diversity at the Board level. In 2022, our Board of Directors strengthened its commitment to diversity by specifically requiring that any initial list of candidates considered by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee for nomination to our Board of Directors include at least two qualified candidates with diversity of race, ethnicity or gender. Etsy expects to provide additional disclosures on Board of Directors diversity in our Proxy Statement for our 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. Our 2022 consolidated equal employment opportunity (EEO-1) report can be found on our Investor Relations website. Gender Metrics - Global Board of Directors Overall Leadership Tech Engineering Other Business Roles nFemale nMale nAdditional Genders nNot Declared Etsy commissioned an external third-party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. For Gender Metrics, 2021 includes Etsy marketplace and Reverb, 2022 includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb, Depop, and Elo7 (divested), and 2023 includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop. 30 Table of Contents RACE & ETHNICITY METRICS - U.S. ONLY Board Overall Leadership Tech Engineering Other Business Roles 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 2021 2022 2023 American Indian or Alaska Native % % % 0.1 % 0.2 % 0.1 % % % % 0.2 % 0.2 % 0.1 % 0.3 % 0.2 % 0.1 % % 0.1 % 0.2 % Asian % % % 18.9 % 18.7 % 20.5 % 15.6 % 14.1 % 15.8 % 24.7 % 24.0 % 25.6 % 24.2 % 24.5 % 25.4 % 9.8 % 10.2 % 11.3 % Black/ African American 22.2% 22.2% 22.2% 6.1 % 7.1 % 7.3 % 6.1 % 6.2 % 5.5 % 5.4 % 5.6 % 5.9 % 5.6 % 4.8 % 5.1 % 7.2 % 9.5 % 10.2 % Hispanic % % % 6.3 % 7.3 % 7.2 % 3.3 % 4.0 % 3.6 % 5.0 % 5.7 % 5.9 % 5.6 % 5.9 % 5.6 % 8.5 % 9.9 % 9.8 % Two or More Races % % % 3.7 % 3.5 % 3.6 % 2.2 % 2.2 % 1.6 % 3.9 % 3.6 % 3.8 % 4.4 % 3.9 % 4.3 % 3.1 % 3.2 % 3.0 % White 77.8% 77.8% 77.8% 61.2 % 60.2 % 58.5 % 70.0 % 71.8 % 71.5 % 57.0 % 58.1 % 55.8 % 55.6 % 57.3 % 56.2 % 67.8 % 63.8 % 62.7 % Not Declared % % % 3.7 % 3.0 % 2.9 % 2.8 % 1.8 % 2.0 % 3.8 % 2.8 % 2.8 % 4.4 % 3.4 % 3.2 % 3.6 % 3.3 % 2.9 % Etsy commissioned an external third-party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. For Race & Ethnicity Metrics, 2021 includes Etsy marketplace and Reverb, and 2022 and 2023 include Etsy marketplace, Reverb and Depop. AGE METRICS - GLOBAL* 2021 2022 2023 n24 years and younger n30-34 years n40-49 years n25-29 years n35-39 years n50+ years *Age Not Declared was .2% in 2021, .1% in 2022, and .04% in 2023. Etsy commissioned an external third-party to perform attest procedures with respect to our diversity metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. For Age Metrics, 2021 includes Etsy marketplace and Reverb, 2022 includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop, and Elo7 (divested), and 2023 includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb and Depop. 31 Table of Contents Governance Fostering a culture of ethics and accountability Responsible Marketplace Practices The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among our buyer and seller communities are the cornerstones of Etsys business. For more information, please see Part 1, Item 1, BusinessPrimary Business DriversTrust & Safety of this Annual Report. Thoughtful Corporate Governance Our corporate governance practices include an independent Board Chair, a fully independent Board of Directors (except for our CEO), independent Committee members, sophisticated and fully engaged directors with different areas of relative expertise and additional dimensions of diversity, and a balanced distribution of director tenure. For a more complete description of our corporate governance practices, please refer to our Proxy Statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. More information on our governance policies and guidelines is available at the Investor Relations section of our website. In alignment with our mission to Keep Commerce Human and as part of our commitment to upholding and promoting human rights across our marketplaces and throughout our value chain, we published our Human Rights Commitment in 2023. In 2023 we also published our Modern Slavery Statement, developed roadmaps for updating our supplier selection and management processes, made updates to our Supplier Code of Conduct to more explicitly include human rights, and clarified and expanded upon elements of our Imagery of Minors policy. And while the connections we facilitate are uniquely human, they are rendered ever more seamless by the power of technology and artificial intelligence (AI). In 2023, we formed a cross-functional working group that reports to our Chief Technology Officer on the responsible use of AI across our marketplaces, in our operations, and through our partnerships. Integrated ESG Reporting We strive to continue to innovate and evolve our ESG disclosures to hold ourselves accountable and transparently engage with all of our stakeholders. Since 2018, weve shared our ESG metrics alongside our financial results in our Integrated Annual Report. This practice is intended to ensure that were transparent about and accountable for progress against our environmental and social goals. Risk Oversight and Management One of the key functions of our Board of Directors is to provide informed oversight of our risk management processes. While management is responsible for day-to-day management of the material risks we face, our Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. Since 2019, Etsy has had a Risk Steering Committee, which consists of a cross-functional management team that meets regularly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy. Periodic reports on material risk are provided to the full Board of Directors or to the Board Committee assisting the Board of Directors with oversight of management of the particular risk. The Risk Steering Committee also periodically considers areas of new or evolving risks and works to understand risk analyses and establish appropriate mitigation plans. For more information on risk oversight generally, please see Board Oversight of Risk in Etsys Proxy Statement. For information on how we manage our climate related risks, please refer to our complete TCFD response beginning on page 38 of this Annual Report. For information on how we manage our cybersecurity risks, please refer to Item 1C, beginning on page 71 of this Annual Report. 32 Table of Contents SASB Disclosure The Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsys disclosures are designed to provide comparable and consistent data. We have included below the metrics from SASBs Consumer Goods Sector E-Commerce industry standard that are relevant to our business. Unless otherwise noted as relating to Etsy marketplace, Reverb, or Depop, information in this section applies to Etsy, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. SASB Metrics SASB Code Metric 2021 2022 2023 CG-EC-000.A Entity-defined measure of user activity Active buyers (thousands) 96,336 95,076 96,483 Active sellers (thousands) 7,522 7,470 9,035 2021 and 2022 Active buyers and Active sellers includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb, Depop and Elo7, while 2023 excludes Elo7 (divested). CG-EC-000.B Data processing capacity In February 2020, we completed our full migration to Google Cloud for the Etsy marketplace. Reverb and Depop use Amazon Web Services (AWS) for their cloud computing needs. Our Etsy marketplace cloud migration has enabled us to dynamically flex our infrastructure capacity, while providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble technology on an as needed basis depending on traffic volume. Percentage outsourced 100% 100% 100% Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management CG-EC-130a.1 Total energy consumed, MWh (Etsy marketplace) 5,362 6,379 6,253 Percentage renewable energy (Etsy marketplace) 100% 100% 100% Percentage grid electricity (Etsy marketplace) 100% 100% 100% CG-EC-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs. For 2023 we continued to meet our goal to source renewable electricity for our Google Cloud computing for the Etsy marketplace, and we have a 2025 goal to reduce the intensity of our energy use by 25% from a 2016 baseline. These goals are included as key considerations as we plan for our computing needs, and have been a focus of our sustainability efforts. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected Google Cloud, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity, for the Etsy marketplace. Their highly efficient data centers have helped us save significant overhead energy. We achieved a 72% reduction in energy intensity (kWh per site visit) from computing between 2016 and 2023, despite substantial growth in our business over the same period. We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure for the Etsy marketplace. For 2023, we estimate that our energy consumption in Google Cloud was 6,253 MWh, based on a methodology developed by Etsy and reviewed by industry experts (our Cloud Jewels methodology). Quantification of our cloud energy consumption is allowing us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. Our 2023 hardware infrastructure energy footprint does not include Reverb, Depop, or Elo7 (for the partial year owned) as we are not currently able to calculate energy usage from AWS, but we do include the emissions from Reverb and Depops hardware infrastructure in our Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services calculations. In 2018, Etsy entered into a virtual power purchase agreement for solar energy generated in Virginia. This project is providing us with renewable attributes to apply to the energy consumed by our operations and computing infrastructure, furthering our goals of creating a cleaner internet and reducing our impact on the planet. 33 Table of Contents Data Privacy and Advertising Standards CG-EC-220a.2 Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy. We care deeply about privacy and are committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsys Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Etsys Transparency Report also includes details of our Privacy Principles. Among other things, our Privacy Policy and Cookies & Similar Technologies Policy cover the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to their data including based on type and sensitivity by region and worldwide, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third-party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy, its affiliates and third-party partners, disclosures about third-party partner privacy policy and options, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third-parties. Depop and Reverb each have separate policies in place that address similar privacy matters. Data Security CG-EC-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks. Data security is overseen by our Chief Technology Officer (CTO) assisted by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) . We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, regular testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees. In 2021, to provide for more focused oversight of rapidly evolving information security risks and mitigation strategies, we expanded the role of the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors in the oversight of Etsys technology and information security policies and practices, and the internal controls relating to information security, and the steps taken by management to identify, monitor, and control these exposures. In December 2023, we formed a Risk Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors and moved assisting the Board of Directors with its oversight of technology and information security risks to the Risk Oversight Committee. Our Board also periodically participates in tabletop exercises conducted by senior management, with the assistance of outside counsel as needed, as part of risk management and disaster-related planning to validate, test, and assess the effectiveness and adequacy of certain roles and decision-making processes in the event of a cyber-incident. Further information can be found in our Data Privacy & Security policy on our Investor Relations site. Reverb and Depop also have similar policies that can be found on their respective websites. Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance SASB Code Metric 2021 2022 2023 CG-EC-330a.1 Employee engagement as a percentage (Etsy marketplace) 75% 77% 80% Employee engagement as a percentage (Reverb) 75% 75% 72% Employee engagement as a percentage (Depop) 72% 75% Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology. In May 2023, we conducted separate engagement surveys of Etsy marketplace employees and Reverb employees. Of employees surveyed, 85% of Etsy marketplace and 86% of Reverb employees submitted a response, and 80% of Etsy respondents and 72% of Reverb respondents reported favorable employee engagement. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 64 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, and two free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response for Etsy marketplace. At Reverb, the Culture Amp survey consisted of 60 rating questions, three free-text questions and two multiple choice questions. During July 2023, Depop conducted its most recent bi-annual engagement survey through Peakon. 76% of employees submitted a response, with a resulting engagement score of 7.5 (75%). This is the average score given by respondents to four key engagement questions, all of which are rated on a scale of 1-10. This score has been converted into a percentage based on the overall engagement score. 34 Table of Contents SASB Metrics SASB Code Metric 2021 2022 2023 CG-EC-330a.3 Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functions See Workforce Metrics section for details starting on page 30. Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performance See Social section for details starting on page 24. CG-EC-330a.4 Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders 5.6 % 3.8 % 3.7 % Product Packaging and Distribution Etsy Marketplace, Reverb Etsy Marketplace, Reverb, Depop Etsy Marketplace, Reverb, Depop CG-EC-410a.1 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO2e 363,361 339,395 276,559 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of packaging in metric tons CO2e 63,645 57,911 56,826 CG-EC-410a.2 Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery. The delivery of products sold on our marketplaces represents the majority of Etsys carbon footprint. As peer-to-peer marketplaces, we do not directly control seller shipping or the associated logistics networks; however, we are committed to addressing carbon emissions from shipping and packaging. For more information see our Net Zero progress on page 21. For 2023, we offset quantified emissions generated from shipping and packaging on the Etsy, Reverb, and Depop marketplaces through investments in verified emissions reductions. This allows us to take immediate action while we work toward our Net Zero goal. In addition, we take action in support of policy solutions that we believe will help drive carbon reduction from product delivery in the long-term. In 2023, we advocated for the U.S. postal services commitment to exclusively purchase electric vehicles starting in 2026, an action that will support cleaner air, reduced climate risk and improved health across the globe. We continued our partnership with EcoEnclose in 2023. See our Marketplace Sustainability section on page 23 for more details. We continue to collaborate with peers, vendors, and NGOs on industry-wide efforts to drive efficiency and resilience in the shipping and logistics sector. 35 Table of Contents Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions Summary (tCO2e) Etsy Marketplace, Reverb Etsy Marketplace, Reverb, Depop Etsy Marketplace, Reverb, Depop GHG Emissions by Scope 2021 2022 2023 Scope 1 350 371 330 Scope 2 - Market 0 0 0 Scope 2 - Location1 420 542 813 Scope 3 548,900 531,638 468,594 Scope 3 Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/ million $ gross profit) 293 246 Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity Source Category 1: Purchased Goods & Services2 Purchased Goods & Services (excluding Computing) 97,302 106,434 102,157 Cloud Computing - Google Cloud (Etsy Only) 13,623 12,054 15,397 Other Computing 466 1,836 2,012 Category 3: Fuel & Energy Related Activities3 Fuel & Energy Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 2,711 3,429 251 Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations Waste 3 5 6 Water 4 4 9 Category 6: Business Travel3 Air Travel 67 1,067 4,093 Other Business Travel 9 163 462 Category 7: Employee Commuting3 Commuting 83 1,042 344 Remote Workers 1,066 1,401 754 Category 9: Downstream Transportation & Distribution Shipping 363,361 339,395 276,559 Packaging 63,645 57,911 56,826 Category 11: Use of Sold Products3 End User Energy Use 6,560 6,897 9,724 Additional Environmental Metrics (unit of measure) Energy (Megawatt hours) Offices - Electricity 2,568 Offices - Heating 1,758 Remote Working - Electricity 2,106 Remote Working - Heating 1,871 Refrigerants (tCO2e included in Scope 1) 11 Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. 36 Table of Contents Notes on Our GHG Inventory We note that the above emissions do not include any net calculation for the application of carbon offsets. For 2021, emissions generated from our co-located data centers are included in Scope 2 emissions; we did not have operations in any colocated data centers in 2022 or 2023. In 2022, we included emissions from Depop in our above calculations. For Scope 3 - Category 1, we utilized publicly available emissions data to derive emissions calculations for several suppliers that may cause this data to not be as comparable year-over-year. For the subsection of Scope 3 - Category 1, Cloud Computing - Google Cloud (Etsy marketplace only), we calculated the emissions partly with data provided by Google and partly by our own calculation of their market-based emissions. Using Etsys Cloud Jewels methodology, we estimated our Google Cloud Platforms Scope 2 energy usage and with Googles agreement, retired RECs on behalf of this energy usage, thus reducing our supplier emissions from Google Cloud. In 2023, we made the following updates to our methodology for quantifying our GHG inventory: 1 We moved to a new carbon data management vendor allowing us to derive a portion of our quantified Scope 2 location-based emissions with different and more commonly used emissions factors, resulting in an increase of emissions compared to the emissions factors used in 2022. 2 Our new carbon data management vendor derived our emissions for Scope 3 - Category 1 and included calculations to account for inflation or deflation which resulted in a decrease in emissions due to spend amounts shrinking when adjusting the dollar value from 2012 to 2022. Our vendor also derived more supplier specific emissions factors based on publicly available data from some suppliers, resulting in a decrease in emissions as the emissions data from suppliers were lower than the average EPA EEIO factors previously used. Additionally, we updated our Google Cloud Platform emissions calculation by obtaining emissions data directly from Google, resulting in an increase in emissions as the data for Scope 2 Market-based emissions was higher than estimated in 2022. 3 We re-categorized emissions from upstream and fuel and energy related activities that were a result of Business Travel, Commuting, and End User Energy from Scope 3 Category 3 into Scope 3 Categories 6, 7, and 11 respectively, resulting in increased emissions in these categories and a decrease in Scope 3 Category 3 emissions. We note that this change did not have an impact on overall emissions as it is just a re-categorization. Additionally, in Scope 3 - Category 6, our calculation of Air Travel emissions was changed to include emissions from radiative force in the emissions factors, resulting in an increase in emissions, as radiative forcing includes calculations with a higher global warming potential than those without. In Scope 3 - Category 7, we updated our calculations for employee commuting to use data from government sources and data aggregators. Overall the changes in methodology in 2023 decreased our calculated emissions when compared to methodologies previously used. As a result of the above changes in scope, methodology, and our continued efforts at further accountability, some categories of emissions data are not comparable from year to year. Additional details regarding the scope and data methodologies used to calculate our GHG emissions data can be found on our Investor Relations website. 37 Table of Contents The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Etsy treats climate change and its related impacts seriously. Since 2020, we have reported enhanced climate-related disclosures in line with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. TCFD provides a framework with four thematic areas Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets and eleven recommended disclosures. The following disclosures provide information intended to address each recommendation, including references to other publicly available sources for related information. ESG and climate governance as well as our Impact Strategy are set at an Etsy, Inc. level while the results from the climate risk assessment discussed in this section are limited to the Etsy marketplace. While we have identified and disclosed a number of relevant climate-related risks, we have determined that at this time none of these risks represent a material short-term risk to our business. For a discussion of certain risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Governance Board of Directors oversight of climate-related risks & opportunities Etsys full Board of Directors has overall responsibility for oversight of risk management at Etsy, including management of climate risk. The charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee (the N&CGC) of our Board of Directors provides that the N&CGC has responsibility for periodic review of our environmental and social Impact goals and our progress towards those goals. We typically report on our progress towards our Impact goals to the N&CGC or the full Board of Directors two times a year. Historically, the full Board of Directors received briefings, generally quarterly, on risk management-related topics. To assist our Board of Directors with its oversight of Etsys management of risk exposures and processes for monitoring and mitigating risk, the Board of Directors recently formed a Risk Oversight Committee. Starting in 2024, we anticipate that many of the briefings on risk-management-related topics will be done at the Risk Oversight Committee. The work of the Risk Steering Committee helps inform which risks are reported to the Board of Directors and to Board Committees. (For a description of the Risk Steering Committees activities, see below.) The full Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing significant acquisitions and other large scale capital expenditures. One of the criteria we use when evaluating acquisition opportunities is whether the transaction aligns with our mission, strategy, and values, including our Impact focus. In addition, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the disclosure in our Annual Report, which includes Impact disclosures, and our auditors review of our Impact disclosures, and our Compensation Committee oversees our talent and employee development programs including our policies and strategies regarding diversity and inclusion. One member of our Board of Directors is experienced in sustainability accounting practices and is a Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) FSA Credential Holder. Information about Etsys Board of Directors and its Committees, including their charters and membership, is available in the Governance section of our investor relations website. Managements role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities Our Executive Team, including our CEO and CFO, review our environmental goals annually. Our CFO approves material capital expenditures, including those related to climate-related issues, such as renewable energy projects, and investments in verified emissions reductions. Oversight of climate risk at Etsy is supported by the Risk Steering Committee, a cross-functional management team which includes our CEO and CFO. This Committee meets at least quarterly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy and its deliberations inform the risk management-related topics elevated to the Board of Directors and the Board Committees. Etsys Sustainability team, led by the Senior Director of Impact and Sustainability (the I&S Sr. Director), oversees Etsys sustainability strategy and implementation, which includes climate impacts. The I&S Sr. Director reports to the GM, International and VP, Marketplace Initiatives, who reports to the Chief Operating and Marketing Officer, who is the Executive Sponsor for Etsys Impact strategy. The I&S Sr. Director presents progress on environmental metrics each quarter to the Senior Leadership Team, including the CEO and CFO. Etsy also has three cross-functional Impact Working Groups that all meet at least quarterly to manage the implementation of Impact projects and reporting. 38 Table of Contents Strategy Climate-related risks and opportunities identified & impact on strategy Etsys climate strategy is informed by periodic identification and prioritization of climate-related risks and opportunities. To date, while we have identified relevant climate risks, we have not identified any climate-related risks which are reasonably expected to have a material short-term impact on financial or strategic business operations. We believe that this is largely due to the Etsy marketplaces business model, the wide geographic distribution of our seller and buyer base, and our long-standing work to mitigate climate risks. However, due to the systemic nature of climate change and its intensifying global impacts, we are continuing to monitor and manage both climate-related risks and opportunities. The following disclosures highlight the climate-related impacts identified for the Etsy marketplace, as well as the ways in which our ESG strategy seeks to mitigate risks and leverage opportunities. We define short-term impacts as those expected to occur within 0-2 years, medium-term impacts as those expected to occur within 2-5 years, and long-term impacts as those expected to occur after 5 or more years. Etsy, Inc.s Impact goal-setting process considers these climate-related impacts. Identified Climate Opportunities & Management Response Class Opportunity Description Horizon Management Response Energy Source The availability of renewable energy mechanisms presents opportunities to reduce our exposure to fossil fuel price increases and reduce operating costs. Short-Term 100% Renewable Electricity Through our 15-year Virtual Power Purchase Agreement (VPPA), international renewable energy credits, and on-site solar arrays, in 2023 we powered our Etsy marketplace offices and remote workers, as well as our Etsy marketplaces Google Cloud computing with renewable energy. Given continued elevated energy costs in 2023, Etsy made more from its U.S.-based VPPA settlements than it paid the developer, effectively reducing electricity costs for our U.S. offices. We intend to continue to source our electricity from renewable sources through a mix of onsite renewables, utility contracts, and our VPPA. Resource Efficiency Reducing resource use across our facilities offers opportunities to reduce operating costs while strengthening employee engagement and thus improving retention. Short-Term Energy Efficiency We continue to be on track to meet our goal of a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use in Etsy marketplace offices and for computing by 2025. This has reduced the impact of fuel price increases. Our energy efficiency goals also present opportunities for our Systems Architect, Sustainability to innovate new energy efficiency tools and processes and to enhance brand value through vendor partnerships. Zero Waste See the Zero Waste section on page 23 for more information on our waste management program. Resource Efficiency Regulatory policies that promote lower-emission modes of transport support our goals of achieving net zero, which may improve our reputation, reduce costs from carbon offsets, and help drive revenue growth. Medium-Term Low-Emissions Transport A significant portion of our Scope 3 emissions come from shipping. We recognize that decarbonization of the transportation sector presents an opportunity for us to achieve ambitious emissions reduction goals and strengthen our reputation. Our Advocacy Team advocates for national and regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector. We are especially focused on policies in the United States that aim to improve electrification infrastructure and reduce emissions from heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that are important in e-commerce logistics. Reputation Changing consumer preferences around sustainable shopping present opportunities for us to differentiate as a values-driven commerce brand. Medium-Term Customer Engagement See the Marketplace Sustainability section on page23 for an overview of the steps were taking to help sellers highlight their more sustainable items and enhance buyers ability to shop their values. Strengthening and communicating our Impact work including emissions reduction initiatives presents an opportunity to attract and retain talent and enhance investor relations. Short-Term Investors We continue to provide robust ESG disclosures for investors, which we believe well positions us to respond to expanded and standardized ESG reporting expectations. 39 Table of Contents Identified Climate Risks & Management Response Category Class Risk Description Horizon Management Response Physical Acute Extreme weather events have the potential to: impact sellers' ability to make and/or ship items to and displace buyers, which could temporarily decrease supply and/or demand for items on our marketplaces and disrupt transit times; place our offices at risk, or negatively impact the operations of our third-party service providers. Medium- and Long- Term Seller Operations As natural disasters increase in intensity and frequency, we are finding that our sellers and buyers are correspondingly more frequently impacted. See our Helping Our Sellers Build Climate Resilience section on page 24 for more details. Etsys Operations Our Workplace and Security Team develops and implements business continuity plans through our Health, Safety, and Security program that are intended to protect our employees in the event of physical disruptions at our offices. Transition Policy and Legal/ Tech New laws and regulations could increase direct operational costs to us in the short-term while stricter environmental regulations may place new burdens on our sellers raising their costs in the medium-term. Short and Medium-Term Regulations on Etsy ESG and environmental disclosure regulations are increasing globally. We are preparing for these regulations by obtaining limited third-party assurance on our emissions data and maturing our TCFD disclosures. In addition, our cross-functional ESG Disclosure Working Group strives to stay abreast of any new disclosure regulations that are potentially relevant to our business. Where appropriate, we may stand up new working groups to better understand the regulation and develop an action plan to address any new requirements. Regulations on Sellers Our Advocacy Team works to mitigate transition risks for sellers by advocating to advance public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs. Market Increased commodity prices due to climate change may increase production costs for sellers and/ or increase our operational costs. Long-Term Commodity Markets Our analysis has indicated that the availability of commodities used by sellers, such as cotton, may face risks due to extreme weather. While we continued to analyze this risk, because our marketplace features a broad assortment of items, we do not anticipate disproportionate short-term impacts on our business. We purchase carbon offsets to cover Etsy, Inc.s quantified annual emissions. Our research shows that under lower emissions scenarios, the price of carbon offsets is expected to increase dramatically. We mitigate this risk through multi-year off-take agreements while focusing on emissions reduction in line with our Net Zero target. Reputation External stakeholder expectations may shift, raising questions about our current impact efforts Failure to meet employee expectations on Impact could affect recruitment, retention, and engagement of top talent. Medium-Term External Perceptions We continue to focus on aligning our Impact and Sustainability efforts with our business strategy to drive business value. Employee Perceptions We track how employees view Etsys role in driving Impact and whether they believe Etsy is meeting expectations. Through our aforementioned efforts, we aim to ensure the gap between expectations and reality remains narrow. Resilience of strategy across different climate-related scenarios Over the past few years, we have worked with two external vendors to assess current climate-related impacts and understand how they might change under different temperature pathways over time. In 2021, we conducted a qualitative scenario analysis in key markets across Etsy marketplaces operations and marketplace activities while in 2022 and 2023 we conducted more quantitative scenario analysis focused on physical risks to our U.S. business and key partners. As part of these analyses, exposure pathways were mapped to prioritized climate-related issues based on the Etsy marketplaces business model, data availability, and internal stakeholder input. We used a range of representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios, with the lowest emissions scenario being RCP2.6 and the highest emission scenario being RCP8.5, as well as models and reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Available climate scenario inputs and results were then collated and overlaid with the Etsy marketplaces seller and buyer information in the United States and United Kingdom as well as key partner locations, allowing the analysis to pinpoint areas of concern. Through this analysis we found that many key geographies are expected to face some degree of climate risk under different scenarios. However, because the Etsy marketplaces buyer and seller base is distributed globally, we do not expect physical climate risks in any one geography to disproportionately impact the business under any scenario in the short to medium-term. In addition, we believe our strategy, articulated above, will help us reduce transition risks associated with a 2 degree or lower scenario. We aim to continue improving our data collection and analysis on these topics to improve our understanding of long-term climate-related risks, quantify opportunities and, if necessary, update our strategic planning. 40 Table of Contents Risk Management Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Our climate risk identification and assessment process is integrated into our company-wide risk management. We use a mix of consultant support, third-party physical risk modeling, and public data to ground our research and risk analysis. Once a risk is identified, our Sustainability Team, including the I&S Sr. Director and the Sustainability Manager, engage relevant internal risk owners to evaluate the risk, assess existing controls, and, when necessary, escalate for oversight by senior management through Etsys Risk Steering Committee (see Governance in this section above for more detail). For example, the Sustainability Team collaborates with the Advocacy Team to review climate policy proposals at the U.S. federal and state level and in key non-U.S. jurisdictions that might impact Etsy, with the Analytics Team to monitor natural disaster impacts on buyers and sellers, and with the Sourcing Team to review climate-related risks within our supplier base. Processes for managing climate-related risks The Sustainability Team works cross-functionally to develop management plans to address potential climate-related impacts. They develop and propose updates to environmental goals on an annual basis, including goals designed to mitigate climate risks, which are reviewed and approved by our Executive Team. For example, our goal to source 100% renewable electricity for office operations and computing load, which was achieved for 2020 through 2023, reduces our exposure to carbon pricing and volatile energy prices. The Sustainability Team developed the goal, proposed short-term targets and strategies to measure and reach those targets, and solicited approval from the Executive Team, who ensured resources were provisioned and lines of accountability were appropriately set. Processes for integrating climate-related risks into the overall risk management At Etsy marketplace, climate-related risks are managed as part of ESG risk and are seen as both underlying drivers of other types of risks as well as standalone risks. These risks, as well as their drivers, are monitored by the Sustainability Team. The I&S Sr. Director provides a written status update on potential ESG risks to Etsys Risk Steering Committee typically quarterly. The work of the Risk Steering Committee helps inform which risks are reported to the Board of Directors. Metrics and Targets Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with strategy and risk management process We monitor metrics related to our public environmental targets including total energy consumed, renewable energy percent, grid electricity percent, Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions including product shipments, packaging, end-user energy use, water, and outgoing waste material streams. For a historical view of our metrics, please view pages 33-37 of this Annual Report. Internally, we track a number of additional climate-related metrics. For example, in 2023 we offset carbon emissions across our quantified Scope 1, 2, and 3 categories, which effectively acts as an internal price on our emissions. To this end, we track the annual carbon offset costs, offset cost savings from specific emissions reduction activities, and carbon offset price projections for the voluntary carbon market. Related to natural disasters, we track GMS impacts from FEMA designated natural disasters as well as the percentage of our sellers and buyers in regions exposed to extreme weather events. For all of our employees, compensation is tied to our financial performance, as well as individual contributions. While responsibility for delivering on our Impact goals is distributed across the Company, each goal owner is responsible for incorporating work associated with advancing their goal into team members individual goals, which are considered when making compensation decisions. Members of our Executive Team also serve as executive sponsors for specific Impact goals to help ensure teams stay on track and have the value of executive leadership as plans are executed. For more information on our Executive Teams goals, please see our Proxy Statement. Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks Please view pages 21-22 and 33-37 of this Annual Report for our GHG Emissions Summary. Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets We have five climate-related targets: science-based emissions reduction, carbon offset commitment, renewable energy, total energy use, and waste. Details of these targets including actions taken as part of our efforts to achieve them and performance against each can be found on pages 21-23 of this Annual Report. 41 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), and file or furnish reports, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. We also share certain workforce metrics, such as our most recent consolidated EEO-1 report, information derived from our most recent seller census, our annual Transparency Report, and our external facing policies, including our governance policies and guidelines, privacy policy and marketplace rules on our investor relations website. Information contained on or accessible through our websites or other websites referenced in this Annual Report is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites in this Annual Report are intended to be inactive textual references only. You should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, by sending an email to ir@etsy.com, or by calling (347) 382-7582. Our SEC reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. 42 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. In addition, factors other than those discussed below or in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC also could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report. For more information, see the Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Operational Risks Related to Our Business While we have experienced rapid growth in our business in the past, our revenue growth rate and financial performance have fluctuated, which makes it difficult to predict the extent of demand for our services or the products sold in our marketplaces. During 2020 and 2021, we experienced rapid growth in our business, in the number of buyers and sellers, and purchase frequency. While our revenue growth continued more modestly in 2022 and 2023, our GMS declined slightly for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 and again declined slightly for the year ended December 31, 2023 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Our business may continue to be impacted by macroeconomic factors beyond our control such as inflation, rising interest rates, disruptions to the banking industry, potential recessionary factors, foreign exchange rate volatility, changing consumer shopping preferences, continued pressure on consumer discretionary product spending, global geopolitical uncertainties, supply-chain disruptions, an increasingly competitive retail environment, and employment levels, among others (collectively, Macroeconomic Conditions). Even if our revenue continues to grow, we may not be able to maintain profitability in the future. Our costs have and may continue to increase as we continue to invest in the development of our marketplaces, including our services and technological enhancements, and as we increase our marketing efforts and expand our operations. Further, the growth of our business places significant demands on our management team and pressure to expand our operational, compliance, payments, and financial infrastructure. For example, we may need to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial, compliance, payments, and management controls and enhance our reporting systems and procedures to support our recent and any future growth. If we do not continue to grow our business or manage our growth effectively, the increases in our cash operating expenses could outpace any increases in our revenue and our business could be harmed. For example, in December 2023, we implemented a Restructuring Plan, which was intended to reduce our operating expenses. In addition, our revenue may decline and our revenue growth rate has and may continue to decelerate for a number of reasons, including as a result of Macroeconomic Conditions and other factors described elsewhere in these Risk Factors. For further information, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsResults of OperationsRevenue. You should not rely on prior periods as an indication of our future performance. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. Creating trusted brands is one of the key elements of our strategy. We are focused on ensuring that our marketplaces embody our mission and values, and that we deliver trust and reliability throughout the buyer and seller experiences. Our reputation and brands depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain trustworthy marketplaces, and also upon our sellers, the quality of their offerings, their adherence to our policies, and their ability to deliver a trusted purchasing experience. We view the trustworthiness and reliability of our marketplaces, as well as the connections we foster in our buyer/seller communities, to be cornerstones of our business and key to our success. Many things could undermine these cornerstones, such as: a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our guiding principles and mission; an inability to gain the trust of prospective buyers; disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, privacy or data security incidents, website outages, payment disruptions, or other incidents that impact the reliability of our platforms; lack of awareness of, or adherence to, our policies by our communities or confusion about how they are applied; a failure to enforce our policies effectively, consistently, and transparently, including, for example, by allowing the repeated widespread listing of prohibited items in our marketplaces; 43 Table of Contents changes to our policies or fees that members of our communities perceive as inconsistent with their best interests or our mission, or that are not clearly articulated; complaints or negative publicity about us, our platforms, or our policies and guidelines, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; inadequacies in our House Rules, policies, and other terms of use; frequent product launches, updates, and experiments that could deteriorate member trust and/or engagement; or inadequate or unsatisfactory customer service experiences, failure to adequately respond to feedback from our communities, or inability of our sellers to fulfill their orders in accordance with our policies, their own shop-specific policies, or buyer expectations. We are and may continue to be an attractive target to bad actors and fraudsters targeting our marketplaces and our communities, civil litigants, and those seeking to enforce alleged intellectual property rights and/or alleged contractual rights. Additionally, there have been and may continue to be attempts to misrepresent or mischaracterize us or our marketplaces, such as on social media, or via individual or coordinated campaigns. We may not be successful in defending against these types of tactics which, if successful, could damage our brands and our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these types of claims, we may be required to spend significant resources in those efforts which may distract our management and otherwise negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the recent increased scrutiny and regulation of marketplace platforms, though principally focused on other larger platforms, has and may continue to create burdens on both Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. This may lead to increased risks that shift more quickly than our policies, enforcement mechanisms, and systems can react. We continue to evolve our marketplaces and invest to improve our customer experience. If our efforts are unsuccessful, or if our customer service platforms or our trust and safety program fail to meet legal requirements or buyers and sellers expectations, we may need to invest significant additional resources. If we are unable to maintain trusted brands and marketplaces, our ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers could be harmed. Our business, financial performance, and growth depends on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. Our financial performance, specifically our GMS, revenue, and Adjusted EBITDA, has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in attracting and retaining active buyers and active sellers and increasing their engagement. We believe that many new buyers and sellers find us by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing buyers and sellers. If existing buyers do not find our platforms appealing, for example, because of a negative experience, lack of competitive shipping costs, delayed shipping times, inadequate customer service, lack of buyer-friendly features, declining interest in the goods offered by our sellers, or other factors, they may make fewer purchases and they may not refer others to us. Likewise, if existing sellers are dissatisfied with their experience on our platforms, or feel they have more attractive alternatives, they may stop listing items in our marketplaces and using our services and may stop referring others to us, which could negatively impact our financial performance. In addition, our GMS and revenue are concentrated in our most active buyers and sellers. The COVID-19 pandemic fueled an unprecedented increase in the growth of active buyers, and the number of active buyers remains significantly above pre-pandemic levels. If we lose a significant number of buyers or sellers, or our buyers or sellers do not maintain their level of activity, for any reason, including due to the pressure on or shifts in consumer discretionary spending, increased seller fees, our financial performance and growth could be harmed. Even if we are able to attract new buyers and sellers to replace the ones that we lose, we may not be able to do so at comparable levels, they may not maintain the same level of activity, and the GMS and revenue generated from new buyers and sellers may not be as high as the GMS and revenue generated from the ones who leave, or reduce their activity level on, our marketplaces. If we are unable to attract and retain buyers and sellers, or our buyers or sellers do not maintain their level of activity, our business, financial performance, and growth could be harmed. Additionally, the demand for the goods listed in our marketplaces is dependent on consumer preferences and available discretionary spending, which can and do change quickly and may differ across generations, genders, and cultures. If demand for the goods that our sellers offer declines, or if demand for goods falls and is not replaced by demand in new or different categories, we may not be able to attract and retain buyers and our business could be harmed. Further, a shift in trends away from unique or vintage goods, socially-conscious consumerism, second-hand fashion, or specialty items such as musical instruments, could also make it more difficult to attract new buyers and sellers. Under any of these circumstances, we may have difficulty attracting new buyers and sellers without incurring additional expense. We rely on our sellers to provide a fulfilling experience to our buyers. A small portion of buyers complain to us about their experience on our platforms. As a pure marketplace, our sellers manage their shops, certain shop policies, products and product descriptions, shipping, and returns. As a result, we do not have the ability to control important aspects of buyers experiences on our platforms. For example, a buyer may report that they have not received the items that they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by a seller, or that a seller has not been 44 Table of Contents responsive to their questions. While we have introduced new ways to protect buyers, negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints, or any associated enforcement action taken against sellers, could reduce our ability to attract and retain our sellers and buyers or damage our reputation. Similarly, we rely on sellers to be responsive to buyers and to fulfill orders from buyers. Anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to our buyers could harm our sellers. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of our sellers, such as interruptions in order or payment processing, interruptions in sellers supply chains, transportation disruptions, customs delays, natural disasters, inclement weather, terrorism, public health crises, political unrest or geopolitical conflict. Additionally, popular or trending sellers may experience an influx of orders that may be beyond their ability to fulfill in a timely manner. While we have procedures designed to mitigate spikes in orders, we cannot guarantee those procedures will be effective. If buyers have a negative purchase experience, whether due to service interruptions or other reasons, or if sellers are unable to timely fulfill their orders from buyers, our reputation could be harmed. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for our sellers and buyers are inadequate could damage our reputation, and reduce our sellers willingness to sell and buyers willingness to shop on our marketplaces. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse our buyers for their purchases to help avoid harm to our reputation. For example, we offer Etsy Purchase Protection, a program that refunds buyers when a qualifying order is not received, is not as described, or arrives late or damaged. While we cover the reimbursement for qualifying orders under Etsy Purchase Protection, we also take steps to cover certain reimbursements that do not relate to qualified orders, such as requiring reserves from some sellers based on indications they may not be able to fulfill orders and other factors. Our cost to refund qualifying orders may exceed our expectations, and despite our efforts, we are not always, and in the future may not be, able to recover the funds we expend for reimbursements unrelated to qualified orders, both of which could impact our financial performance. When we do recover funds used to reimburse buyers from sellers, it may increase general seller dissatisfaction and reduce their desire to continue selling using our platforms. Although we are focused on enhancing customer service, our efforts may be unsuccessful and our sellers and buyers may be disappointed in their experience and not return. As our marketplaces grow, our controls over fraud and policy violations are important to maintaining user trust, but they may not be adequate and may not be sufficient to keep up with quickly-shifting techniques used by those attempting to undertake fraudulent activity on our platforms. We take action against sellers who we are aware may have violated our policies, and in recent periods the volume of enforcement actions against sellers for such violations has increased. However, our actions may be insufficient, may not be timely, and may not be effective in creating a good purchase experience for our buyers or avoiding negative publicity. While we regularly update our processes for handling complaints and detecting policy violations, these processes are by their nature imperfect in a dynamic marketplace, and include risk to us, our sellers, and our buyers from both under-enforcement and over-enforcement. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate, which could cause significant stock price fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results, as well as our key metrics, may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: fluctuations in GMS or revenue, including as a result of uncertainty or changing spending patterns resulting from Macroeconomic Conditions, the seasonality of market transactions, and our sellers use of services; uncertainty regarding overall levels of consumer spending and e-commerce generally; our success in attracting and retaining sellers and buyers; our ability to convert marketplace visits into sales for our sellers; the amount and timing of our operating expenses and the success of any cost-reduction activities; our success in executing on our strategy and the impact of any changes in our strategy; the timing and success of product launches, including new services and features we may introduce; the success of our marketing efforts; the success of our House of Brands strategy; disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, such as privacy or data security breaches, errors in our software, or other incidents that impact the availability, reliability, or performance of our platforms; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments; the impact of the Restructuring Plan approved in December 2023; our ability to manage our business and future growth; and 45 Table of Contents our ability to recruit and retain employees. Our business may continue to be impacted by Macroeconomic Conditions, which may adversely affect us or the third-parties on whom we rely. If the equity and credit markets deteriorate, it may make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult to obtain in a timely manner, or on favorable terms, more costly, or more dilutive. Increased inflation rates can adversely affect us by increasing our costs, including labor and employee benefit costs. In addition, higher inflation and macroeconomic turmoil and uncertainty could also adversely affect our buyers and sellers, which could reduce demand for the products sold in our marketplaces. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, key metrics, and the price of our common stock may be particularly pronounced in the current economic environment due to the uncertainty caused by the Macroeconomic Conditions and changes in consumer spending patterns. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results and key metrics may cause those results to fall below our financial guidance or other projections, or the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuations in our results could also cause a number of other problems. For example, analysts or investors might change their models for valuing our common stock, we could experience short-term liquidity issues, our ability to retain or attract key personnel may diminish, and other unanticipated issues may arise. We believe that our quarterly operating results and key metrics may vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or any other period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our guidance includes forward-looking statements based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are based on information known when they are issued, and, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies relating to our business, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which may prove incorrect and/or may change. Some of those key assumptions include the timing and impact of broad Macroeconomic Conditions, particularly in our core markets, and the resulting impact of these factors on future consumer spending patterns and our business. These assumptions are inherently difficult to predict, particularly in the long-term. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed but are not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. Furthermore, analysts and investors may develop and publish their own projections of our business, which may form a consensus about our future performance. Our actual business results may vary significantly from such guidance or consensus due to Macroeconomic Conditions or other factors, many of which are outside of our control, which could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Furthermore, if we make downward revisions of our previously announced guidance, or if our publicly announced guidance of future operating results fails to meet expectations of securities analysts, investors, or other interested parties, the price of our common stock could decline. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature and guidance offered in periods of significant extreme uncertainty is inherently more speculative in nature than guidance offered in periods of relative stability. It can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. Any failure to successfully implement our operating strategy or the occurrence of any of the events or circumstances described elsewhere in these Risk Factors could result in the actual operating results being different from our guidance, and the differences may be adverse and material. We track certain operational metrics with internal systems and tools or manual processes and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of these metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may adversely affect our business and reputation. We track certain operational metrics, including active buyers and active sellers, GMS, GMS from specific categories of goods or classes of buyers or sellers or specific platforms, and other information about our communities, with internal systems and tools or manual processes and these metrics are not independently verified by a third-party. The methodologies used to measure certain of these metrics require significant judgment, are susceptible to errors, and may differ from estimates or metrics published by third-parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the assumptions on which we rely. We also use surveys to collect and track information about our buyers and sellers and rely on third-party data, which we do not independently verify, to evaluate and report on our opportunity. Our internal systems, tools, and processes have a number of limitations, and our surveys or data collection methodologies may have errors or could change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. Similarly, our third-party data sources have in the past and may in the 46 Table of Contents future revise the historical data provided as a result of adjustments to their prior estimates or for other reasons. If the internal systems and tools, processes, or surveys we use to track these metrics under count or over count performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our metrics, there are inherent challenges in measuring this data. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure or obtain from third-parties may affect our understanding of certain details of our business or our opportunity, which could affect our long-term strategies. If our operating metrics are not accurate, or if investors do not perceive them to be accurate, investors may lose confidence in our operating metrics and business, and we expect that we could be subject to legal claims, and our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we experience a technology disruption or failure that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about members of our communities or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against software and hardware vulnerabilities, service interruptions, cyber-related events, ransomware, security incidents, or other security breaches, then members of our communities may curtail use of our platforms, we may be exposed to liability or incur additional expenses, and our reputation might suffer. Like all online services, we are vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures, and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, intentional or accidental actions or inaction by employees or others with authorized access to our networks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, malicious or destructive code, malware, ransomware attacks, and other cyber attacks, breaches and security incidents. We regularly experience cyber-related events that may result in technology disruptions and/or security breaches, including intentional, inadvertent, or social engineering breaches occurring through Etsy or third-party service provider technical issues, vulnerabilities, or employees. Any of these occurrences could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of one or more of our platforms, loss of data, unauthorized disclosure of personal or financial information of our members or employees, or theft of our intellectual property or user data. Furthermore, if our employees or employees of our third-party service providers fail to comply with our internal security policies and practices, member or employee data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. Additionally, employees or service providers have and may inadvertently misconfigure resources or misdirect certain communications in manners that may lead to security incidents, which could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. As we continue to grow our business, expand internationally, and gain greater public visibility, we may continue to face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber attacks. Although we have integrated a variety of processes, technologies, and controls to assist in our efforts to assess, identify, and manage material cybersecurity-related risks, these are not exhaustive, and we cannot assure that they will be adequate to prevent or detect service interruption, system failure, data loss or theft, or other material adverse consequences, directly or through our vendors. Additionally, these measures have not always been in the past, and in the future may not be, sufficient to prevent or detect a cyber attack, system failure, or security breach particularly given the increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers, state actors, organized cyber criminals, and cyber terrorists. The costs and effort to respond to a security breach and/or to mitigate any security vulnerabilities that may be identified could be significant, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, and these problems could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, negative publicity, and other harm to our business and our competitive position. We could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices in response to a security breach or related regulatory actions or litigation, which would have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, the industry has generally moved to online remote infrastructure for core work and, as a result, we and our partners may be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event that impacted our employees ability to work remotely were to occur, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to operate our business for a substantial period of time. The increase in remote working for employees, vendors, or contractors may also result in increased consumer privacy, IT security, and fraud concerns or increased administrative costs. A successful cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. Because the techniques used by hackers change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, because any investigation of a cybersecurity incident would be inherently unpredictable, the extent of a particular cybersecurity incident and the path of investigating the incident may not be immediately clear. It may take a significant amount of time before an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, and communication to the public, regulators, members of our communities, and other stakeholders may be inaccurate or incomplete, any or all of which could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident. Applicable rules regarding how to respond, required notices to users, and reporting to regulators and investors vary by jurisdiction, and may subject Etsy to additional liability and reputational harm. If we experience, or are perceived to experience, security breaches that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or the loss, compromise or unauthorized disclosure of personal data or other sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches that we may experience, or are perceived to do so, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. Existing sellers and buyers may also stop listing new items 47 Table of Contents for sale, decrease their purchases, or close their accounts altogether. We could also face damage to our reputation, potential liability, regulatory investigations in multiple jurisdictions, and costly remediation efforts and litigation, which may not be adequately covered by, and which may impact our future access to, insurance. Any of these results could harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors. The software underlying our platforms is highly interconnected and complex and may contain undetected errors or vulnerabilities, some of which may only be discovered after the code has been released. We rely heavily on a software engineering practice known as continuous deployment, meaning that we frequently release software code to our platforms. For the Etsy marketplace platform we typically release software code many times per day. This practice may result in the more frequent introduction of errors or vulnerabilities into the software underlying our platforms, which can impact the user experience and functionality of our marketplaces. Additionally, due to the interconnected nature of the software underlying our platforms, updates to parts of our code, third-party and open source code, and application programming interfaces, on which we rely and that maintain the functionality of our marketplaces and business, could have an unintended impact on other sections of our code, which may result in errors or vulnerabilities to our platforms that negatively impact the user experience, functionality or accessibility of our marketplaces. In some cases, such as our mobile apps, errors may only be correctable through updates distributed through slower, third-party mechanisms, such as app stores, and may need to comply with third-party policies and procedures to be made available, which may add additional delays due to app review and user delay in updating their mobile apps. In addition, our systems are increasingly reliant on artificial intelligence, machine learning systems, and large language models, which are complex, subject to increasing litigation and regulatory scrutiny, and may have errors or inadequacies that are not easily detectable. These systems may inadvertently reduce our efficiency, or may cause unintentional or unexpected outputs that are incorrect, do not match our business goals, do not comply with our policies or applicable legal requirements, or otherwise are inconsistent with our brands, guiding principles, and mission. Any errors or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could also result in damage to our reputation, loss of members of our communities, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our growth prospects and our business. We rely on Google Cloud for a substantial portion of the computing, storage, data processing, networking, and other services for the Etsy Marketplace. A significant disruption of or interference with our use of Google Cloud would negatively impact our operations and seriously harm our business. Google Cloud provides a distributed computing infrastructure as a service platform for the Etsy marketplaces business operations. We have migrated the Etsy marketplaces primary production environment and data centers to Google Cloud, increasing our reliance on cloud infrastructure. Any transition of the cloud services currently provided by Google Cloud to another cloud provider would be difficult to implement and would cause us to incur significant time and expense. Our products and services rely in significant part on continued access to, and the continued stability, reliability, and flexibility of Google Cloud. Any significant disruption of, or interference with, our use of Google Cloud would negatively impact our operations, and our business would be seriously harmed. In addition, if hosting costs increase over time and if we require more computing or storage capacity, our costs could increase disproportionately. If we are unable to grow our revenues faster than the cost of utilizing the services of Google or similar providers, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Reverb and Depop rely on Amazon Web Services for their primary production environment, and those marketplaces are thus subject to analogous risks. Our business depends on third-party services and technology which we utilize to maintain and scale the technology underlying our platforms and our business operations. Our business operations depend upon a number of third-party service providers, such as cloud service providers, marketing platforms and providers, payments and shipping providers, contingent labor teams, and network and mobile infrastructure providers. Any disruption in the services provided by third-parties, any failure on their part to deliver their services in accordance with our scale and expectations, or any failure on our part to maintain appropriate oversight on these third-party providers during the course of our engagement with them, or appropriate redundancies, could significantly harm our business. Our production systems rely on internal technology, along with cloud services and software provided by our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain). In the event of a cyber-related incident, even partial unavailability of our production systems could impair our ability to serve our customers, manage transactions, or operate our marketplaces. We have implemented disaster recovery mechanisms, including systems to back up key data and production systems, but these systems may be inadequate or incomplete. For example, these disaster recovery systems may be susceptible to cyber-related events if insufficiently distributed across locations, not sufficiently separated from primary systems, not comprehensive, or not at a scale sufficient to replace our primary systems. Insufficient production and disaster recovery systems could, in the event of a cyber-related incident, harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. Cyber attacks aimed at disrupting our and our third-party service providers services regularly occur, and we expect they will continue to occur in the future. If we or our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain) experience any cyber attacks or other security breaches or incidents that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or loss, compromise or unauthorized disclosure or use of personal data or other sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches or incidents that we may experience, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. 48 Table of Contents We also rely on the security practices of our third-party service providers, which may be outside of our direct control. Additionally, some of our third-party service providers, such as identity verification and payment processing providers, regularly have access to payment card information and other confidential and sensitive member data. We may have contractual and regulatory obligations to supervise the security and privacy practices of our third-party service providers. Despite our best efforts, if these third-parties fail to adhere to adequate security practices, or, as has occurred from time to time in the past, experience a cyber-related event or attack such as a breach of their networks, our members data may be rendered unavailable, improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. More generally, our third-party service providers may not have adequate security and privacy controls, may not properly exercise their compliance, regulatory or notification requirements, including as to personal data, or may not have the resources to properly respond to an incident. Many of our service providers continue to operate in a partial or fully remote work environment and may, as a result, be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Consequently, a security incident at any of such service providers or others in our supply chain could result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive or personal data of our buyers or sellers. We are unable to exercise significant oversight over some of these providers, which increases our vulnerability to their financial conditions and to problems with the services they provide, such as technical failures, deprecation of key services, privacy and/or security concerns, and we have from time to time experienced such problems with the services provided by one or more third-parties. Our efforts to update our infrastructure or supply chain may not be successful as we may not sufficiently distribute our risk across providers or geographies or our efforts to do so may take longer than anticipated. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or supply chain or do not expand our technology infrastructure or supply chain successfully, then our ability to run our marketplaces could be significantly impacted, which could harm our business. In addition, our sellers rely on continued and unimpeded access to postal services and shipping carriers to deliver their goods reliably and timely to buyers. Our sellers have at times experienced transportation service disruptions and delays in the delivery of their goods. If these shipping delays continue or worsen, or if shipping rates increase significantly, our sellers may have increased costs, and/or our buyers may have a poor purchasing experience and may lose trust in our marketplaces, which could negatively impact our business, financial performance, and growth. Our business depends on access to third-party services, platforms and infrastructure that are critical to the successful operation of our business. Our sellers and buyers rely on access to the internet or mobile networks to access our marketplaces. We also depend on widely-adopted third-party platforms to reach our customers, such as popular mobile, social, search, and advertising offerings. Internet service providers may choose to disrupt or degrade access to our platforms or increase the cost of such access. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on the ability to download and use our mobile apps or deny or condition access to application programming interfaces or documentation, limiting the functionality of our products or services on the platform, including in ways that could require us to make significant changes to our marketplaces, websites, or mobile apps. If we are not able to deliver a rewarding experience on these platforms, if our or our sellers access to these platforms is limited, if the cost or terms of accessing these platforms increases or changes, or if these large platforms implement features that compete with us or our sellers, then our business may suffer. Internet service providers, mobile network operators, operating system providers and/or app stores regularly place technical and policy restrictions on applications and platforms that use their services, which restrictions change over time. They have also and could in the future attempt to charge us for, or restrict our ability to access or provide access to, certain platforms, features, or functionality that we use in our business, and such changes may adversely affect our marketplaces. In addition, the success of our marketplaces has at times and could in the future also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as actions taken by providers of mobile and desktop operating systems, social networks, or search and advertising platforms, including: policy changes that interfere with, add tolls or costs to, or otherwise limit our ability to provide users with a full experience of our platforms, such as for our mobile apps or social network presence, including policy changes that effectively require us to use the providers payment processing or other services for transactions on the providers operating system, network, or platform; unfavorable treatment received by our platforms, especially as compared to competing platforms, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs to distribute or use our platforms via mobile apps, social networks, or established search and advertising systems; changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps, our understanding of the data and usage related to our services, or that give preferential treatment to competitive products; changes to social networks that degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of our services or our sellers shops and products; or 49 Table of Contents implementation and interpretation of regulatory or industry standards by these widely adopted platforms that, as a side effect, degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of our services or our sellers shops and products. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. Our payments systems have both operational and compliance risks, including in-house execution risk and dependency on third-party providers. The payment offerings provided on each of our marketplaces differ and, as such, are subject to varying degrees and types of risk. In particular, each payment offering has a different level of reliance on third-parties to perform certain aspects of its services. We have and plan to continue to invest in our payments tools and infrastructure, and have, or may in the future, add or change payment tools and third-party service providers to maintain existing availability, expand into additional markets, and offer new payment methods, offerings, and tools to our buyers and sellers. If we fail to invest adequate resources into our payments platforms, or if our investment efforts are unsuccessful or unreliable, our payments services may not function properly, keep pace with competitive offerings, or comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements, any of which could negatively impact their usage and our marketplaces, as well as our trusted brands, which, in turn, could adversely affect our GMS and results of operations. We rely upon third-party service providers to perform key components of our payments platforms, including payments processing and payments disbursing, compliance, currency exchange, identity verification, sanctions screening, tax collection, and fraud analysis. Failure by these service providers to perform adequately, or changes to or termination of our relationships with these service providers, has and could again negatively affect our sellers ability to receive payments. For example, in the first quarter of 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, one of our payment disbursement providers, collapsed and, as a result, approximately 0.5% of our active sellers experienced a delay (generally one business day) receiving their payments while we engineered a new process flow to enable those sellers to receive payments from another disbursement account. Disruptions related to our third-party service providers could also potentially affect our sellers ability to receive orders, our buyers ability to complete purchases, and our ability to operate our payments program, including maintaining certain compliance measures, including fraud prevention and detection tools. This could decrease revenue, increase costs, lead to potential legal liability, and negatively impact our brands and business. If we (or a third-party payment processor) suffer a security breach affecting payment card information, we could be subjected to fines, penalties, and assessments arising out of the major card brands rules and regulations, contractual indemnification obligations or other obligations contained in merchant agreements and similar contracts, and we may lose our ability to accept payment cards as payment for our services and our sellers goods and services. In addition, we and our third-party service providers may experience service outages from time to time that negatively impact payments on our platforms. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, such payments-related service outages and, if we are unable to promptly remedy or provide an alternative payment solution, our business could be harmed. In addition, if our third-party providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses, or those of our sellers, could increase, and it could negatively impact our sellers businesses or our business. Further, our ability to expand our payments services into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support these services. As we continue to expand the availability of our payments services to additional markets or offer new payment methods to our sellers and buyers in the future, we, along with our sellers may become subject to additional and evolving regulations, compliance requirements, and may be exposed to heightened operational and fraud risk, which could lead to an increase in our operating expenses. Our payments systems are subject to a complex landscape of evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards. Various laws and regulations govern payments, and these laws are complex, evolving, and subject to change and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. Moreover, even in regions where such laws have been harmonized, regulatory interpretations of such laws may differ. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort determining whether various licensing and registration laws relating to payments apply to us as our business strategy and operations evolve. In addition, our payments activities and/or applicable laws and regulations may evolve over time to require licensure in one or more of our core regions. Should one of our subsidiaries become licensed as a financial services provider in any jurisdiction, we would be subject to additional regulation and oversight of that subsidiary. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, result in liabilities, cause us significant reputational damage, or force us to stop offering our payments services in certain markets. Additionally, changes in payment regulation may occur that could render our payments systems non-compliant and/or less profitable. Further, through our agreements with our third-party payments service providers, we are subject to evolving rules and certification requirements (including, for example, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), and other contractual requirements or expectations that may materially negatively impact our payments business. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements could impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations with our third-party payment processors and could result in potential fines or negatively impact our relationship with our third-party payments processors. 50 Table of Contents We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements, including as a result of a change in our designation by major payment card providers, could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply and could require a change in our business operations. In addition, similar to a potential increase in costs from third-party providers described above, any increased costs associated with compliance with payment card association rules or payment card provider rules could lead to increased fees for us or our sellers, which may negatively impact payments on our platforms, usage of our payments services, and our marketplaces. Our business could be adversely affected by economic downturns, inflation, natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, geopolitical events, or other macroeconomic conditions, which have in the past and may in the future negatively impact our business and financial performance. Macroeconomic Conditions have and may continue to adversely affect our business. If general economic conditions deteriorate in the United States or other markets where we operate, consumer discretionary product spending may decline and demand for the goods and services available on our platforms may be reduced. This would cause our Marketplace and Services revenue to decline and adversely impact our business. Global economic conditions have also generated pressure on consumer discretionary product spending. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the goods that we offer, generally decline during recessionary periods or periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. Factors that could further affect consumers willingness to make discretionary purchases include, among others: high levels of unemployment; higher consumer debt levels; global geopolitical uncertainties; reductions in net worth, declines in asset values, disruptions to the banking industry, and related market and macroeconomic uncertainty; home foreclosures and reductions in home values; fluctuating interest rates, increased inflationary pressures and lack of credit availability; rising fuel and energy costs; rising commodity prices; and other general uncertainty regarding the overall future political and economic environment. It is difficult to predict how our business might be impacted by changing consumer spending patterns. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, significant inflation, or increased supply chain disruptions impacting our communities of sellers and the economy as a whole, consumer spending habits could be materially and adversely affected, as could our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to execute and capitalize on our strategies. If trends supporting self-employment, and the desire for supplemental income were to reverse, the number of sellers offering their goods in our marketplaces and the number of goods listed in our marketplaces could decline. In addition, currency exchange rates may directly and indirectly impact our business. If the U.S. dollar strengthens or weakens against foreign currencies, particularly if there is short-term volatility, our foreign currency denominated GMS and revenue, when translated into U.S. dollars, could fluctuate significantly. Currency exchange rates may also impact demand for cross-border purchases, which could impact GMS and revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2023, approximately 71% of our GMS was denominated in U.S. dollars. Any events causing significant disruption or distraction to the public or to our workforce, or impacting overall macroeconomic conditions, such as natural disasters and other adverse weather and climate conditions, public health crises, supply chain disruptions, political instability or crises, terrorist attacks, war, social unrest, or other unexpected events, could disrupt our operations, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers. These events may also impact buyer demand for discretionary goods, impact sellers ability to run their businesses on our marketplaces and ship their goods, and impact our ability to execute on our strategy, any of which could negatively impact our business and financial performance. The global scope of our business subjects us to risks associated with operations abroad. Doing business outside of the United States subjects us to increased risks and burdens such as: complying with different (and sometimes conflicting) laws and regulatory standards (particularly including those related to the use and disclosure of personal information, online payments and money transmission, intellectual property, product liability, consumer protection, online platform liability, e-commerce marketplace regulation, labor and employment laws, business practices, including those related to corporate social responsibility, and taxation of income, goods, and services) sometimes with attempts to apply these laws and regulatory standards extra-territorially; defending our marketplaces against international litigation, including in jurisdictions that may not offer judicial norms or protections similar to those found in the United States; conforming to local business or cultural norms; barriers to international trade, such as tariffs, customs, or other taxes, or, when applicable, cross-border limits placed on U.S. technology companies; uncertainties around the continuing impact on operations of supply chain disruptions and geopolitical events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorism, and acts of war; varying levels of internet, e-commerce, and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; 51 Table of Contents potentially heightened risk of fraudulent or other illegal transactions; limitations on the repatriation of funds; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and export control laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; our ability to enforce contracts, our terms of use and policies, and intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; fluctuations of foreign exchange rates; and uncertainties and instability in U.K. and E.U. markets caused by ongoing negotiations of cross-border service agreements triggered by Brexit. Our sellers face similar risks in conducting their businesses across borders. Even if we are successful in managing the risks of conducting our business across borders, if our sellers are not, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to recruit and retain a diverse group of employees and retain key employees is important to our success. Significant attrition or turnover could impact our ability to grow our business. Our ability to attract, retain, and motivate a diverse group of employees, including our management team, is important to our success. We strive to attract, retain, and motivate employees who share our dedication to our communities and our mission to Keep Commerce Human. We cannot guarantee we will be able to continue to attract and retain the number or caliber of employees we need to maintain our competitive position, particularly given the uncertainty of the current macroeconomic environment, and in light of the reduction in force as part of the Restructuring Plan approved in December 2023. While we made progress towards our impact goal of building a diverse and inclusive workforce that is broadly representative of our communities, we were not able to meet our target of doubling the percentage of U.S. employees at the Etsy marketplace who identify as Black, Latinx, or Native American by year end 2023 and recently extended the target year to 2025, which could impact our ability to attract and retain employees. Some of the challenges we face in attracting and retaining employees include: skepticism regarding our ability to accelerate GMS growth in the future; continuing ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, including stock-based compensation and programs to support the well-being of our employees, as more external scrutiny is placed on stock-based compensation expenses and the legal landscape in the United States evolves; competition for talent in our industry, which could cause payroll costs, including stock-based compensation, to become a larger percentage of our total cost base; evolving expectations regarding the ability to work remotely; enhancing engagement levels among existing employees and supporting their work-life balance; attracting high quality talent in a timely fashion; retaining qualified employees who support our mission and guiding principles, and continuing to do so in our hybrid work environment; continuing to find promotion opportunities to retain key employees for leadership positions; hiring employees in multiple locations globally, and building a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workforce; and responding to competitive pressures and changing business conditions in ways that do not divert us from our guiding principles. Filling key strategic roles, including engineering and product management, can be challenging at times, particularly for more specialized positions. Qualified individuals may be limited and in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract, develop, retain and motivate them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, people with suitable technical skills may choose not to join us or to continue to work for us. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. The value of our stock awards in a volatile macroeconomic environment may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. 52 Table of Contents We operate in a hybrid work model in which a significant percentage of our workforce remains remote while others have returned to our offices with a flexible schedule. It is possible that these arrangements could have a negative impact on our workplace culture and on the execution of our business plans and operations. We have recently revised and clarified our work modes to reinforce our workplace culture and optimize the natural creativity and innovation that arises from live cross-functional and team gatherings in our offices. If our needs are not aligned with our employees preferences, or if we are unsuccessful in optimizing our hybrid work environment, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. If we continue to operate with a significant portion of our employees located outside of our offices, and we are unable to adapt to new hybrid work modes, it could negatively impact our company culture. In general, our employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees, such as our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Technology Officer, or unsuccessful succession planning, could adversely affect our business. Further, if members of our management and other key personnel in critical functions across our organization are unable to perform their duties, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy and/or our operations may be negatively impacted. Other companies, including our competitors, may be successful in recruiting and hiring our employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or on competitive terms. If we experience increased voluntary attrition in the future, and/or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees in a timely fashion or on reasonable terms, particularly in critical areas of operations such as engineering, we may not achieve our strategic goals and our business and operations could be harmed. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and patent laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. We also rely on trade secret protection for parts of our technology and intellectual property. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. We generally do not elect to register our copyrights, relying instead on the laws protecting unregistered intellectual property, which may not be sufficient. We rely on both registered and unregistered trademarks, which may not always be comprehensive in scope. In addition, our copyrights and trademarks, whether or not registered, and patents may be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged, and may be of limited territorial reach. While we have obtained or applied for patent protection with respect to some of our intellectual property, patent filings may not be adequate alone to protect our intellectual property, and may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Additionally, it is expensive to maintain these rights, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, and the time and cost required to defend such rights, if necessary, could be substantial. From time to time, we acquire intellectual property from third-parties, but these acquired assets, like our internally developed intellectual property, may lapse, be abandoned, be challenged or circumvented by others, be held invalid, be unenforceable, or may otherwise not be effective in protecting our platforms. In addition, we may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and authorized uses may not have the intended effect. Even when we do detect violations, enforcing our rights may require us to engage in litigation, use of takedowns and similar procedures, or licensing. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our managements attention. In addition, our efforts may be met with defenses and counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are unable to adequately prevent unauthorized use or misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and customers may lose trust in Etsy. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property and confidential information in part through confidentiality, non-disclosure, and invention assignment agreements with employees, advisors, service providers and other third-parties who develop intellectual property on our behalf, or with whom we share information. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has developed intellectual property on our behalf or that has or may have had access to our confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property. These agreements may also be breached, or may not effectively prevent unauthorized use, disclosure, or misappropriation of our confidential information or intellectual property. Moreover, these agreements may not provide an adequate remedy for breaches or in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information or infringement of our intellectual property. The legal framework surrounding protection of intellectual property changes frequently throughout the world, particularly as to technologies used in e-commerce, and these changes may impact our ability to protect our intellectual property and defend against third-party claims. If we are unable to cost-effectively protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be harmed. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to a variety of tax and tax collection obligations in the United States and in numerous other foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense, including indirect taxes, based on current tax payments and our estimates of future tax payments, which may include reserves for estimates of probable or likely settlements of tax audits. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including tax collection obligations, due to changes in tax law, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted laws or 53 Table of Contents administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, such as digital services taxes or online sales taxes, targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These include new obligations to withhold or collect sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result in liability for third-party obligations. For example, several jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader international tax reform is implemented. Our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected by additional taxes imposed on us prospectively or retroactively.We may also be subject to increased requirements for marketplaces to report, collect, remit, and hold liability for their customers direct and indirect tax obligations, as a result of changes to regulations, administrative practices, outcomes of court cases, and changes to the global tax framework. Over the last several years, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has been developing its two pillar project to address the tax challenges arising from digitalization. The OECD project, if broadly implemented by participating countries, will result in significant changes to the international taxation system under which our current tax obligations are determined. The second pillar of the project (Pillar Two) calls for a minimum tax rate on corporations of 15% and is expected to be implemented by a significant number of countries starting in 2024. The OECD and implementing countries are expected to continue to make further revisions to the rules, however, we expect adverse consequences to our tax liabilities based on rules as currently drafted. We will continue to monitor developments to determine any potential impact of Pillar Two in the countries in which we operate. Our effective tax rate and cash taxes paid in a given financial statement period may be adversely impacted by results of our business operations including changes in the mix of revenue among different jurisdictions, acquisitions, investments, entry into new geographies, the relative amount of foreign earnings, changes in foreign currency exchanges rates, changes in our stock price, intercompany transactions, changes to accounting rules, expectation of future profits, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our assessment of their realizability, and changes to our ownership or capital structure. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of our business, there are numerous transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax positions and related provisions reflected in the financial statements are fully supportable, we recognize that these tax positions and related provisions may be challenged by various tax authorities. These tax positions and related provisions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted as additional facts and information become available, including progress on tax audits, changes in interpretation of tax laws, developments in case law, and closing of statute of limitations. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, our effective tax rate can be adversely affected. The (provision) benefit for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, projected levels of taxable income and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and raise issues regarding filing positions, timing and amount of income and deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. Any adjustments as a result of any examination may result in additional taxes or penalties against us. If the ultimate result of these audits differs from original or adjusted estimates, they could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. At any one time, we typically have multiple tax years subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. As a result, we could be subject to higher than anticipated tax liabilities as well as ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as audits close and exposures are re-evaluated. The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. We do not currently have any outstanding borrowings under our credit facility. While the indentures governing our outstanding convertible notes do not include material restrictions on our ability to pursue our business strategy, our credit facility requires us to comply with, and future debt instruments may require us to comply with, various covenants that limit our ability to take actions such as: disposing of assets; completing mergers or acquisitions; incurring additional indebtedness; encumbering our properties or assets; paying dividends, making other distributions or repurchasing our common stock; making specified investments; and engaging in transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. If we default under our credit facility and if the default is not cured or waived, the lenders could terminate their commitments to lend to us and cause any amounts outstanding to be payable immediately. Such a default could also result in cross defaults under other debt instruments. Moreover, any such default would limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. Our insurance may not cover or mitigate all the risks facing our business. While we have insurance coverage for many aspects of our business risk, this insurance coverage may be incomplete or inadequate, or in some cases may not be available. Our business has evolving risks that may be unpredictable. We cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage, including coverage for cyber events and errors and omissions, will continue to be 54 Table of Contents available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to all or part of any future claim or loss. For certain risks we face, we may be required to, or may elect to, self-insure or rely on insurance held by third-parties, legal defenses and immunities, indemnification agreements or limits on liability, which may be insufficient. For example, we may not have adequate insurance coverage related to the actions of sellers on our platforms or for security incidents or data breaches. In evolving areas such as platform products liability, court decisions suggest that different jurisdictions may take differing positions on the scope of e-commerce platform liability for seller products. In some circumstances, a platform might be held liable for violations of applicable legal regimes by sellers and their products, such as intellectual property laws, privacy and security laws, product regulation, or consumer protection laws. Court decisions and regulatory changes in these areas may shift quickly, both in the United States and worldwide, and our insurance may be inadequate or unavailable to protect us from existing or newly developing legal risks. Finally, while some sellers on our platforms may be insured for some or all of these risks, many small businesses do not carry any or sufficient insurance, and, even if a seller is insured, the insurance may not cover the relevant loss. These factors may lead to increased costs for insurance, our increased liability, increased liability or requirements on sellers on our platforms, changes to our marketplaces or business model, or other damage to our brands and reputation. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Operating e-commerce marketplaces is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. We face competition from a wide range of online and offline competitors on both sides of our two-sided marketplace, which connects buyers and sellers to facilitate transactions. We compete for sellers with marketplaces, retailers, social media commerce, and companies that sell software and services to small businesses. For example, in addition to listing her goods for sale on the Etsy or other House of Brands marketplaces, a seller can list her goods with online retailers or sell her goods through local consignment and vintage stores, as well as other venues or marketplaces, or through commerce channels on social networks. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover her goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling a seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platforms, or enabling her to sell through multiple channels. Additionally, Reverb offers integrations with these and other companies to help sellers integrate their inventory across channels and otherwise power their businesses. Changes in the terms of those companies could make it more difficult or expensive for sellers to sell on Reverb. We compete to attract, engage, and retain sellers based on many factors, including: the value, awareness, and perception of our brands; our investments in product and marketing for the benefit or our sellers; the effectiveness of our scaled member support and trust and safety practices and policies; the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence; our tools, education, and services, which support a seller in running her business; the number and engagement of buyers; our policies and fees; the ability of a seller to scale her business; the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the strength of our communities; and our mission. We also face competition on the buyer side from both online and offline competitors. We compete with both online and offline retailers for the attention of buyers who have the choice of shopping with any online or offline retailer, including large e-commerce marketplaces, national retail chains, local consignment and vintage stores, social commerce channels, event-driven platforms and vertical experiences, resale commerce and streaming video commerce sites and apps, and other venues or marketplaces. Many of these companies offer low-cost or free shipping, fast shipping times, favorable return policies, and other features that may be difficult or impossible for our sellers to match. 55 Table of Contents We compete to attract, engage, and retain buyers based on many factors, including: the breadth and quality of items that sellers list in our marketplaces; the ease of finding items; the value and awareness of our brands; the effectiveness of our marketing; the person-to-person commerce experience; customer service; our reputation for trustworthiness; the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the availability of timely, fair, and free shipping offered by sellers to buyers; ease of payment; localization and experiences targeted based on regional preferences, and the availability and reliability of our platforms. We also compete for media placements, including with retailers competing for the attention of our buyers, and increased competition can impact the cost we pay for media placements, including in dynamic auctions. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, better name recognition, or more customers than we do. They may invest more to develop and promote their services than we do, and they may offer lower fees to sellers than we do. Large, widely adopted platforms may benefit from significant user bases, access to user or industry-wide data, the ability to unilaterally set policies and standards, and control over complementary services such as fulfillment, advertising or on-platform apps or e-commerce transactions. To the extent Etsy and our sellers may rely on these competitors services, such services may be integrated into site functionality, and these competitors may have access to substantial data about Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. As a result, they may be able to reduce our ability to service our users, reduce our ability to obtain analytics or information to optimize advertising or intentionally seek to disintermediate Etsy. Local companies or more established companies based in markets where we operate outside of the United States may also have a better understanding of local customs, providing them a competitive advantage. For example, in certain markets outside the United States, we compete with smaller, but similar, local online marketplaces with a focus on unique goods that are attempting to attract sellers and buyers in those markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to expend significant resources in response to our competitors actions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Maintaining and promoting awareness of our marketplaces and services is important to our ability to attract and retain sellers and buyers. One of the key parts of our strategy for the Etsy marketplace is to bring new buyers to the marketplace, reactivate lapsed buyers, and create more habitual buyers by inspiring more frequent purchases across multiple categories and purchase occasions. We continue to iterate on and invest in our marketing strategies for each of our marketplaces, which may not succeed for a variety of reasons, including our inability to execute and implement our plans. Our digital marketing efforts currently include, among others, search engine optimization, search engine marketing, affiliate marketing, and display advertising, as well as social media, mobile push notifications, and email marketing. If we fail to scale and deliver an effective return on investment in any of these marketing efforts, it may harm our business. We also engage with celebrities and influencers as part of our marketing efforts, and our perceived affiliation with these individuals could cause us brand or reputational damage in the event they are perceived to be or take actions inconsistent with our brands and values. Additionally, we invest significantly in brand advertising via channels such as television and digital video advertising. If we do not produce effective content or purchase effective air time and placement for that content, it could fail to deliver a return on our investment, and damage our brands and/or business. Many of our marketing efforts include our sellers and products from their shops selected via automated systems. These automated systems may not always operate effectively. While both our manual and automated systems have tools and procedures designed to account for our and our partners policies, despite our best efforts, we may inadvertently include in our marketing efforts sellers or their products inconsistent with our policies, brands, and 56 Table of Contents values, which could result in failure to deliver a return on our investment, media or regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our brands and/or business. We obtain a significant number of visits via search engines such as Google. Search engines frequently change the algorithms that determine the ranking and display of results of a users search, alter analytics or search engine optimization data available to us or make other changes to the way results are displayed, which periodically negatively affects the placement of links to our marketplaces and reduces the number of visits or otherwise negatively impacts our marketing efforts. We also obtain a significant number of visits from social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and Pinterest. Search engines, social networks, and other third-parties typically require compliance with their policies and procedures, which may be subject to change or new interpretation with limited ability to negotiate, which from time to time negatively impacts our marketing capabilities (including marketing services for our sellers), GMS, and revenue. Etsy-provided controls for users to limit third-party advertising features, the growing use of online ad-blocking software and technological changes to browsers and mobile operating systems that, for example, limit access to usage information for advertisers like Etsy, impact the effectiveness of, or our visibility and insights into, our marketing efforts. As a result, we may fail to bring more buyers, or fail to increase frequency of visits, to our platforms. In addition, ongoing legal and regulatory changes in the data privacy, social media and technology spheres in U.S. states and countries throughout the world and the interpretation of these laws by major search, social, and operating system providers may impact the scope and effectiveness of marketing and advertising services generally, including those used on our platforms. We also obtain a significant number of visits through email marketing. If we are unable to successfully deliver emails to our sellers and buyers, if our email subscription tools do not function correctly, or if our sellers and buyers do not open our emails, whether by choice, because those emails are marked as low priority or spam, or for other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. As e-commerce, search, and social networking, as well as related regulatory regimes, evolve, we must continue to evolve our marketing tactics and technology accordingly and, if we are unable to do so, our business could be adversely affected. Some providers of consumer devices, mobile or desktop operating systems, and web browsers have implemented, or have announced plans to implement, ways to block cookies and similar online tracking technologies which, if widely adopted, could also result in online tracking methods becoming significantly less effective. Similarly, our vendors, particularly those providing advertising and analytics products and services have, and may continue to, modify their products and services based on legal and technical changes relating to privacy in ways that could reduce the efficiency of our marketing efforts and our access to data about use of our platforms. Any reduction in our ability to make effective use of such technologies could harm our ability to personalize the experience of buyers, increase our costs, and limit our ability to attract and retain our sellers and buyers on cost-effective terms. As a result, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Enforcement of our marketplace policies may negatively impact our brands, reputation, and/or our financial performance. We maintain and enforce policies that outline expectations for users while they engage with our services, whether as a seller, a buyer, or a third-party. Additionally, we prohibit a range of items on our marketplaces, including (but not limited to): drugs, alcohol, tobacco, weapons, endangered animal products, hazardous materials, recalled items or those that create an unreasonable risk of harm, highly-regulated items, items violating intellectual property rights of others, illegal products, pornography, items from sanctioned jurisdictions, hateful content, and items that promote or glorify violence. We maintain and enforce these policies in order to uphold the safety and integrity of our marketplaces, engender trust in the use of our services, and encourage positive connections among members of our communities. We strive to enforce these policies in a consistent and principled manner that is transparent and explicable to stakeholders. However, even with a principled and objective approach, this work involves a combination of human judgment and technological and manual review. As a result, there could be errors or disagreement with our policy determinations, policy enforcement could be subject to different, inconsistent, or conflicting regional consensus or regulatory standards in different jurisdictions, and our policy decisions could be perceived to be arbitrary, unfair, unclear, or inconsistent. Similarly, the tools and processes in place at the other marketplaces that make up our House of Brands portfolio are not as sophisticated or mature as those used by the Etsy marketplace. Shortcomings and errors in our policy enforcement across our marketplaces could lead to negative public perception, distrust from our members, or lack of confidence in the use of our services, and could negatively impact the reputation of our brands. In particular, certain enforcement decisions, even those we deem necessary for the health and safety of our marketplaces, may be received negatively by stakeholders or the public, such as: we may choose to limit or prohibit the sale of items in our marketplaces based on our policies, even though we could benefit financially from the sale of those items; and from time to time, we may revise our policies in ways that we believe will enhance trust in our platforms, even though the changes may be perceived unfavorably, such as updates to the way we define handmade. 57 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully execute on our business strategy or if our strategy proves to be ineffective, our business, financial performance, and growth could be adversely affected. Our ability to execute our strategy is dependent on a number of factors, including the ability of our senior management team and key team leaders to execute the strategy, our ability to iterate in a rapidly evolving e-commerce landscape, maintain our pace of product experiments coupled with the success of such initiatives, our ability to meet the changing needs of our sellers and buyers, and the ability of our employees to perform at a high level. If we are unable to execute our strategy, including our recent efforts to reduce our operating expenses, if our strategy does not drive the growth that we anticipate, if the public perception is that we are not executing on our strategy, or if our market opportunity is not as large as we have estimated, it could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. For more information on our strategy, see Part I, Item 1, "BusinessOverviewOur Strategy." If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes and enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new service and product introductions, and changing customer demands and preferences, and we are not able to predict the effect of these changes on our business. The technologies that we currently use to support our platforms may become inadequate or obsolete, and the cost of incorporating new technologies into our products and services may be substantial. Our sellers and buyers, however, may not be satisfied with our enhancements or new offerings or may perceive that these offerings do not respond to their needs or create value for them. Additionally, as we invest in and experiment with new offerings or changes to our platforms, our sellers and buyers may find these changes to be disruptive and may perceive them negatively. In addition, developing new services and features is complex, and the timetable for public launch is difficult to predict and may vary from our historic experience. As a result, the introduction of new offerings may occur after anticipated release dates, or they may be introduced as pilot programs, which may not be continued for various reasons. In addition, new offerings may not be successful due to defects or errors, negative publicity, or our failure to market them effectively. New offerings may not drive GMS or revenue growth, may require substantial investment and planning, and may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. If we do not continue to cost-effectively develop new offerings that satisfy sellers and buyers, then our competitive position and growth prospects may be harmed. In addition, new offerings may not drive the GMS or revenue that we anticipate, may have lower margins than we anticipate or than existing offerings, and our revenue from the new offerings may not be enough to offset the cost of developing and maintaining them, which could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. Continuing to expand our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and the growth of our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. We are focused on growing our business both inside and outside of the United States. Operating outside of the United States requires significant management attention, including managing operations and people over diverse geographic areas with varying cultural norms and customs, and adapting our platforms and business operations to local markets. Although we have a significant number of sellers and buyers outside of the United States, we are a U.S.-based company with less experience developing local markets internationally and may not execute our strategy successfully. For example, as previously announced, in light of challenges we faced to effectively scale Elo7 in Brazil over the last two years, particularly given headwinds created by the local macroeconomic environment, we sold our interest in Elo7 in August 2023. In addition, while Etsy has a vibrant community of sellers in India, in late 2023 we decided to focus on bringing them potential sales through cross-border, global transactions and enabling them to reach global buyers outside of India and to deprioritize developing a domestic marketplace in India. An inability to develop our communities globally or to otherwise grow our business outside of the United States in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our GMS, revenue, and operating results. Our ability to grow our international operations may be adversely affected by any circumstances that reduce or hinder cross-border trade. For example, the shipping of goods cross-border is typically more expensive and slower than domestic shipping and often involves complex customs and duty inspections and may be dependent on national postal carrier systems. If jurisdictions become increasingly fragmented, with additional regulation of small sellers and platforms, tariffs, certifications, representative requirements, and customs requirements that increase the cost or complexity of cross-border trade, whether on the sellers sourcing of materials or between the seller and buyer, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, our international growth strategy may be adversely affected by geopolitical events or public health crises like the COVID-19 pandemic that result in closures, delayed or terminated delivery services, or movement restrictions outside the United States. Despite our execution efforts, the goods that sellers list on our Etsy and Reverb marketplaces may not appeal to non-U.S. consumers in the same way as they do to consumers in the United States. In addition, non-U.S. buyers are not as familiar with the Etsy and Reverb brands as buyers in the United States and may not perceive us as relevant or trustworthy. Also, visits to our Etsy and Reverb marketplaces from buyers outside the United States may not convert into sales as often as visits from within the United States, including due to the impact of a strong U.S. dollar relative to other currencies and the fact that most of the goods 58 Table of Contents listed on these platforms are denominated in U.S. dollars. Similarly, non-U.K. consumers may be less familiar with Depop than consumers in the United Kingdom, which may make it challenging to expand into new markets. Competition is likely to intensify in markets outside of the United States, both where we operate now and where we plan to expand. Local companies based outside the United States may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, their local markets, along with regulations that may favor local companies. Some of our competitors may also be able to develop and grow internationally more quickly than we will. Continuing international expansion may also require significant financial investment. To facilitate continued international expansion, we plan to continue investing in buyer and seller upper, mid and lower funnel marketing and enhancing the localization of the Etsy site experience (through machine translation, search optimization, and local carrier and payment methods) to help sellers and buyers transact even if they are not in the same country and/or do not speak the same language. We may engage in forming relationships with third-party service providers to support operations in multiple countries, and potentially acquire additional companies based outside the United States to integrate them into our operations. Our investment outside of the United States may be more costly than we expect or unsuccessful. We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and other long-lived tangible and intangible assets, and may incur further impairment charges in the future, which would negatively impact our operating results. In the quarter ended June 30, 2023, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $68.1 million to write-off property and equipment and intangible assets in full for Elo7. In addition, in the quarter ended September 30, 2022, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $897.9 million and $147.1 million to write-off goodwill in full for Depop and Elo7, respectively. Impairments have resulted from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, challenges applying our technological, marketing, and operational expertise to help scale the acquired brands marketplaces in a profitable, efficient, and effective manner, and a variety of other factors. We review goodwill and other long-term assets quarterly to assess if indicators of impairment arise, including the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions, a rise in the risk-free long-term interest rates, or a decline in our results of operations. The result of such review may indicate a decline in the fair value of goodwill and other long-term tangible and intangible assets requiring additional impairment charges. In the event we are required to record an additional non-cash impairment charge to our goodwill, other intangibles, and/or long-lived assets, such a non-cash charge could have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Balance Sheets in the reporting period in which we record the charge. For additional information, see Part II, Item 8, Note 7Goodwill and Intangible Assets and Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates and PoliciesValuation of Goodwill. We may expand our business through additional acquisitions of other businesses or assets or strategic partnerships and investments, which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We have acquired businesses in the past and may acquire additional businesses or technologies, or enter into strategic partnerships, in the future. We have not always been able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, and may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of possible future acquisitions or partnerships, and such relationships may disrupt our business and divert managements time and attention. In addition, integrating an acquired business or technology is risky and may require significant time and attention from our management team and workforce. Any acquisitions or partnerships may result in unforeseen operational difficulties and expenditures associated with: integrating new businesses and technologies into our infrastructure; clearing any required regulatory review that may be complex, costly, time-consuming, or place additional requirements on the business; implementing growth initiatives; integrating administrative functions; hiring, retaining, and integrating key employees; supporting and enhancing morale and culture; retaining key customers, merchants, vendors, and other key business partners; maintaining or developing controls, procedures, and policies (including effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure