Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating and Financial Metrics for the definitions of the following terms used in this Annual Report: active buyer, active seller, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA margin, GMS, GMS ex-U.S. Domestic, U.S. Buyer GMS, and currency-neutral GMS growth. Etsy has used, and intends to continue using, its investor relations website and the Etsy News Blog (etsy.com/news) to disclose material non-public information and to comply with its disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, you should monitor our investor relations website and the Etsy News Blog in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to our mission, our opportunity and potential to grow; the impact of our Right to Win and other growth strategies, including marketing and product initiatives, investments, and other levers for growth, on our business and operating results, including future gross merchandise sales (GMS) and revenue growth; our ability to attract, engage, and retain buyers and sellers; strategic investments or acquisitions, product and marketing investments, and the potential benefits thereof; our impact goals, strategy, and intended progress; the impact of global macroeconomic, domestic and geopolitical uncertainty and volatility may have on our business, strategy, operating results, key metrics, financial condition, profitability, and cash flows; the effects on consumer behavior from cultural, weather, and political events; our ability to expand beyond our top geographies; and uncertainty regarding and changes in overall levels of consumer spending and e-commerce generally. Forward-looking statements include all statements that are not historical facts. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terms such as aim, anticipate, believe, could, enable, estimate, expect, goal, intend, may, plan, potential, project, seek, should, target, will, would, or similar expressions and derivative forms and/or negatives of those terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Other factors may cause our actual results, performance, or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. Those risks include those described in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Given these uncertainties, you should read this Annual Report in its entirety and not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report. In addition, statements that we believe and similar statements reflect our beliefs and opinions on the relevant subject. These statements are based upon information available to us as of the date of this Annual Report and, although we believe such information forms a reasonable basis for such statements, such information may be limited or incomplete, and our statements should not be read to indicate that we have conducted an exhaustive inquiry into, or review of, all potentially available relevant information. These statements are inherently uncertain, and investors are cautioned not to unduly rely upon these statements. Moreover, we operate in a competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all risks and uncertainties that could have an impact on the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report. In light of these risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, the future events and trends discussed in this Annual Report may not occur, and actual results could differ materially and adversely from those anticipated or implied in the forward-looking statements. In addition, the global economic climate and general market, political, economic, and business conditions may amplify many of these risks. Forward-looking statements represent our beliefs and assumptions only as of the date of this Annual Report. We disclaim any obligation to update forward-looking statements. Summary Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. The following summary highlights some of the risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities. This summary is not complete and the risks summarized below are not the only risks we face. You should review and consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described in more detail in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, which includes a more complete discussion of the risks summarized below as well as a discussion of other risks related to our business and an investment in our common stock. Financial Performance and Operational Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results have and may continue to fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, which can cause significant stock price fluctuations. We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. Our business, financial performance, and growth depend on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. We track certain operational metrics with internal systems and tools or manual processes, and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of these metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may adversely affect our business and reputation. If we experience a technology disruption that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about members of our communities or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against software and hardware vulnerabilities, service interruptions, cyber-related events, ransomware, security incidents, or other security breaches, then members of our communities may curtail use of our platforms, we may be exposed to liability or incur additional expenses, and our reputation might suffer. Our business depends on continued use of and unimpeded access to third-party technology, services, platforms, and infrastructure that we rely upon to maintain and scale our platform. If the widely adopted mobile, social, search, and/or advertising solutions that we, our sellers, and our buyers rely on as part of our key offering are no longer available or effective, or if access to these major platforms is limited, the use of our marketplaces could decline. Our payments systems have both operational and compliance risks, including in-house execution risk, dependency on third-party providers, and a complex landscape of evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards. Our ability to recruit and retain a talented and broadly diverse group of employees and retain key employees is important to our success. Significant attrition or turnover could impact our ability to grow our business. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Enforcement of our marketplace policies may negatively impact our brands, reputation, and/or our financial performance. If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes, and enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. Continuing to expand our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and other long-lived tangible and intangible assets, and may incur further impairment charges in the future, which would negatively impact our operating results. We may engage in acquisitions, dispositions, or strategic partnerships which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We are subject to risks related to our environmental, social, and governance activities and disclosures. We have a significant amount of convertible debt and may incur additional debt in the future. Regulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks Failure to deal effectively with fraud or other illegal activity could harm our business. Compliance with evolving global legal and regulatory requirements and/or available safe harbors, including privacy and data protection laws, tax laws, product liability laws, laws regulating speech and platform monitoring or moderation, antitrust laws, intellectual property and counterfeiting regulations, may materially impact our time, resources, and ability to grow our business. We are regularly involved in litigation, arbitration, and regulatory matters that are expensive and time consuming and that may require changes to our strategy, the features of our marketplaces and/or how our business operates. We may be subject to intellectual property or other claims, which, even if meritless, could be extremely costly to defend, damage our brands, require us to pay significant damages, and limit our ability to use certain technologies or business strategies in the future. Other Risks Future sales and issuances of our common stock or rights to purchase common stock, including upon conversion of our convertible notes, could result in additional dilution to our stockholders and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Table of Contents PART I - Financial Information Item 1. Business. Overview Our Mission Etsys mission to Keep Commerce Human is rooted in our belief that, although automation and commoditization are parts of modern life, human creativity cannot be automated and human connection cannot be commoditized. We believe consumers increasingly expect more from the businesses they support, and companies that prioritize people, the planet, and profit will be best positioned to succeed over the long term. We are committed to sustainable growth by aligning our mission with our business strategy, fostering economic impact through entrepreneurship. You can read more about Etsys Impact and environmental, social, and governance (ESG) strategies beginning on page 20, where we report on metrics aligned with both our self-identified Impact priorities and widely accepted third-party frameworks. About our Company Etsy operates two-sided online marketplaces that connect millions of passionate and creative buyers and sellers around the world. These marketplaces which collectively create a House of Brands share our mission, common levers for growth, similar business models, and a strong commitment to use business and technology to strengthen communities and empower people. Our primary Etsy marketplace is the global destination for unique, creative goods from independent sellers. It connects artisans and entrepreneurs with thoughtful consumers seeking items that reflect their tastes and values. We aim to create a virtuous cycle that benefits all of our stakeholders. Ultimately, our success is tied to our sellers; we make money when they do. In addition to providing them with access to tens of millions of buyers, we offer tools and services to help sellers grow. For buyers, we surface quality listings that offer great value and provide a reliable shopping experience. When buyers are satisfied, it fuels this cycle. In addition to our core Etsy marketplace, our House of Brands consists of Reverb Holdings, Inc. (Reverb), our musical instrument marketplace acquired in 2019, and Depop Limited (Depop), our fashion resale marketplace acquired in 2021. Each Etsy, Inc. marketplace primarily operates independently, while benefiting from shared expertise in product development, marketing, technology, and customer support. On August 10, 2023, Etsy completed the sale of Elo7 Servios de Informtica S.A. (Elo7), a Brazil-based marketplace for handmade and unique items. The results of Elo7 are included in all financial and other metrics discussed in this report, unless otherwise noted, from the date of acquisition on July 2, 2021 until August 10, 2023. Our sellers generated $12.6 billion of Gross Merchandise Sales (GMS) in 2024. Of this, Etsy marketplace GMS was $10.9 billion or 86.4% of the total and the Reverb and Depop marketplaces generated approximately $917.9 million (7.3% of the total) and $788.9 million (6.3% of the total) of GMS, respectively. We anticipate that the Etsy marketplace will continue to be the primary driver of our overall financial performance for the foreseeable future. Our marketplaces collectively connected a total of 8.1 million active sellers to 95.5 million active buyers as of December 31, 2024. Our top six retail categories on the Etsy marketplace in 2024 were homewares and home furnishings, jewelry and personal accessories, apparel, craft supplies, paper and party supplies, and toys and games. These categories represented approximately $9 billion, or 87% of 2024 GMS. Reverb provides a significant presence in the market for musical instruments, and Depop enhances our apparel offering in the resale space. 1 Table of Contents Our Strategy As illustrated below, our strategy is focused around: Building a sustainable competitive advantage for the Etsy marketplace our Right to Win; Growing the Etsy marketplace in our core geographies and globally; and Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our House of Brands. Building a sustainable competitive advantage our Right to Win Our Right to Win is centered on four key elements that we believe make the Etsy marketplace a better place to shop and sell and, which, in turn, will bring more buyers, lead to increased frequency and size of purchases, and build long-term loyalty. We believe that when executed effectively, these elements can create a multiplier effect that will drive future growth. Our sellers unique items: The foundation of the Etsy marketplaces competitive advantage is our sellers millions of unique items. We have created a community that attracts, supports, and retains some of the worlds most talented makers, and sellers choose to list on our marketplace because they believe that we are a great place to start and grow a creative business. As of December 31, 2024, there were over 100 million items listed on the Etsy marketplace, and approximately 30% of our 2024 GMS was from custom or made-to-order merchandise. The unique nature of our sellers items requires that we invest in the other three elements of our strategy: search and discovery; human connections; and a trusted brand in order to deliver a best-in-class marketplace experience. Best-in-class search and discovery: We aim to enhance the search and discovery experience by showcasing the highest quality listings, unlocking the value of Etsys unique items. Since the items listed on the Etsy marketplace do not map to a catalog or a stock keeping unit (SKU), delivering world-class search and discovery technology is essential for connecting each buyer with the right product at the right time, driving satisfaction and sales. We use a combination of artificial intelligence (AI), generative artificial intelligence (Gen AI), machine learning (ML), and human curation to help organize, personalize, and streamline search, making it easier for buyers to browse, filter, and find what they want. Beyond assisting current searches, we are also investing in understanding buyers tastes and preferences to anticipate and inspire future purchases. The power of human connections:Our mission to Keep Commerce Human is a vital part of our strategy. We continue to emphasize the role that humans play in every aspect of our business. As of December 31, 2024, 89.6 million buyers and 5.6 million sellers were active on the Etsy marketplace.What sets the Etsy marketplace apart isnt just the unique items, but the stories behind them, created by real people. Etsy buyers can collaborate with sellers to personalize items, fostering genuine connections. We believe that strengthening these human connections will enable us to drive buyer engagement, loyalty, and purchase frequency, distinguishing the Etsy marketplace from other shopping destinations. A trusted brand: We remain focused on being a reliable brand that inspires trust throughout the buyer and seller journeys from discovery to delivery. Since Etsy marketplace sellers largely offer unbranded items, we aim to make the Etsy brand synonymous with an excellent end-to-end experience. Building a trusted brand requires two key elements: standing for something buyers understand and delivering a safe, efficient purchasing experience. Our goal is to bolster trust in the Etsy brand, our sellers, their items, and in the overall Etsy experience. We also aim to support sellers with services that help them comply with our policies and transact confidently on the Etsy marketplace. Growing the Etsy marketplace in our core geographies and globally We are expanding our focus beyond growing the Etsy marketplace in our historical core geographies of the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Canada, Australia, and France. We remain focused on driving frequency and retention in these markets and also see significant opportunity to increase non-U.S. buyer GMS by improving the customer experience for cross-border transactions, particularly in Western Europe. We also make strategic investments in other select geographies where we perceive growth opportunities. 2 Table of Contents In 2024, 74% of Etsy, Inc. and Etsy marketplaces GMS came from U.S. buyers and 26% came from buyers outside of the United States. Note that for 2024 we have changed our presentation of U.S. versus non-U.S. GMS disclosure to focus on buyer GMS, which we believe provides a more useful view of our success attracting buyers and driving GMS from buyers outside the United States than our prior disclosure of GMS U.S. domestic versus GMS ex-U.S. domestic. See Part II, Item 7,Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Operating and Financial Metrics for a discussion of how each of these metrics is calculated. Leveraging our marketplace playbook across our House of Brands Our House of Brands includes Etsy, Reverb, and Depop two-sided marketplaces which share values of creativity, community, and making a positive impact. We believe our marketplaces share key elements central to success, including: analytical frameworks, product experiment and measurement approaches, and operating rhythms that prioritize resource allocation towards the most impactful outcomes; sophisticated search and discovery technology; compelling on-site customer experiences; efficient payment platforms; value-added seller services, such as advertising platforms and effective shipping options; strong brand and performance marketing capabilities; and a commitment to investments that protect the marketplace. Capital Allocation Strategy Etsys overall capital allocation strategy is focused in three areas: core investments in organic growth, which includes investments in our House of Brands; selectively pursuing acquisitions of businesses or technologies that complement our marketplaces or align with our overall growth strategy; and mitigating dilution to our stockholders through stock repurchase programs that have and may continue to be authorized by our Board of Directors. In addition, in both 2023 and 2024, we increased investment in share repurchases beyond the amount required to offset the dilution created by the equity we grant to our employees as a form of compensation, and expect to continue to seek opportunities to do so as conditions warrant. To that end, in October 2024, Etsys Board of Directors approved a new $1 billion stock repurchase program. How We Make Money We see our business model as a virtuous circle: we connect sellers and buyers, enable their transactions, receive fees for our services, and reinvest in enhancing customer experiences to drive growth for Etsy and our sellers. We generate revenue primarily from marketplace activities, including transaction (inclusive of offsite advertising), payments processing, and listing fees, as well as from optional seller services, which include on-site advertising and shipping labels. For more information, see Part II, Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Components of Our Results of OperationsRevenue. Marketplace Revenue (Required fees) Transaction Fee (inclusive of Offsite Advertising Fee) Payments Processing Fee Listing Fee Other Services Revenue (Optional value-added services) On-site Advertising Shipping Labels Other 3 Table of Contents Our House of Brands Marketplaces The Etsy Marketplace Buyers come to the Etsy marketplace for meaningful, one-of-a-kind items handcrafted, handpicked, designed and sourced by our creative entrepreneurs. Etsy buyer surveys* indicate: *Above data reflects averages from monthly Etsy marketplace buyer surveys completed in 2024. Building buyer consideration by knocking down barriers and focusing on purchase occasions: Our 2024 survey data shows that, while the majority of consumers in the United States are aware of Etsy and say the brand is relevant to them and our aided brand awareness is high in key markets, there are still large gaps in unaided awareness, even for some of our top categories and occasions. Currently, the average number of purchase days for Etsys active buyers is three days per year: about half have one purchase day on Etsy per year, and the other half have approximately five purchase days per year. We believe that our sellers broad array of unique merchandise presents a strong opportunity to drive purchase frequency among both existing and potential buyers. By positioning Etsy as a destination for a wider range of purchase occasions, including those with higher stakes, we aim to drive long-term growth and market share gains. To that end, in 2024, we continued to focus on driving buyer consideration by highlighting our sellers quality listings, at great value, that we believe our sellers can deliver in a way that is both reliable and dependable. You can read more about these specific initiatives on page 8 in the Product Development section. We believe the Etsy marketplace is characterized by several unique qualities, including: Our Right to Win:As noted on page 2, the Etsy marketplace is focused on strengthening the power of our sellers unique items, our ability to develop best-in-class search and discovery, the power of human connection, and being a trusted brand. A brand that stands for Conscious Shopping: In a world of increasing automation and commoditization, Etsy is a marketplace where creativity lives and thrives because its powered by people. We help our community of sellers turn their ideas into successful businesses. Our platform connects them with millions of buyers looking for an alternativesomething special that expresses their taste and values, providing a destination for conscious shopping that supports small business. Global reach: Etsy enables cross-border transactions, allowing buyers and sellers to easily connect despite language and currency differences. Using advanced ML, we translate listings, reviews, ads, and messages. By investing in localizationsuch as browse features, local payment methods, and fulfillment partnerships in key non-U.S. marketswe work to foster a tailored experience to drive both domestic and international sales. 4 Table of Contents Organic traffic base: The unique nature of our sellers inventory and power of our brand have enabled us to organically build a loyal, global base of Etsy buyers on the platform. In 2024, the percentage of our GMS attributed to performance marketing (paid GMS) was 21%, meaning that the vast majority of our GMS comes to us organically through awareness of our brand, as well as from non-paid channels such as search, social, email, and push notifications. Connected experience across all devices: We want to engage Etsy buyers wherever they are and provide an enjoyable and accessible shopping experience regardless of the device used. Our desktop and mobile web experiences, as well as the Buy on Etsy (BOE) consumer shopping app, include search and discovery, curation, personalization, augmented reality, and social shopping features. We have made product investments designed to drive buyers to our app, which is beneficial to our conversion rate, as our mobile app has the highest conversion rate among platforms. In addition, we offer similar desktop, mobile web, and mobile app experiences to help sellers manage their shops and successfully serve buyers on Etsy. High Level Performance Recap: GMS for the Etsy marketplace declined 6% in 2024 to $10.9 billion compared to the e-commerce sector at large, which experienced growth. We attribute this underperformance to the following factors: 1) consumers spent less on discretionary categories, including the types of items we primarily sell; 2) the fact that we are not known for or do not sell certain essentials such as groceries, staples, and consumer electronics where a significant amount of e-commerce growth was concentrated; 3) pressure on certain categories, such as home and living, which represent a sizeable part of our GMS; and 4) while Etsy sellers do offer items on sale, our brand is not known for cheap or inexpensive goods, in the same way that certain major commoditized marketplaces or competitors are. These types of goods and the companies who sell them had better performance in 2024 when compared to others in e-commerce. Despite this pressure on GMS, we continued to grow our revenue through technology advancements in our Etsy Ads product line that enabled us to utilize more of our sellers advertising budgets, key investments to expand coverage of our payments platform as well as growth in international markets where transactions yield higher payments fees, the introduction of a new seller onboarding fee, and other initiatives. We believe these activities are indicative of our ability to drive value for our sellers and improve buyer experiences, while also delivering more revenue for Etsy. Etsy Marketplace Opportunity We believe the e-commerce industry continues to have significant tailwinds in terms of its long-term growth opportunity, and that this overall growth bodes well for Etsy. Global e-commerce revenue in our core markets is estimated to grow by a compounded annual growth rate of 8% through 20281, and we believe Etsy has significant potential to grow within this context. As commerce evolves, more consumers are shopping online and many are seeking unique, personalized alternatives to mass-produced goods. We believe Etsy stands out globally with its creative, handcrafted merchandise. Our future success depends on effectively showcasing this differentiationhelping buyers understand why and when to choose Etsy, the quality of our listings, and the stories behind our sellers items. By emphasizing our mission to Keep Commerce Human, we aim to deepen our connection with global consumers. By focusing on the growth strategies outlined in the Primary Business Drivers section beginning on page 8, our goal is to bring more buyers to the marketplace, and drive frequency of purchasing and the amount of spend on the Etsy marketplace. Below are several important growth opportunities for the Etsy marketplace. Capturing more of our total available market We estimate that the online market size across all relevant retail categories for the Etsy marketplace within our historical core geographic markets represents an approximately $550 billion market opportunity, and an approximately $2 trillion market opportunity when offline sales are included2. The relevant retail categories included in our estimate of total market size are apparel and footwear, personal accessories, beauty and personal care, home and garden, toys and games, pet care, craft supplies, paper and party, and art and collectibles. We believe that since our 2024 Etsy marketplace GMS represented approximately 2% of that online only portion, we have significant opportunity to gain further e-commerce market share. Since our estimated opportunity is focused on our core geographies and retail categories, additional upside to this opportunity could come from further geographic and/or category expansion for the Etsy marketplace. Driving purchase frequency As outlined above, about half of our active buyer base shops on Etsy one purchase day per year, with the other half purchasing approximately five purchase days per year. Given our broad array of quality listings, we believe Etsy should be able to drive existing and potential buyers to think of us more often for more purchase occasions, driving long-term growth and market share gains. 1 According to Euromonitor International Ltd; Passport: Retail 2024 edition, accessed January 15th, 2025; retail selling price (RSP) excluding value added tax (VAT), USD year-over-year exchange rates, current terms 2 Estimate based on the Company's own calculations and assumptions based on data from Euromonitor and other sources, without any representation or warranty from Euromonitor. 5 Table of Contents Connected to our efforts to increase purchase frequency, in 2024, Etsy focused on tapping into opportunities within the Gifting category. Given the special and unique nature of items on Etsy, we see significant opportunity to expand in the Gifting market, which we estimate represents a $200 billion3 relevant opportunity, online and offline, in the United States alone, and where we believe the Etsy marketplace has approximately 1%1,4 of that market. During the year, we launched significant new features and improvements to allow buyers (and their gift recipients) to shop for gifts and experience gifting on Etsy. We believe a focus on gifting can better connect our global buyers to the millions of unique gift items offered by our sellers and drive more frequent purchasing among buyers. Another key way we are looking to drive frequency is through investing in our BOE app, which has historically been the channel to generate the highest level of buyer lifetime value (LTV) on Etsy. In 2024, approximately 42% of Etsy marketplace GMS came from purchases completed on BOE. Continuing to expand beyond our top geographies While Etsy nearly doubled the number of active buyers on our marketplace from 2019, we continue to believe that there are millions of additional consumers globally who would be interested in unique and creative goods made by independent sellers. We estimate that approximately 30% of adults who identify as women in the United States and the United Kingdom shopped Etsy at least once in 2024, so there are many more millions of women who did not shop on Etsy during that time frame. We estimate our penetration with consumers who identify as men is much lower, with only about 10% of adult men in the United States and United Kingdom having shopped on Etsy at least once in 2024. Furthermore, when looking at the next 15 largest markets beyond the United States and United Kingdom, our penetration rate of consumers shopping on Etsy is approximately only one fifth as high as it is within the United States and United Kingdom. Etsy added a total of nearly 24 million new buyers in 2024 - which we believe is indicative of the size of the new buyer opportunity over the long term. Continuing to retain and reactivate lapsed buyers We continue to have a very large pool of over 100 million lapsed buyers to reactivate, and we expect that for the foreseeable future there will continue to be millions of buyers for us to reactivate each year. In fact, we reactivated nearly 29 million lapsed buyers in 2024. We also have a long history of healthy buyer retention and believe this trend can continue. See The Etsy Marketplace: Our Passionate and Engaged Community on page 12 for additional details. Lastly, there are many millions of visits to the Etsy marketplace each month that do not result in a purchase. We believe that continued improvements in search and discovery, and other components of our Right to Win strategy, can help us better convert visitors into buyers and infrequent buyers into loyal customers. The Reverb Marketplace Reverb, headquartered in Chicago, is a two-sided marketplace launched in 2013 with a mission to make the world more musical by making it easy to buy and sell musical instruments online. Reverb enables a thriving circular economy for music gear, connecting the music-making community with millions of used, like-new, and new musical instruments. With nearly 80% of Reverbs GMS coming from the sale of used musical instruments, Reverb helps musicians access a wide variety of music gear that fits within their budgets. In 2024, 56% of Reverbs active sellers were also buyers and this cohort spent 2.5 times more than those who only bought music gear. Reverbs buyers and sellers include musicians, local music stores, and the largest music gear brands. As of December 31, 2024, our Reverb marketplace had 785 thousand active buyers and 221 thousand active sellers. We believe that Reverb is the largest online marketplace dedicated to music gear. 86% of 2024 GMS came from U.S. buyers and 14% came from non-U.S. buyers. Reverb offers one of the largest databases of historical pricing data for music gear in the world, helping buyers and sellers better understand the value of their gear. Similar to Etsy, more than 80% of Reverbs traffic is unpaid, evidencing the strength of the Reverb brand and its large, passionate community of music makers. Over 40% of Reverbs GMS comes from its mobile app. High Level Performance Recap: In 2024, Reverbs GMS was $918 million, down 2.6% from 2023, as macroeconomic factors weighed on consumer discretionary spending. Despite these headwinds, Reverb performed slightly better than the musical instrument industry overall. Given the continued pressure on GMS, Reverb completed an approximately 18% reduction in force in September 2024. Reverbs leaner, more agile team is focused on strategic initiatives to bring more used music gear into the circular economy and make used music gear musicians first choice. Reverb improved its profitability in 2024, driven by increased paid marketing efficiency, a leaner overall cost structure, improved payment margins, and higher shipping-label adoption. 3 Based upon Etsy estimates and external sources. Online and offline categories included: clothing, jewelry and accessories, home and living, toys, personal care and beauty, gift cards, books and other media, candy, food, among others. 4 Estimated based on 2024 active buyers who marked a purchase as a gift, purchased a listing with gift in the title or entered gift in a search query during the trailing twelve month period. 6 Table of Contents In 2024, Reverb provided musicians with more options and better value by introducing the Reverb Outlet and launching a Certified Pre-Owned program with Fender, one of the worlds leading guitar manufacturers. Reverb also better highlighted affordable used and like-new gear throughout the marketplace to boost conversion. In 2024, Reverb also optimized its search algorithms to make price comparisons easier, enhanced seller tools, and drove awareness through video-first integrated marketing campaigns. Reverb Marketplace Opportunity The total available market opportunity for musical instruments is approximately $24 billion5, with Reverb having a less than 5% market share. We remain optimistic about Reverbs opportunity for future market share gains within its industry, given its broad and deep range of supply, large and loyal community, and value offered on the marketplace particularly for used music gear sales, which have continued to grow even as overall music gear sales have remained challenged. The Depop Marketplace Depop, headquartered in London, is on a mission to Make Fashion Circular. Since its founding in 2011, Depop has been a people-powered fashion marketplace where anyone can buy, sell, explore, and discover incredible secondhand fashion. Depop had approximately 43.5 million registered users, 5.1 million active buyers, and 2.3 million active sellers at December 31, 2024. Approximately 57% of Depop sellers who made a sale in 2024 also made at least one purchase in 2024, which we believe shows the strong engagement of Depops user base. Nearly 94% of Depops GMS is in the apparel category. 64% of Depops GMS came from U.S. buyers and 36% came from non-U.S. buyers. Depop is a place for anyone to discover and share their style by selling items directly from their closets and buying secondhand garments from others whose style they admire. Depops circular ecosystem extends the life of millions of garments every year, providing a more sustainable way to enjoy fashion. High Level Performance Recap: In 2024, Depops GMS was $789 million, providing a tailwind to our consolidated GMS results. Depop grew GMS by 31.6% year-over-year, with growth accelerating throughout the year on a sequential basis. We believe that, in the challenging macroeconomic environment, Depops inventory of low-cost, fashionable, resold merchandise remained highly relevant to the increasingly value-conscious consumer. This year, Depop evolved its U.K. and U.S. selling fee structure, removing the selling fee on users, and introducing a buyer marketplace fee. We believe this change has made Depop more attractive to sellers, driving a meaningful acceleration in listings in each market, since being launched. We believe that this change should drive more choice and variety for buyers, fueling a dynamic marketplace with greater power to make fashion more circular and less wasteful. Among other factors, Depops removal of seller fees, in conjunction with product enhancements and a step-up in marketing investments, drove an approximately 61% increase in U.S. buyer GMS, making Depop the fastest-growing U.S. online apparel marketplace. Etsy believes Depop is a highly relevant and authentic re-commerce brand that is still early in its growth lifecycle and plans to continue to invest accordingly. Depop continues to prioritize improving customer experiences, streamlining the listing process this year with the launch of a new Gen-AI powered tool that improves price guidance, pre-populates listing attributes using image recognition, and simplifies its "Repop" feature for easy relisting of previously purchased items. Depop Marketplace Opportunity: The global secondhand apparel market (including resale and thrifting) is forecasted to grow approximately three times faster on average than the broader global apparel market through 2028, reaching an estimated $350 billion6. We believe the growth opportunity for Depop is meaningful due to its: 1) differentiated position in the fast-growing resale space; 2) passionate and highly engaged community of buyers and sellers that advocate for the brand; 3) strong affinity with the Generation Z (Gen Z) and Millennial consumer demographics, who are adopting resale shopping faster than other demographics; and 4) significant market share opportunity in the United States (where the resale market is forecasted to grow more than six times faster than the broader retail clothing sector and reach about $44 billion by 20286) and the United Kingdom where Depop has meaningful brand awareness. 5 Music Trades Global Market for Music Products Report (As of December 31, 2023) 6 2024 ThredUp Annual Resale Report 7 Table of Contents Primary Business Drivers We leverage technology to connect people around the world through commerce. Among other things, we invest in our technology infrastructure, product development, marketing, trust and safety, member support, helping sellers grow, and fostering engaged and impactful teams as we strive to continuously improve our marketplaces. While the discussion below focuses on each of these primary drivers of the Etsy marketplace, there are similar business drivers present for our subsidiary marketplaces. Technology Infrastructure Our engineering team has built a sophisticated platform that enables millions of sellers and buyers to smoothly transact across borders, languages, and devices. This team writes, deploys, and operates the software and services that drive our business, including both web and mobile products for external and internal use. They also maintain our cloud environment, local office networks, and more. Etsy makes significant investments in areas such as foundational, data, and cybersecurity infrastructure, our payments, experimentation, advertising, machine learning and recommendations platforms, internal information technology, system architecture, and inventory, fulfillment, and search systems. We collect and analyze large volumes of data to enhance the performance of our platform, personalize search and discovery, improve our search experience, bolster trust and safety capabilities, and test features on our website. We apply a combination of proprietary and non-proprietary AI, Gen AI, and ML algorithms, as well as human curation, to personalize the search and discovery experiences and enable buyers to more easily browse, filter, and buy that perfect item, even when they may not have something specific in mind. For Search, specifically, we leverage: 1) lexical search, which matches results with the literal representation of words and phrases from a query; 2) relational search engines, which understand interactions between buyers, listings, and shops; and 3) neural information retrieval, which interprets what a buyer means even if they dont know how to describe the item. In 2024, we re-trained our search algorithms to better highlight higher-quality listings, and increase the diversity of merchandise shown, aiming to reduce the cognitive load for buyers when search results show too many similar items. We also began to focus more engineering resources toward making the BOE app the center of our customer experience. We expect to continue investing in innovative ways to leverage advanced AI, Gen AI, and ML technologies to enhance customer experiences across our platformimproving both seller and buyer experiences while strengthening our infrastructure. In addition, we maintain an agile technology infrastructure, leveraging our operations in Google Cloud to dynamically flex computing power in sync with traffic. This infrastructure aids operational efficiencies, allowing a greater portion of our engineers to spend time working on customer-facing initiatives and less time on infrastructure activities. In 2024, we continued to invest in initiatives to democratize ML across the Etsy platform, with the goal to streamline and automate ML modeling in order to allow more Etsy engineers to deploy these models in significantly less time. We deployed coding assistant technology to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our software engineers along with a Gen AI assistant for workplace productivity, and improved other work streams across our platform. Our other marketplaces Reverb and Depop also operate their marketplaces in the cloud and make similar technical development investments with Amazon Web Services (AWS). In 2024, both Reverb and Depop continued to improve their deployment of ML and tools that allow for more rapid development and experimentation. Product Development Etsys product development and engineering organization is built around the core belief that we can create connections between our sellers and buyers that are personal and fundamentally different from other platforms where you can shop or sell. Our teams are organized around a collection of initiatives that support a common strategy aligned with our Right to Win, with cross-functional teams focused on delivering engaging customer experiences that we measure by a set of objectives and key results, all meant to solve key customer friction points and elevate overall Etsy shopping missions. Historically, Etsys product development strategies often focused on product launches which are intended primarily to drive in-period conversion and incremental GMS wins, with product development squads often working in silos with short-term performance targets. In 2024, we evolved some of our investment strategies and the way we manage our teams to also identify ways to holistically look at overall customer experiences and to create more integrated product launches that we believe could, over time, drive buyer engagement and better overall consideration for Etsy. 8 Table of Contents In 2024, significant product launches included: Expanded diversity of merchandise in search results, incorporating high-quality listing indicators into our search algorithms; The Etsy Search Visibility Page to provide sellers more insights into how they appear in search; Revamped Etsy homepage, to index more heavily on inspiration; and Significant product improvements to the Gifting shopping experience and expanded marketing for this purchase occasion. Etsy also shares aspects of its product development culture and strategies with our other marketplaces. In 2024, Reverb and Depop focused on new ways to improve the customer experience and drive incremental GMS. For example, Reverb launched The Reverb Outlet and Fenders first-ever Certified Pre-Owned program, making it easier for musicians to access budget-friendly used and like-new instruments, and Depop streamlined its selling process, with a continued focus on experimentation, search and discovery, and pricing. Marketing We continue to refine our marketing strategy to reinforce our brand promise with Etsy buyers and optimize our investments through a full-funnel approach. Our two primary types of marketing investments, performance and brand - where we spent approximately $546 million and $172 million, respectively on a consolidated basis in 2024 - are discussed below. Performance marketing In 2024, the percentage of GMS attributed to performance marketing (paid GMS) for the Etsy marketplace was 21%, meaning that the vast majority of our GMS comes to us organically through awareness of our brand. Our investments in performance marketing, which we define as paid media spend related to the digital acquisition and re-engagement of buyers (for example, Google Product Listing Ads, or PLAs), adjusts according to demand and scale based on incremental return. We do not set fixed budgets for our marketing team. Our investment philosophy for performance marketing is to invest until the marginal return on investment (ROI) on the next dollar spent is below our target minimum ROI. Increases in buyer LTV, driven by visits, conversion rate, incremental revenue, and frequency, shift the return curve higher, enabling us to spend more in marketing. The vast majority of return comes in-period, although some does fall into subsequent quarters. We continue to test the effectiveness of our performance marketing and expand into new channels and geographies, and utilize new tactics. For example, in 2024, the Etsy marketplace increased investments in paid social marketing which we define as paid media spend to promote Etsy content on social media platforms such as Meta, Pinterest, and TikTok to 22% as a percentage of our performance marketing spend, up from 17% in the prior year. This allowed us to expand beyond buyers' specific queries and meet them where they are spending their time and finding inspiration for shopping, which aligns with our broader goal of enhancing discovery and inspiration for our buyers. Within our paid social, we have increased the percentage of spend in mid funnel video marketing. We also have a growing affiliate-based creator program, Creator Collective, through which influencers, buyers, and sellers are incentivized to develop Etsy content designed to drive engagement and sales, which also acts as a content engine to fuel our channels creative strategy. In 2024, we transitioned our paid-search investment, which encompasses our PLA and search engine marketing channels, in-house. We now manage all of Etsys paid-search campaigns with an internal team of subject-matter experts enabling us to reallocate the significant external costs of managing these campaigns directly back into the campaigns themselves. Offsite Ads.Offsite Ads is an innovative advertising program for Etsy marketplace sellers, where Etsys marketing spend funds the upfront costs to promote Etsy sellers listings on multiple internet platforms and takes a success fee when a sale is made. The program works as follows: when a shopper clicks on an offsite ad featuring a sellers listing and purchases from the sellers shop within 30 days of that click, the seller pays Etsy an additional transaction fee on that sale. We believe our Offsite Ads program is a win-win for Etsy and our sellers since: 1) the seller only pays a transaction fee when a sale is made; and 2) the additional fee expands Etsys LTV, as outlined above, enabling us to spend deeper for performance marketing to drive more visits to our marketplace. In 2024, revenue from the Offsite Ads program offset approximately 31% of the Etsy marketplaces performance marketing spend. Customer Relationship Management (CRM).In 2024, the Etsy marketplace continued to enhance its sophisticated CRM capabilities that enable us to segment and target our buyers for engagement on and off Etsy. We believe our CRM and mobile app push notifications are efficient tools to drive engagement with our active and lapsed buyers, as well as meaningful drivers of our strong buyer reactivation levels (which are detailed on page 17). In 2024, we introduced several key CRM features including trigger notifications that led to connected landing experiences rather than just individual listings, personalized campaigns powered by ML, and more. 9 Table of Contents Promotional events.As part of the Etsy marketplaces focus on highlighting great value, and in addition to ongoing work to elevate items our sellers offer with discounts, we held several site-wide promotional events in 2024 funded by a small allocation of Etsys marketing dollars. Brand marketing Since 2018, Etsy has leaned more heavily into upper funnel brand marketing strategies through TV, digital video, and out-of-home advertisements, such as billboards and public transportation signage, to create a flywheel designed to elevate the effectiveness of our other marketing channels. Given that many buyers primary reason for not shopping on Etsy is that they only think of us for specific items or needs, using brand advertising as a tap on the shoulder to drive buyers back to Etsy has become an important part of our marketing investments. Etsy regularly surveys buyers on brand funnel metrics such as awareness and loyalty and Etsy is a top-10 favorite website/app for online shopping in the United States, United Kingdom, and Germany. In 2024, the Etsy marketplace increased investments in Gifting, which spans multiple categories and represents a strong opportunity to boost brand consideration. Alongside several product launches related to Gifting, Etsy also ran multiple gifting-centric brand marketing campaigns. Marketing across our House of Brands Our subsidiaries also enhanced their marketing strategies in 2024. For example, Reverb continued to drive results through a video-first strategy across paid and organic channels. Depop delivered its best-ever year in paid GMS, driven by growth in performance marketing channels, ROI improvements, and the successful scaling of mid-funnel channels to broaden reach. Trust & Safety The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections between people in our community are cornerstones of our business. Our policies are designed to encourage transparency among our members by clearly outlining the rights and responsibilities of sellers and buyers participating on our platform. On the Etsy marketplace we strive to give the Etsy buyer comfort that they are purchasing goods from a shop that adheres to certain standards, which starts with our policies. In 2024, we reorganized our legacy permitted items policy into new Creativity Standards, which we believe more clearly convey the types of items that are allowed to be listed and sold on the Etsy marketplace, and better reflect the spirit of our creative inventory. The refreshed policy requires that items fall into one of the following categories: Made by a Seller, Designed by a Seller, Handpicked by a Seller, or Sourced by a seller. Etsy is an unjuried marketplace, meaning sellers run their own shops, create, sell, and ship their own products, and are responsible for complying with our robust Seller Policy. Items on Etsy do not have barcodes or SKUs, and Etsy does not ever touch or possess the items for sale on the Etsy marketplace. The unique nature of Etsy sellers product inventory, combined with the constantly evolving nature of policy interpretation, necessitates expert, human involvement in content moderation, which we combine with the power of ML and other cutting-edge technology. Our teams regularly re-evaluate content on the Etsy marketplace in the context of emerging trends to determine whether such content violates our House Rules or terms of use, including our Prohibited Items policy. We focus on detecting and removing prohibited content, equipping buyers with the information needed for informed purchases, and helping sellers understand and comply with our policies. To support this, weve simplified our permitted items policies, improved violation notifications, and provided resources to guide sellers through compliance. We remain committed to making it easy for anyone to report potential policy violations. We have increased our investments and resources dedicated to trust and safety in line with our marketplace growth. This included scaling our teams and investing in new tools and advanced technologies to enable these teams to more effectively and 10 Table of Contents efficiently do their jobs. For example, we grew our content moderation team, expanded our teams dedicated to fighting counterfeits and policy violations, and continued to optimize our dedicated trust and safety ML engineering team. In 2024, we also introduced a new seller onboarding fee to support enhanced security checks and seller verification and continued to expand proactive listing reviews and enforcement of our Creativity Standards to protect the integrity of our marketplace. We publish an annual Transparency Report, which details our policy enforcement for the year on Intellectual Property, Prohibited Items, and Requests for Member Information policies. We have shared this report on our corporate website annually since 2015 and believe that publicly reporting on our enforcement efforts builds trust in our marketplace and community. Trust & Safety also remained a top priority for Reverb and Depop in 2024. For example, Reverb continued to improve identity verification and Depop utilized AI to rapidly identify and remove bad actors. You can read more about our other marketplaces respective policies and procedures by visiting each of their marketplace websites. Member Support As the Etsy marketplace has scaled, so have our investments in member support. As the primary touch point for our vibrant community of buyers and sellers, our Member Services team serves as both the voice of the Etsy brand and an important advocate for our community. When an issue arises, or a user has a question, we want to ensure they get support quickly and easily. In 2024, we enhanced Member Support offerings by making it easier for buyers to access support through prominent links in user profiles, adding conversational AI within the Help Center for both buyers and sellers in the United States and Canada who are on desktops, and making Shop Manager chat available to all sellers in good standing. Our subsidiaries also require similar member support activities. For example, Reverb expanded its chatbot integrations in 2024, enabling additional self-service solutions and reducing the overall time it takes for Reverb to resolve issues for their community; and Depop continued to invest in improving Member support efficiencies and the overall user experience. Helping Sellers Grow We aim to be the easiest, most effective, and highest-value online selling platform for sellers with the skill and will to thrive. Beyond the Offsite Ads program, Etsy Ads (our onsite advertising platform), and shipping labels, we provide sellers with valuable insights, programs, and educational resources to support their growth. By combining these offerings with access to a global audience, we aim to strengthen sellers' desire to continue building their businesses on Etsy. Other efforts include: The Etsy Search Visibility Page, launched in the middle of 2024, is designed to give sellers more agency and control over their businesses. The page provides actionable tips to help sellers improve their search ranking on Etsy, covering key areas associated with quality, such as return policies, response times, and shipping charges. As sellers make changes to their listings, they have the ability to track improvements in real time. The Etsy Purchase Protection program, designed to help buyers feel more confident making a purchase and allow sellers to keep their earnings on qualifying orders up to $250 when an item does not match the description, arrives late or damaged, or never arrives, continues to provide support for our sellers when a transaction goes wrong through no fault of their own. The Etsy Share & Save program, a way for sellers to save on Etsy fees for sales they directly drive to their Etsy shop from their own channels. Our subsidiaries also offer many features and services for their seller communities, including tips and tools for success, community events, and shipping carrier relationships and support. Both Reverb and Depop enhanced seller tools designed to boost sales; Reverb improved pricing data access and offer functionality, while Depop eliminated seller fees for U.K. and U.S. users, streamlined listing creation with AI-powered photo analysis, and upgraded offer negotiation tools with real-time market price information. 11 Table of Contents Fostering Engaged and Impactful Teams Etsy marketplaces People & Workplace mission is to foster engaged and impactful teams. We know that attracting great talent is just the first step; equally important is to invest in programs that support the retention and growth of our employees. To achieve this, we are committed to equal opportunities for employment, engagement, and development for all of our employees. Attracting a World-Class Workforce Etsys mission to Keep Commerce Human requires us to serve a community of buyers and sellers that is extraordinarily diverse. As a result, we have long valued diversity of all types in our workforce a workforce full of creativity and innovation, where employees think differently from one another and approach challenges in different ways and believe that increasing the diversity of our workforce will drive business growth. To provide a more comprehensive understanding of the diversity of the Etsy marketplace workforce, in 2024 we expanded our workforce data to include sexual orientation, disability status, veteran status, and parental status. See page 28 for details of our Workforce metrics. Developing and Retaining Engaged Talent As part of our focus on employee experience, workplace environment and culture, and strategic workforce planning, we are proud to offer best-in-class benefits that help us attract and retain our talent. In addition, in 2024, the Etsy marketplace further embraced hybrid excellence, working to enable a distributed workforce to effectively connect and collaborate, while establishing a policy that optimizes for intentional and impactful in-person collaboration. We aim to foster a workplace culture that empowers employees to perform at their best, and we believe that cultivating a strong sense of community is essential to achieving that goal. Our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) and Safe Space Communities continue to thrive, with over a dozen communities and self-organized groups for employees working for the Etsy marketplace, six at Reverb, and five at Depop (ERG leadership is open to employees of all backgrounds). In 2024, Etsy marketplace also widely offered mentorship programs based on employees professional development goals, needs, and levels. As a learning organization, we continue to conduct engagement surveys at least annually across our House of Brands. Over 80% of employees participated in the 2024 survey and reported engagement scores of 65% for Etsy respondents, 66% for Reverb respondents, and 76% for Depop respondents. Given the late 2023 restructurings at Etsy and Reverb, we did see a decline in overall engagement scores at both businesses as compared to the prior year. As a result, the Etsy Executive Team implemented new employee connection initiatives in 2024 that were focused on key topics. These well attended sessions, which will continue in 2025, are providing valuable insights to shape our Internal Communications and People Strategy, ultimately aiming to boost engagement through stronger executive-employee relationships. Additionally, we were pleased to see that our employee value proposition remains strong, with questions like I am proud to work for Etsy receiving 80% favorable responses and I would recommend Etsy as a great place to work receiving 79% favorable responses. The Etsy Marketplace: Our Passionate and Engaged Community This section outlines characteristics of the Etsy marketplace seller and buyer cohorts, which we believe is a useful barometer to track our performance over time. Etsy Sellers We believe that our 5.6 million active sellers - defined as sellers who have had a charge or sale in the last 12 months - are the backbone of Etsys business and that what matters most to them is our community of approximately 89.6 million buyers. We serve creative artisans and entrepreneurs around the world who choose to pursue their passions, offering them excellent value by enabling them to reach our large base of global customers, and a cohesive suite of powerful tools and services to help them run their business and drive sales. Etsy sellers range from hobbyists to professional merchants and have a broad range of personal and professional goals. In 2024, our number of active sellers declined, as we strengthened our new shop onboarding process and further expanded our trust and safety enforcement, which, we believe, significantly slowed the on-boarding of new sellers to Etsy. The percentage of sellers who made a sale on Etsy grew in 2024, which we believe is directly attributable to these new initiatives. 12 Table of Contents About Etsy Sellers Etsy is an on-ramp to entrepreneurship and economic empowerment for many people who might not have otherwise started a business. Here are some highlights from our November 2024 seller census1: Approximately half of our sellers sell exclusively on Etsy, and of those that dont, about a third get the majority of their sales on our marketplace. Sellers creative businesses help build resilience for sellers and their families. For 29%, their creative business (on and off Etsy) is their sole occupation. Their creative business provides an important source of supplemental income contributing 11% of household income, on average. 42% have financial dependents and 23% have children under 18 at home. 38% use income from their creative business to cover household expenses like bills, rent, and food. Etsy businesses support local communities and the broader economy. The vast majority (90%) source supplies domestically. 28% of sellers export their goods outside their home country. Creative entrepreneurs continue turning to Etsy for financial stability. 64% of all sellers cite financial challenges as prompting them to start their creative businesses with the rising cost of living or inflation cited as the main contributor. 1 in 5 sellers say their business has helped them offset the rising cost of living, and 1 in 4 sellers in business for more than a year say their Etsy income is more important now than a year ago. Etsy sellers help us understand broader economic trends. They are emblematic of the changing nature of work: half work independently2, and only 34% have full-time employment. 1Global Methodology: Etsy sellers with an active shop in all of our core markets (United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Canada and Australia) were randomly selected to take part in a 25 minute online survey between October 1, 2024 and October 16, 2024. The survey and data analysis of the results were conducted by Ipsos, a leading Research and Public Opinion firm, in partnership with Etsy. The total global sample size was 2,402 sellers. Results were weighted to represent Etsys global footprint and seller population parameters. The margin of error for the global survey is +/- 3.1%, but may vary per question. 2We use work independently to mean those who do not work in traditional full-time employment, and includes people who selected: self-employed, employed part time, or temporary or contract employee as their main working status, as well as those for whom their creative business is their sole occupation. 13 Table of Contents Here are some of the needs and challenges they cite: On average they spend 52% of their business time making/designing and the rest on other administrative tasks. Major challenges are marketing their businesses (53%) and dealing with inconsistent sales (54%). 37% of Etsy sellers reported that their business faced challenges as a result of inflation and the rising cost of living: most of those sellers saw increases in material and supply costs, and 2 in 5 saw a rise in the cost of utilities. They seek success on their own terms. 77% want to grow their businesses, but 53% of sellers do not want to grow so big that they would have to hire others. Nearly 7 in 10 started their creative business in order to earn money while doing something they enjoy. They care about running responsible businesses. Approximately 6 in 10 say it is extremely or very important to run a socially responsible (61%) and environmentally friendly (55%) business. Nearly half of sellers surveyed report that they use packaging that can be recycled. KEY DEMOGRAPHICS OF ETSY SELLERS IN THE UNITED STATES AND UNITED KINGDOM (our top two markets) DEMOGRAPHICS UNITED STATES UNITED KINGDOM Gender (% identify as women) 83 % 76 % Mean Age (years) 42.6 42.7 Education (% college or more) 52 % 64 % Rural 26 % 28 % LGBTQIA+3 13 % 10 % Sellers who self-identified as two or more of the below categories have been included in both totals. For both U.S. and U.K., the totals do not sum to 100% because some sellers declined to respond. White 78 % 81 % Hispanic or Latinx 14 % n/a Asian or Pacific Islander (U.S.) - Asian / Asian British (U.K.) 6 % 4 % Black or African American (U.S.) - Black / African / Caribbean / Black British (U.K.) 9 % 6 % Native American 3 % n/a Mixed / multiple ethnic groups n/a 5 % Other race/ethnicity 4 % 1 % 3 This includes all those who selected: Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual or Asexual as well as those who chose to enter their own text to describe themselves. All respondents also had the option to select Straight/Heterosexual or decline to answer. 14 Table of Contents Etsy New Seller GMS Retention New Seller Cohort GMS Retention (%) New Seller Cohort GMS Retention ($) Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2019 New Sellers $832M $1.5B $1.4B $1.1B 2020 New Sellers $2.9B $2.6B $2.0B $1.7B 2021 New Sellers $1.9B $1.8B $1.5B 2022 New Sellers $1.5B $1.6B 2023 New Sellers $1.4B Note Etsy new seller GMS retention in Year 1 in the above table represents 100%. The above tables show two different views of the same data. Each new seller cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all sellers that created and were billed for their first listing on the Etsy marketplace in the designated year - the table on the left shows retention as a percentage of Year 1 GMS and the one on the right shows retention in dollars. The GMS for each seller is calculated from the date of their first listing fee such that Year 1 represents the GMS received by all sellers in the cohort within 365 days of their first listing fee. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2023 new seller cohort, as sellers who incurred their first listing fee later in 2023 have not yet had two years to age. Etsy Buyers We believe our efforts to engage new, lapsed, and existing buyers, as well as drive frequency, have helped support the health of our buyer cohorts overall despite challenging macroeconomic conditions for discretionary goods. In 2024, the number of active buyers on the Etsy marketplace - defined as buyers who have made at least one purchase within the trailing twelve months - decreased 3% from 2023 to 89.6 million. Active buyers increased from 2020, as shown in the chart to the left. The year-over-year decline in 2024 was largely driven by macroeconomic factors outlined on page 5 (High Level Performance Recap). We continue to see strong growth in reactivation of lapsed buyers, healthy new buyer acquisition levels, as well as healthy retention of active buyers, as detailed below. 15 Table of Contents We believe that a useful way to track the success of our efforts to drive buyer retention, frequency, and purchases is to look at GMS per active buyer on a trailing twelve month basis. This figure declined 3.5% from 2023 to 2024 due to the overall macroeconomic factors outlined on page 5 (High Level Performance Recap). We believe we have meaningful opportunities to re-accelerate this metric over time as we continue to focus on increasing buyer frequency and growing our average order value, which we believe is a relatively untapped lever. As outlined above, we believe that we have a significant opportunity to attract those who have never shopped on Etsy before. Since a buyer is separately identified by a unique e-mail address, a buyer is considered new if they use a unique e-mail address that has never been used for a purchase on the Etsy marketplace. During 2024, we added 24 million new Etsy marketplace buyers, down 14% compared to 2023. GMS for Etsy marketplace new buyers was down 17% year-over-year and represented approximately 9% of overall Etsy marketplace GMS in 2024. While the acquisition of new buyers and their attributed GMS declined from the prior year, we believe this continues to be a healthy level of new buyer acquisition. As a reference point, in 2019 Etsy added a total of 19 million new buyers. 16 Table of Contents Etsy New Buyer GMS Retention New Buyer Cohort GMS Retention (%) New Buyer Cohort GMS Retention ($) Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 2019 New Buyers $1.6B $978M $949M $848M 2020 New Buyers $3.6B $1.6B $1.4B $1.3B 2021 New Buyers $3.2B $1.1B $977M 2022 New Buyers $2.6B* $799M 2023 New Buyers $2.2B *Adjusted from $2.8B reported in 2023 10-K. Note Etsy new buyer GMS retention in Year 1 in the above table represents 100%. These views of buyer retention focus on the retained GMS, which we believe is the best way to evaluate Etsy buyer behavior over a multi-year period. The above tables show the same data in two different views. Each new buyer cohort includes the aggregate GMS from all buyers who made their first purchase on Etsy in the designated year - the table on the left shows retention as a percentage of Year 1 GMS and the one on the right shows it in dollars. Each buyers GMS is calculated from the date of their first purchase such that Year 1 represents the GMS of all purchases by buyers in the cohort within 365 days of their first purchase. As a result, we do not yet have a full Year 2 data set for the 2023 new buyer cohort, as buyers who bought later in 2023 have not had two years to age. Additionally, note that across our cohorts, GMS retention levels in years that include 2020 and 2021 were impacted by the pandemic. Because buyers often lapse in their Etsy marketplace purchases (not making a purchase in a year or more), the activities outlined above in our strategy, product, and marketing sections are intended in part to reduce the number of buyers that lapse and also to re-engage lapsed buyers. We reactivated 4.7% more lapsed buyers in 2024 on a year-over-year basis, with the majority located in the United States. 17 Table of Contents Repeat Etsy buyers represent shoppers who made purchases on two or more days in the previous 12 months. We believe repeat purchases demonstrate the loyalty of Etsy buyers. This metric has remained largely stable over the last four years, going from 5 purchase days per year in 2020 to 4.9 purchase days per year in 2024. Approximately 48% of our active buyers were repeat buyers in 2024, consistent with the levels observed annually since 2020. Looking forward, we believe that we have a significant opportunity to continue to drive frequency by building buyer consideration. This chart represents a summary of active buyer behavior according to the number of days they purchase and the amount they spend on Etsy during a twelve-month period. Habitual buyers are defined as those who have spent $200 or more and made purchases on six or more days in the previous 12 months. This cohort comprised 7% of our active buyers and represented approximately 41% of our 2024 GMS. 18 Table of Contents Competition For all of our marketplaces, sellers may choose to list their goods for sale with online retailers or sell their goods through craft fairs and local markets, local consignment and vintage stores and other venues and marketplaces, including through commerce channels on social networks like Facebook and Instagram. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling sellers to sell from their own website or otherwise run their business independently of our platforms. We are able to compete for sellers based on our brand awareness, the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence, our investments in product and marketing for the benefit of our sellers, our tools, education and services which support a seller in running her business, the number and engagement of our buyers, our policies and fees, the effectiveness of our mobile apps, the strength of our communities, and our mission. In addition, we compete with retailers and marketplaces of all shapes and sizes for the attention of our buyers. A buyer has the choice of shopping with any online or offline venue, whether large e-commerce marketplaces, national retail chains, local consignment and vintage stores, social commerce channels, resale marketplaces, or other venues or marketplaces. We are able to compete for buyers based on the breadth and quality of items that sellers list in our marketplaces, the ease of finding items, the value and awareness of our brands, the person-to-person commerce experience, customer service, our reputation for trustworthiness, the effectiveness of our mobile apps, the availability of timely, fair, and free shipping offered by sellers to buyers, ease of payment, localization, and experiences targeted based on regional preferences, and the availability and reliability of our platforms. We also compete for media placements, including with retailers competing for the attention of our buyers, and increased competition can impact the cost we pay for media placements, including in dynamic auctions. Intellectual Property Protection of our technology and intellectual property is an important component of our success. We rely on intellectual property laws, including patent, trade secret, copyright, and trademark laws, in the United States and abroad. We also use confidentiality procedures, defensive licensing and acquisitions, non-disclosure agreements, invention assignment agreements, and other contractual rights to protect us and our intellectual property. We file patents and register domain names, trademarks, copyrights, and service marks in the United States and abroad. We rely upon unregistered copyrights and common law protection for certain trademarks. We also use internal and external brand protection mechanisms that are intended to protect our brands from misuse by third parties. Government Regulation As with any company operating on the internet, we are subject to a growing number of local, national, and international laws and regulations. These laws are often complex, unclear, sometimes contradict other laws, and are frequently changing. Compliance is costly and can require changes to our business practices and significant amounts of management time and focus. In addition, laws may be interpreted and enforced in different ways in various locations around the world, posing a significant challenge to our global business. For more information, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk FactorsRegulatory, Compliance, and Legal Risks. Seasonality Etsy marketplace sellers experience increased sales and use more Etsy services during the fourth-quarter holiday shopping season. This has resulted in increased GMS and revenue for us during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. Our cost of revenue and marketing expenses also generally follow this trend, with the highest costs incurred in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. We expect this seasonality to continue in future years. 19 Table of Contents ESG Reporting: Our Impact Goals, Strategy, & Progress We have developed an Impact strategy and goals that reflect the positive impact we want to have on the world while advancing and complementing our business strategy, and we are pleased to provide this update on our progress. Our Approach to ESG Reporting: We apply similar focus, discipline, and accountability to our environmental, social, and governance (ESG) reporting metrics as we do our financial metrics, and we believe that together they make us stronger and more resilient. We use our required filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as well as our Investor Relations website and Etsy News blog, as our primary communications channels for information relating to our Impact strategy and progress. We have various approaches for determining what information we disclose in our ESG reporting, including feedback we receive from the financial community and other stakeholders. In addition, we continue to report our ESG metrics using the relevant Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) sector standards for our industry and the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. We also strive to stay abreast of new disclosure regulations, such as the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (CSRD), that we are or may be required to comply with so we can develop an action plan and prepare to comply. We expect to continue to evolve our Impact strategy and ESG reporting in the future as our Impact work at Etsy and the broader industry matures. Our discussion of Impact strategy, highlights, and ESG data includes the operations of our Etsy, Reverb, and Depop marketplaces except where noted. Section Page How We Drive Impact The levers we use to drive Impact work 21 Environmental Goals & Highlights 22 Social Highlights 26 Workforce Metrics Highlights 28 Governance Highlights 31 SASB Consumer Goods Sector E-Commerce industry standard reporting 32 TCFD Climate - Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, Metrics, and Targets 36 20 Table of Contents How We Drive Impact: Underpinning our Impact strategy is a set of levers we employ to drive toward our Impact goals while advancing and complementing our business strategy. In 2024, Etsy, Inc.s Advocacy team worked with sellers and policymakers around the world to ensure a voice for small business owners in public policy. We continued to advocate for public policies aligned with the needs of creative entrepreneurs including supporting: enhanced access to affordable child care and caregiving leave for micro businesses; the rights of small business owners by advocating against new rules that would impose heavy one size-fits-all burdens on small and microbusinesses; and decarbonizing transportation for shipping, which supports cleaner air, reduced climate risk, and improved health across the globe. Impact Investing. In 2022, we set up a $30 million Impact Investment Fund that seeks to make investments that are aligned with our Impact strategy. As of December 31, 2024, $20.5 million of the Impact Investment Fund was allocated to specific investments and the rest was on deposit at a community development finance institution in the United States. Philanthropy. In 2024, Etsy made over $5.6 million in philanthropic donations to organizations driving equal access to economic opportunity and to community-based organizations. Donations to support small businesses were bolstered by contributions from marketplace buyers who contributed through the round up feature at checkout. Contributing to our Communities. Collectively, we enabled our employees to donate 4,419 hours of paid volunteer time off in their communities through Etsys Impact Hours program. Etsy is committed to helping our sellers prepare for and recover from natural disasters that disrupt their business. In 2024, we supported sellers impacted by events such as Hurricanes Helene and Milton by, among other things, deferring fees and providing access to recovery resources such as the Etsy Disaster Relief Fund. For more information see page 26. Purchasing Power. We aim to drive positive impact in our supply chain by investing in strong relationships with our suppliers. We engage on priority impact areas, such as greenhouse gas emissions, fair wages, and employee benefits programs, at crucial touch points throughout the supplier lifecycle. We conduct regular reviews and conversations to confirm suppliers are upholding agreed upon practices and to identify further areas where we can engage with suppliers. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct designed to ensure that our suppliers are committed to our standards. 21 Table of Contents Environmental Building resilience for the long term Net Zero Sustainable Operations Marketplace Sustainability Net Zero Goal: Achieve Net Zero through targets aligned with the science of climate change. Brand Key Performance Indicators Targets Our Progress Absolute Scope 1 + 2 greenhouse gas emissions* metric tonnes (mt) By year end 2030, we aim to achieve a 50% reduction from a 2020 base year. 33% reduction vs. baseline By year end 2040, we aim to achieve a 90% reduction from a 2020 base year. Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions* mt per million dollars of gross profit By year end 2030, we aim to achieve a 52% reduction from a 2020 base year. 37% reduction vs. baseline By year end 2040, we aim to achieve a 97% reduction from a 2020 base year. * Scope 1 emissions include direct emissions such as natural gas and refrigerants used at our offices. Scope 2 emissions include indirect emissions from the generation of electricity that we may purchase for our offices. Scope 3 emissions include all other indirect emissions that occur in our value chain such as business travel, employee commuting, and the processing of waste from our operations. Our Strategy We believe our Net Zero work strengthens our position as a trusted brand, a core pillar of our long-term strategy, and makes us more resilient, drives efficiencies, and prepares us for anticipated regulations. Whats more, we believe the benefits of reducing emissions resonate beyond our corporate boundaries, contributing to the overall health of people and the planet. We have made consistent progress on our Net Zero goal year-over-year as seen below: n Absolute Emissions 2030 Aligned Target 2040 Goal nEmissions Intensity 2030 Aligned Target 2040 Goal Scope of our Net Zero Goal: In 2022, the Science Based Targets Initiative (SBTi) approved Etsy's Net Zero goal under their new Net-Zero Standard. As of December 31, 2024, our Net Zero goal includes emissions from the Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop, and is set against a 2020 baseline which has been adjusted to exclude Elo7.* The above 2020 and 2021 emissions include third-party assured Etsy marketplace and Reverb data (for absolute Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3 - Category 1, Scope 3 - Category 6: Air Travel, Scope 3 - Category 9, and Scope 3 - Category 11 emissions) and internally reviewed Depop data. Depop accounted for approximately 6% of these emissions in 2020 and 4% in 2021. Our 2022, 2023, and 2024 data includes third-party assured data for the Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop. For additional details about how we quantify emissions, see our GHG inventory and related notes (including assured emissions categories) on page 35. *Our SBTi approved Net Zero goal included estimated emissions for Elo7. In 2023, Etsy completed the sale of Elo7 and, therefore, the estimated Elo7 emissions previously included in our 2020 baseline have been removed resulting in a 0.5% reduction to the 2020 baseline. In accordance with SBTi materiality guidelines, we are not required to submit the adjusted target for revalidation by the SBTi at this time. 22 Table of Contents Shipping Emissions from the shipping of items sold in our marketplaces are by far the largest source of our quantified Scope 3 emissions. In 2024, these emissions accounted for 54% of our reported Scope 3 emissions. This represents a 12% intensity reduction relative to 2023 and 49% intensity reduction relative to our 2020 baseline. While we continue to make good progress on reducing our shipping emissions intensity, Depop's recent growth, particularly in the United States, has limited our emissions reduction. Depops share of Etsys absolute shipping emissions grew from 5% in 2023 to 11% in 2024. We drive reduction in shipping emissions primarily through advocacy, carrier engagement, and product (marketplace) design. In 2024, we advocated for the United States Environmental Protection Agency to grant the California Air Resources Board a Clean Air Act waiver to enforce the California Advanced Clean Fleets rule and supported the Clean Deliveries Act in New York. We continue our regular engagement with key shipping carriers related to fleet electrification and improving shipping emissions data - for the latter, we expanded coverage of supplier specific mail class emissions data to nearly 50% of our 2024 shipments. Lastly, we continue to make improvements in Search and Discovery to enable buyers to more easily shop locally, which has the potential to reduce emissions, as well as shipping time and cost. Our Supply Chain Our supply chain emissions (Scope 3 - Category 1) are our second largest source of quantified Scope 3 emissions. Through direct supplier engagement, improved data quality (including leveraging more supplier specific emissions data), and supplier selection criteria, in 2024, our reported supply chain emissions intensity decreased by 1% relative to 2023. Our analysis found that 53% of Etsys spend went to companies that have set a science-based emissions reduction goal. Building on the 2023 pilot, we expanded the coverage of our supplier carbon fee program in 2024. The program requires suppliers to achieve an A- on the annual Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) assessment in order to avoid paying a carbon fee. In 2024, we negotiated terms with suppliers representing more than $30 million in annual spend while expanding the resources we offer suppliers including renewable energy certificates (REC), incentives for strong performance, and free-of-charge sustainability advisory with our consulting partner. Packaging Emissions from our sellers packaging are the third largest source of our quantified Scope 3 emissions. In 2024, these emissions accounted for 16% of our reported Scope 3 emissions, which represents a 28% intensity increase relative to 2023. More information on our 2024 packaging methodology can be found on page 35. Our work to help sellers reduce emissions from packaging is detailed in the Marketplace Sustainability section below. Beyond Value Chain Mitigation (BVCM) We are focused on meeting our long-term SBTi-approved Net Zero goal. However, in 2024, while we worked toward long-term reductions in line with our goal, we took immediate action to address our impact by supporting projects that reduce emissions beyond our value chain through our commitment to purchase verified emissions reductions (VERs) in an amount equal to our quantified annual emissions. We consider our BVCM work to be separate but complimentary to our Net Zero emissions reduction efforts. For 2024, we offset Etsy marketplace, Reverb and Depops reported Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions through investment in 478,566 VERs, that, among other things, protect forests, finance solar development, and help develop greener methods for producing auto parts. We regularly review our carbon strategy to ensure we're using our resources to drive a positive impact in our environment, communities, and our supply chain. To this end, we're excited that in 2025, we'll be evolving our strategy to incorporate an explicit internal fee on our carbon emissions. This means for every quantified metric ton of carbon emissions (CO2e) produced as a result of business activities across our marketplaces, we will allocate a set amount of money to carbon projects. Of that annual budget, we expect to invest a minimum of 25% in projects that catalyze emissions reductions within our value chain, such as electrifying road transportation with our carriers, while the remaining budget will be allocated to carbon projects beyond our value chain, such as protecting and conserving forests. This evolution will enable us to take advantage of new opportunities to reduce our emissions in line with our Net Zero goal. While we expect to continue purchasing VERs as part of this work, we expect those purchases will cover less than 100% of our quantified annual Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Investing in Climate Solutions In 2024, Etsy invested $1 million of our Impact Investment Fund (mentioned above) in Iroquois Valley Farms Rooted in Regeneration Notes, which provides financing to support socially disadvantaged farmers, including concessionary mortgage interest rates to enable these farmers to acquire land for organic, regenerative farming. 23 Table of Contents Sustainable Operations Goal: Maintain best-in-class sustainable operations. Brand Key Performance Indicators Targets Our Progress % renewable energy sourced for offices electricity usage, electricity usage from employees working from home, and Etsy marketplaces Google Cloud usage 100% of quantified usage each year 100% % of offices open for more than 24 months and for which we maintain operational control with Zero Waste certification 100% by year end 2025 87% Intensity of our energy use in offices where we maintain operational control measured by kWh/ sq ft 25% reduction by year end 2025 from a 2016 baseline 34% reduction - offices Intensity of our energy use in computing measured by kWh/ visit 25% reduction by year end 2025 from a 2016 baseline 73% reduction - computing Striving for best-in-class sustainable operations allows us to focus on long-term cost reduction, minimizing waste, and creating a healthier office environment for our employees. Energy Use In 2024, our total quantified operational energy footprint was 13,499 MWh, of which 75% was from electricity. This includes energy usage from our offices, employees working from home, and Google Cloud computing for the Etsy marketplace. Using our Cloud Jewels methodology, we estimate our energy consumption from Google Cloud in 2024 to have been 5,742 MWh for the Etsy marketplace. For more information on our energy mix, please see our SASB disclosure starting on page 32. Our transition to Google Cloud has contributed to significant efficiencies in computing energy usage for the Etsy marketplace. Specifically, our ability to flex infrastructure capacity, speed up processing and page load times, and flex technology usage depending upon marketplace traffic volume have contributed to reduced energy intensity. In 2024, Depop committed to set an energy efficiency target by early 2028, implementing tactical measures to reduce energy intensity in the interim. We currently expect to evaluate energy efficiency options for Reverb once their new office opens in 2025. Renewable Energy We began sourcing renewable energy for our measured or calculated electricity use in 2020, and since 2022, we have sourced renewable energy for the electricity we measured or calculated as used to power Etsy marketplace, Reverb, and Depop offices and employees working from home, as well as Etsy marketplace's computing load in Google Cloud. This was achieved through our 15-year virtual power purchase agreement (VPPA), the purchase of international renewable energy credits for our non-U.S. electricity consumption, and on-site solar arrays at select offices. In 2024, Etsy earned more from its U.S. based VPPA than we paid, effectively reducing electricity costs for our U.S. offices. Zero Waste In 2024, Etsy's Brooklyn office headquarters received Zero Waste certification through the Total Resource Use and Efficiency certification program by Green Business Certification Inc. for the seventh year in a row for diverting over 90% of waste from landfill. We continue to roll out a third-party tech-enabled system that measures real-time waste streams and contamination in our offices. As of December 31, 2024, our Brooklyn, Dublin and London offices use this system and we currently plan to roll it out to additional offices in 2025. 24 Table of Contents Marketplace Sustainability Goal: Establish our marketplaces as destinations for sustainably minded shoppers and conscious living by reducing the environmental impact of shopping and fulfillment lifecycles, and creating experiences that promote circularity. Brand Key Performance Indicators Target Our Progress Total active listings that have a circular attribute* No target set, monitoring progress 169 million active listings % of active listings that have a sustainability attribute** at December 31, 2024 No target set, monitoring progress 3% of active listings % of sellers who have added a sustainability attribute** to at least one listing at December 31, 2024 No target set, monitoring progress 8% of active sellers % of used items sold as share of total items sold >50% per year Achieved % of used item sales 25% increase by year end 2025 from a 2022 baseline 2% increase vs. baseline *Circular attributes on the Etsy marketplace are vintage, upcycled, reusable swaps, and contains recycled content (metal, glass, polyester, plastic, paper, or cotton), or contains vintage gemstones. On Depop, these attributes are used, deadstock, reworked, preloved, vintage or made from recycled cotton or polyester. On Reverb, the circular attribute is used. In each case this includes any listing that was active at any point during 2024. **Sustainability attributes on the Etsy marketplace are made from environmentally conscious materials or designed to be reusable or to reduce waste. We believe prioritizing sustainability within our marketplaces creates an opportunity to drive strategic growth and ensure we are our communities first stop when they want to shop according to their values. Were bringing sustainability to life for buyers and sellers in several ways: Item Sustainability In 2022, the Etsy marketplace piloted optional sustainability listing attributes available across four retail categories that allow sellers to indicate if their items are made from environmentally conscious materials or are designed to be reusable or to reduce waste. Throughout 2024, we improved the process to surface listings with sustainability attributes in environment-related Etsy pages and will continue to seek ways to improve the experience while ensuring attributes remain relevant and credible. Circularity Our strategy is to inspire and enable people to participate in the circular economy where products and resources remain in use at their highest value across our marketplaces. Our communities are participating in circular systems, from the creative materials they use, to the items they sell, to the packaging they use to ship. Depop's mission is to make fashion circular and its aim is to inspire more people to shop secondhand - extending the lives of their clothes and redefining fashion consumption. We estimate more than 100 million items have been given a second life*** by Depop users since the platform was founded. This year, Depop removed seller fees in the United Kingdom and United States, making it easier for users to sell clothes they no longer wear, and offering improved value and choice for buyers. This change contributed to a 33% increase in Depops overall listings active at any point during 2024 compared to 2023, reflecting Depops growing community of sellers participating in the circular economy. Throughout 2024, we communicated the environmental impact of secondhand purchases on Depop compared to brand-new items, using our Environmental Impact Measurement Methodology, which we co-developed with a third party in 2023. We hope that by showcasing the environmental benefits of shopping secondhand rather than brand-new, we can continue to bring circular fashion to more people. ***Represents items sold on Depop that have been tagged as used condition (rather than all items sold). We assume the split of used compared to new items remained consistent over time, as the condition attribute was added in the fourth quarter of 2020. 25 Table of Contents Packaging As part of our efforts to meet our Net Zero goal, we are helping inform sellers about ways to reduce emissions from the packaging they use to ship orders, through both reused packaging and more sustainable options. In 2024, we continued our partnership with EcoEnclose for both Etsy marketplace and Depop sellers in the United States. Through the partnership, sellers can access and buy affordable packaging made from recycled paper and certified responsibly sourced paper that buyers can also recycle easily at home. To make it easier for sellers to access this packaging, we have integrated EcoEnclose into the Etsy marketplace Seller platform Shop Manager as a preferred partner and have since seen a 100% increase in uptake. Helping Our Sellers Build Climate Resilience Our sellers face increasing challenges related to natural disasters. Recognizing this, a core part of our climate resilience strategy focuses on improving both the recovery capacity and the preparedness of our sellers. We implement this strategy through three levers: intervention, education, and advocacy. In 2024, through proactive disaster response efforts, we provided bill deferment, extended star seller status, and shared disaster response resources to more than 250,000 sellers in response to natural disasters. We also increased the number of grants and frequency of disbursement provided through our disaster response grant program with the Craft Emergency Relief Fund (CERF+), which offers grants to Etsy marketplace U.S. sellers impacted by a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) declared disaster. We also continue to partner with Nest, Inc. to develop resources that make it easier for sellers and artisans in the U.S. and India to access climate-related disaster information and funding. Through this same partnership, weve advocated for improvements to FEMA and the Small Business Administration disaster relief programs to ensure the needs of home-based artisans are considered. Social Ensuring equal access to opportunity Engaged and Impactful Teams Workforce Access Supply Chain Creative Community Engaged and Impactful Teams For more information on how we foster Engaged and Impactful Teams, please see page 12 of this report. Workforce Access Goal: Ensure equal access to employment, engagement, and development to drive equitable outcomes. Ensuring Equal Access to Employment As noted on page 12, we believe teams with diverse viewpoints are better able to deliver the creativity and innovation necessary to serve our global community of buyers and sellers, and as a result we broadly seek to increase the range of backgrounds and perspectives in our workforce. These efforts encompass outreach and recruiting practices, which are designed to ensure we attract the broadest and most talent-rich pool of employee applicants possible. In all cases, we make individual employment decisions whether its a decision to hire, to promote, to discipline, or to discharge on the basis of merit. We remain confident in the processes we have in place to mitigate biases, and have seen the diversity of our U.S. workforce increase over the past several years. Consistent with how we run our business, we track our progress in diversifying our workforce through a variety of metrics at both the consolidated Etsy level and at the individual marketplace levels. For Etsy Marketplace: At December 31, 2024: 51.5% of all global employees identified as women or marginalized genders 14.9% of U.S. employees identified as Black, Latinx, or Native American 42.1% of U.S.-based software engineers identified as women or marginalized genders 17.7% of Mexico-based software engineers identified as women or marginalized genders 27.8% of Ireland-based software engineers identified as women or marginalized genders 9.7% of our U.S. and U.K. employees disclosed that they have or have had a disability 26 Table of Contents 0.5% of our U.S. employees disclosed that they are veterans that served in the armed forces 11.0% of our U.S. employees disclosed that they identify as LGBTQIA+ 33.3% of our U.S., Mexico, and Ireland employees disclosed that they are parents of children below the age of 18 through their benefits elections Scored 100 on Disability: IN's Disability Equality Index for 2024 For Reverb: At December 31, 2024: 35.7% of all global employees identified as women or marginalized genders 20.2% of U.S. employees identified as Black, Latinx, Native American, Asian and two or more races For Depop: At December 31, 2024: 27.9% of U.S. and U.K. employees identified as Asian, Black, Mixed or Other, including Latinx in the United States 26.9% of employees on engineering and data teams identified as women and marginalized genders Consolidated workforce highlights can be found below. In addition to our work to attract qualified and diverse talent, we are also investing in programs that support the retention and engagement of our employees, as described further below. Ensuring Equal Access to Pay Etsy takes proactive measures at each step of the employee journey to ensure fair pay practices. At the recruiting stage, we determine compensation packages within our existing frameworks by comparing outgoing offers to internal roles with comparable experience. During compensation reviews, we use guideposts when determining the size of merit and promotion increases and bonuses based on performance outcomes. Additionally, all compensation recommendations are reviewed by Human Resources and senior leadership to ensure equity. Etsy also periodically makes market-based adjustments to compensation that we apply consistently within and across functions and/or teams, to ensure pay for internal employees is aligned with that of new hires. As part of our commitment to fair pay practices, we completed our most recent biennial pay equity analysis, conducted by a third-party consulting firm, in 2024. The purpose of this analysis is to look at pay across jobs and levels to ensure our practices are fair and consistent and that compensation is not influenced by gender, or race/ethnicity. The analysis found no unexplained pay gaps adverse to women or employees from other marginalized genders, or non-white employees. Additionally, there were no unexplained pay gaps based on intersectionality (i.e., based on the combination of race and gender/ethnicity). We plan to continue to comprehensively audit pay equity biennially with an external consultant, and conduct internal reviews several times a year in conjunction with events such as rating and promotion decisions and market adjustments. Ensuring Equal Access to Advancement Opportunities The career achievement and advancement of our people is a priority. We provide robust professional development budgets for our teams to use for skill development, and career coaching to all levels of employees. Additionally, the Etsy marketplace widely offers mentoring for employees, and has multiple mentorship programs. As part of our commitment to provide our people with unique challenges and opportunities that help them develop, grow, and realize their career aspirations, we've established transparent expectations outlined by level, and we leverage those expectations to evaluate performance equitably. We provide our people managers with standardized templates for development and growth conversations, and hold them accountable for having these conversations. Twice a year, managers also have the opportunity to recognize the contributions and readiness of individual team members for the next level through our promotion processes, which are rigorously reviewed for equity of outcome. We also have a transparent process for applying for role opportunities internally, and a fair evaluation method for consideration. Additionally, we believe recognition is a critical piece of an employees engagement; it contributes to a sense of esteem and belonging which studies show increases motivation and productivity. To support this, we offer our managers a variety of methods of recognition to support their teams. 27 Table of Contents Progress On Disability Inclusion We are proud that the Etsy marketplace achieved a score of 100 on DisabilityIn.org's Disability Equality Index in 2024 for the second year in a row. We are committed to making progress against our roadmap of enhancements to our programs, policies, and practices for the Etsy marketplace and to maintaining a best-in-class score for the Etsy Marketplace for 2025. Reverb and Depop benchmarked their current practices during 2024, and are in the process of building roadmaps of improvements for their respective organizations. During 2024, Depop made progress by developing education around accessibility and disability inclusion for all employees, including providing resources specific for managers, and clarified their accommodations process. Depop and Reverb remain committed to continuing progress on their roadmap in 2025. We believe a central measure of our progress is evident in employee self-disclosure of disability status. Without reason to share or enough trust between a company and its employees, individuals are unlikely to self-disclose. In 2024, 9.7% of U.S. and U.K. Etsy marketplace employees disclosed that they have or have had a disability. Workforce Metrics As of December 31, 2024 we had approximately 2,400 total employees worldwide including approximately 180 Reverb employees and approximately 400 Depop employees. Across our employee workforce, over 70 nationalities are represented. All metrics below are as of December 31 of the stated year. Leadership is defined as Director level and above. Tech employees are defined as those employees who work on Product, Engineering, Analytics, and HR Information and Financial Systems Administration teams. Engineering employees are defined as those employees who work within the Engineering Job Family Group included within Tech. Other Business Roles are defined as those employees who work in roles outside of the Tech definition, inclusive of non-tech Leadership positions. Gender and age metrics reflect our global employee base, while race and ethnicity metrics reflect U.S. only in the below graphs and table. We continue to value diversity at the Board level. Etsy expects to provide additional disclosures on its Board of Directors in our Proxy Statement for our 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (Proxy Statement) to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Our most recent consolidated equal employment opportunity (EEO-1) report can be found on our Investor Relations website. Gender Metrics - Global Board of Directors Overall Leadership Tech Engineering Other Business Roles nFemale nMale nAdditional Genders* nNot Declared * Additional Genders for Board of Directors was 0% in 2024, 2023, and 2022; for Overall was 2.0% in 2024, 2.4% in 2023, and 2.2% in 2022; for Leadership was 0.3% in 2024, 0.6% in 2023, and 0.7% in 2022; for Tech was 2.1% in 2024, 2.6% in 2023, and 2.3% in 2022; for Engineering was 3.0% in 2024, 3.5% in 2023, and 2.7% in 2022; for Other Business Roles was 1.3% in 2024, 1.5% in 2023, and 2.0% in 2022. Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our workforce metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. For Gender Metrics, 2022 includes Elo7 (divested). 28 Table of Contents RACE & ETHNICITY METRICS - U.S. ONLY Board of Directors Overall Leadership Tech Engineering Other Business Roles nAmerican Indian or Alaska Native* nAsian nBlack/ African American nHispanic nNot Declared nTwo or More Races nWhite * American Indian or Alaska Native for Board of Directors was 0% in 2024, 2023, and 2022; for Overall was 0.1% in 2024, 0.1% in 2023, and 0.2% in 2022; for Leadership was 0% in 2024, 2023, and 2022; for Tech was 0.1% in 2024, 0.1% in 2023, and 0.2% in 2022; for Engineering was 0.1% in 2024, 0.1% in 2023, and 0.2% in 2022; for Other Business Roles was 0% in 2024, 0.2% in 2023, and 0.1% in 2022. Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our workforce metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. AGE METRICS - GLOBAL* 2024 2023 2022 n24 years and younger n30-34 years n40-49 years n25-29 years n35-39 years n50+ years * Age Not Declared was 0.1% in 2024, 0.04% in 2023, and 0.1% in 2022. Etsy commissioned an external third party to perform attest procedures with respect to our workforce metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. For Age Metrics, 2022 includes Elo7 (divested). 29 Table of Contents Supply Chain Goal: Ensure an equitable supply chain that supports a broad range of businesses and brings new economic opportunities to our suppliers and their employees. Supplier Diversity The value that entrepreneurs and innovators deliver is at the core of everything we do, and we therefore continue to work to build a more transparent, accessible, and competitive supply chain. We believe our commitment to supplier diversity provides access to a broader range of innovative ideas, talent, and perspectives, which ultimately leads to enhanced market reach, cost efficiency, and a more resilient supply chain -- all while aligning with our mission to Keep Commerce Human. During 2024, we spent $43 million with diverse-owned suppliers, which we define as woman, disability, and LGBTQ-owned globally; as well as Black, Asian-Indian, Asian-Pacific, Hispanic/Latinx, Indigenous, and veteran-owned in the United States. This year we verified our self-reported diverse suppliers by cross-referencing with the National Minority Supplier Development Council and Disability:INs certified databases to ensure the integrity and accuracy of our efforts. Although we are committed to broadening the diversity of our supplier base and track this data to help measure our outreach progress, in all cases we make individual procurement decisions on the basis of merit. Advancing Partner Welfare and Compensation Etsy utilizes a number of vendors, contractors, and consultants, collectively our vendor partners, in the ordinary course of its business. These vendor partners are typically engaged to (a) enable Etsy to access otherwise unavailable expertise; (b) to fill short term staffing requirements (for example, temporary leave replacements); or (c) support our operations, including to deliver 24-hour multilingual customer support and trust and safety support coverage. We believe our commitment to our vendor partners enhances Etsys operational efficiency and aligns with our ethical standards by reducing turnover, boosting productivity, and ensuring stable service delivery, thereby strengthening our business resilience. In 2024, we continued to educate our vendor partners who employ contractors who do work for Etsy on Etsys aspirational guidelines for employment practices. We continued a process to survey and evaluate our third-party partners across key practices. Where we identify gaps, we open dialogues with our vendors, using these guidelines as a north star: Ensuring our contractors receive a progressive living wage, adjusted for market conditions, based on location. Using our leverage with vendor partners to achieve a progressive and flexible paid leave policy for all full-time contractors, including vacation time, sick time, and gender-neutral parental leave. Ensuring all full-time contractors have access to quality medical care for themselves and their dependents. Creative Community Goal: Build welcoming marketplaces that serve our global community of buyers and sellers and grow opportunity within the creative economy. Our commitment to drive impact for our community focuses on creating pathways to economic opportunity. Across the House of Brands, we aim to provide programs and services to support economically disenfranchised creative businesses and the organizations that serve them. Ranging from the distribution of targeted educational materials to product enhancements, our initiatives are aimed at addressing key barriers to success to facilitate business growth. Commitment to Economic Opportunity Etsy understands the critical role creative entrepreneurship can play in building economic independence and freedom for communities and has long been committed to utilizing our marketplace to help makers with a creative idea build a business online. Our work aims to ensure that the pathways to creative entrepreneurship are available to all. As a cornerstone of Etsys commitment to supporting creative small businesses navigating challenges to building and growing, Etsys Uplift Fund aims to support organizations driving critical resources to entrepreneurs. Through Etsys partnership, in 2024, these organizations provided support to over 3,550 entrepreneurs.In 2024,U.S. buyers joined with Etsy by electing to donate the change on their orders 2.9 million times. These donations, coupled with Etsys contributions, resulted in $3.6 million in grants to organizations providing capital and wrap-around business support services to entrepreneurs, particularly business owners who face barriers to access that impede their ability to grow. Commitment to the Creative Economy Reverb Gives works to advance music programs globally and in 2024 provided access to musical equipment by distributing approximately $184,000 in purchase credits and awards. This year, Reverb Gives together with Etsys Uplift Fund supported 39 organizations committed to serving creative communities and their growth. 30 Table of Contents We have a $30 million Impact Investment Fund that seeks to make investments that are aligned with our Impact strategy. As of December 31, 2024, $20.5 million of the Impact Investment Fund was allocated to specific investments and the rest was on deposit at a large community development finance institution in the United States. In 2024, our Impact Investment Fund invested $500,000 in To the Market, a business that helps artisan and women-owned businesses gain greater market access through the growth of supply chain opportunities. Commitment to Diverse Imagery We also strive to appeal to current and potential customers by ensuring that the images we use in our marketing broadly reflect demographic trends. In 2024, approximately 39.7% of the images of people in marketing assets used on Etsy-owned and managed channels in the United States had black or brown skin tones. Governance Fostering a culture of ethics and accountability Responsible Marketplace Practices The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections among our buyer and seller communities are the cornerstones of Etsys business. For more information, please see Part I, Item 1, BusinessPrimary Business DriversTrust & Safety of this Annual Report. Thoughtful Corporate Governance Our corporate governance practices include an independent Board Chair, a fully independent Board of Directors (except for our Chief Executive Officer), independent Committee members, sophisticated and fully engaged directors with different areas of relative expertise and additional dimensions of diversity, and a balanced distribution of director tenure. For a more complete description of our corporate governance practices, please refer to our most recent proxy statement. More information on our governance policies and guidelines is available at the Investor Relations section of our website. In alignment with our mission to Keep Commerce Human we are committed to upholding and promoting human rights across our marketplaces and throughout our value chain. In 2024 we partnered with Nest to create educational videos for Etsy sellers who engage with production partners. The videos aim to support sellers in choosing ethical and responsible production partners by introducing sellers to key topics in Etsys Ethical Expectations: What We Expect from Sellers Who Work With Production Partners policy. The first of four videos was published in 2024 and addresses our policy on child and youth labor in production partners. In our corporate supply chain, we identified and worked with key suppliers to understand how they prioritize Human Rights in their operations. We also updated our Modern Slavery Statement. And while the connections we facilitate are uniquely human, they are rendered ever more seamless by the power of technology and artificial intelligence (AI). In 2024, we defined six values that guide us in the responsible use of AI across our marketplaces, in our operations, and through our partnerships: Respect, Fairness, Reliability, Transparency, Privacy, and Security. Integrated ESG Reporting We strive to continue to innovate and evolve our ESG disclosures to hold ourselves accountable and transparently engage with all of our stakeholders. Since 2018, weve shared our ESG metrics alongside our financial results in our Integrated Annual Report. This practice is intended to ensure that were transparent about and accountable for progress against our environmental and social commitments. As a result of the evolving regulatory requirements, we have also expanded our standalone ESG reporting, including under the California Voluntary Carbon Market Disclosures Act and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) laws in India. These reports can be found in the Governance section of our Investor Relations webpage. Risk Oversight and Management One of the key functions of our Board of Directors is to provide informed oversight of our risk management processes. While management is responsible for day-to-day management of the material risks we face, our Board of Directors is responsible for risk oversight. Etsy has a Risk Steering Committee, which is comprised of a cross-functional management team that meets regularly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy. Periodic reports on material risk are provided to the Risk Oversight Committee, with an annual update to the full Board of Directors. The Risk Steering Committee also periodically considers areas of new or evolving risks and works to understand risk analyses and establish appropriate mitigation plans. For more information on risk oversight generally, please see Board Oversight of Risk in Etsys Proxy Statement. For information on how we manage our climate related risks, please refer to our complete TCFD response beginning on page 36 of this Annual Report. For information on how we manage our cybersecurity risks, please refer to Item 1C, beginning on page 67 of this Annual Report. 31 Table of Contents SASB Disclosure The Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards (SASB) mission is to develop sustainability metrics for public corporations to disclose material, decision-useful information to investors. Etsys disclosures are designed to provide comparable and consistent data. We have included below the metrics from SASBs Consumer Goods Sector E-Commerce industry standard that are relevant to our business. Unless otherwise noted as relating to Etsy marketplace, Reverb, or Depop, information in this section applies to Etsy, Inc. and all of its subsidiaries. SASB Metrics SASB Code Metric 2024 2023 2022 CG-EC-000.A Entity-defined measure of user activity Active buyers (thousands) 95,459 96,483 95,076 Active sellers (thousands) 8,134 9,035 7,470 2022 Active buyers and Active sellers includes Etsy marketplace, Reverb, Depop and Elo7, while 2023 and 2024 excludes Elo7 (divested). CG-EC-000.B Data processing capacity Etsy marketplace primarily uses Google Cloud for its cloud computing needs, while Reverb and Depop primarily use Amazon Web Services (AWS). In particular, our Etsy marketplace cloud usage has enabled us to dynamically flex our infrastructure capacity, while providing faster processing speed, improved page load time, and more nimble technology on an as needed basis depending on traffic volume. Percentage outsourced 100 % 100 % 100 % Hardware Infrastructure Energy & Water Management CG-EC-130a.1 Total energy consumed, MWh (Etsy marketplace) 5,742 6,253 6,379 Percentage renewable energy (Etsy marketplace) 100 % 100 % 100 % Percentage grid electricity (Etsy marketplace) 100 % 100 % 100 % CG-EC-130a.3 Discussion of the integration of environmental considerations into strategic planning for data center needs. When transitioning to a cloud computing infrastructure, we selected Google Cloud, a partner that shares our commitment to 100% renewable electricity, for the Etsy marketplace. Their highly efficient data centers have helped us save significant overhead energy. For more information on our computing energy target and benefits of Google Cloud, please see page 24. We actively monitor and manage energy consumption from our computing infrastructure for the Etsy marketplace. For 2024, we estimate that our energy consumption in Google Cloud was 5,742 MWh, based on a methodology developed by Etsy and reviewed by industry experts (our Cloud Jewels methodology). Quantification of our cloud energy consumption is allowing us to meaningfully explore and activate levers of change to drive further cost and energy efficiencies in our computing footprint. Our 2024 hardware infrastructure energy footprint does not include Reverb or Depop as we are not currently able to calculate energy usage from AWS, but we do include the emissions from Reverb and Depops hardware infrastructure in our Scope 3 Purchased Goods and Services calculations. Data Privacy and Advertising Standards CG-EC-220a.2 Description of the policies and practices relating to behavioral advertising and user privacy. We care deeply about privacy and are committed to being upfront about our privacy practices, including how we treat personal information. Etsys Privacy Policy provides a detailed explanation of our privacy practices. Etsys Transparency Report also includes details of our Privacy Principles. Among other things, our Privacy Policy and Cookies & Similar Technologies Policy cover the user information that Etsy collects or receives, the choices and control that a user has in relation to their data including based on type and sensitivity by region and worldwide, the purpose for which Etsy uses such information (including first and third-party advertising purposes), our policies relating to our usage and sharing within Etsy, its affiliates and third-party partners, disclosures about third-party partner privacy policy and options, and user controls for sharing and controlling such information with third parties. Depop and Reverb each have separate policies in place that address similar privacy matters. 32 Table of Contents Data Security SASB Code Metric 2024 2023 2022 CG-EC-230a.1 Description of approach to identifying and addressing data security risks. Data security is overseen by our Chief Technology Officer assisted by our Chief Information Security Officer. We strive to protect sensitive information through various means, such as technical safeguards, procedural requirements and policies, an intensive program of monitoring on both our web platform and within our corporate network, regular testing of aspects of our security posture internally and with outside vendors, a robust incident response program, and regular training for employees. We report on a quarterly basis to the Risk Oversight Committee of the Board of Directors, assisting the Board of Directors with its oversight of technology and information security risks. Our Board also periodically participates in tabletop exercises conducted by senior management, with the assistance of outside counsel as needed, as part of risk management and disaster-related planning to validate, test, and assess the effectiveness and adequacy of certain roles and decision-making processes in the event of a cyber-incident. Further information can be found in our Data Privacy & Security policy on our Investor Relations site. Reverb and Depop also have similar policies that can be found on their respective websites. Employee Recruitment, Inclusion and Performance CG-EC-330a.1 Employee engagement as a percentage (Etsy marketplace) 65 % 80 % 77 % Employee engagement as a percentage (Reverb) 66 % 72 % 75 % Employee engagement as a percentage (Depop) 76 % 75 % 72 % Employee engagement as a percentage and discussion of methodology. In June 2024, we conducted separate engagement surveys of Etsy marketplace employees and Reverb employees. Of employees surveyed, 81% of Etsy marketplace and 92% of Reverb employees submitted a response, and 65% of Etsy respondents and 66% of Reverb respondents reported favorable employee engagement. The survey was conducted through the Culture Amp platform and consisted of 64 rating questions on which employees were asked to indicate their level of agreement with a statement based on a five-point scale from Strongly Agree to Strongly Disagree, and two free-text questions to which employees were asked to write out a response for Etsy marketplace. At Reverb, the Culture Amp survey consisted of 59 rating questions, and one free-text question. During December 2024, Depop conducted its most recent bi-annual engagement survey through Peakon. 71% of employees submitted a response, with a resulting engagement score of 7.6 (76%). This is the average score given by respondents to four key engagement questions, all of which are rated on a scale of 1-10. This score has been converted into a percentage based on the overall engagement score. For more information on our engagement scores see the Fostering Engaged Teams section on page 12. CG-EC-330a.3 Gender and racial/ethnic group representation for leadership, technical staff and other business functions See ESG Reporting: Our Impact Goals, Strategy, & ProgressSocialWorkforce Metrics for details starting on page 28. Discussion of diversity and inclusion strategy and performance See ESG Reporting: Our Impact Goals, Strategy, & ProgressSocialWorkforce Access section for details starting on page 26. CG-EC-330a.4 Percentage of technical employees who are H-1B visa holders 4.1 % 3.7 % 3.8 % Product Packaging and Distribution CG-EC-410a.1 Total greenhouse gas (GHG) footprint of product shipments in metric tons CO2e 260,522 276,559 339,395 Total GHG footprint of packaging in metric tons CO2e 77,865 56,826 57,911 CG-EC-410a.2 Discussion of strategies to reduce the environmental impact of product delivery. For information on our strategies related to reducing the environmental impact of product delivery see our Net Zero section on page 22 and Marketplace Sustainability section on page 25. 33 Table of Contents GHG Emissions Summary (tCO2e) GHG Emissions by Scope 2024 2023 2022 Scope 1 284 330 371 Scope 2 - Market Scope 2 - Location1 926 813 542 Scope 3 478,282 468,594 531,638 Scope 3 Emissions Intensity (tCO2e/ million $ gross profit) 235 246 293 Scope 3 GHG Emissions by Activity Source Category 1: Purchased Goods & Services2 Purchased Goods & Services (excluding Computing) 113,823 102,157 106,434 Cloud Computing - Google Cloud (Etsy marketplace) 10,040 15,397 12,054 Other Computing 2,109 2,012 1,836 Category 3: Fuel & Energy Related Activities3 Fuel & Energy Related Activities Not Included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 231 251 3,429 Category 5: Waste Generated in Operations Waste 5 6 5 Water 10 9 4 Category 6: Business Travel3 Air Travel 4,375 4,093 1,067 Other Business Travel 717 462 163 Category 7: Employee Commuting3 Commuting 552 344 1,042 Remote Workers 545 754 1,401 Category 9: Downstream Transportation & Distribution Shipping4 260,522 276,559 339,395 Packaging4 77,865 56,826 57,911 Category 11: Use of Sold Products3 End User Energy Use 7,488 9,724 6,897 Additional Environmental Metrics (unit of measure) Energy (Megawatt hours) Offices - Electricity 2,666 2,568 Offices - Heating 1,545 1,758 Remote Working - Electricity 1,737 2,106 Remote Working - Heating 1,809 1,871 Refrigerants (tCO2e included in Scope 1) 3 11 Etsy commissioned an external third-party to perform attest procedures with respect to our carbon and energy metrics for the reporting period. Full details and data methodology are available at investors.etsy.com. 34 Table of Contents Notes on Our GHG Inventory We note that the above emissions are not net of the application of carbon offsets. For the subsection of Scope 3 - Category 1, Cloud Computing - Google Cloud (Etsy marketplace only), in 2022 we calculated the emissions partly with data provided by Google and partly using our own calculation of their market-based emissions. Using Etsys Cloud Jewels methodology, we estimated our Google Cloud Platforms Scope 2 energy usage and with Googles agreement, retired RECs on behalf of this energy usage, thus reducing our supplier emissions from Google Cloud. In 2023, we made the following updates to our methodology for quantifying our GHG inventory: 1 We moved to a new carbon data management vendor allowing us to derive a portion of our quantified Scope 2 location-based emissions with different and more commonly used emissions factors, resulting in an increase of emissions compared to 2022. 2 Our new carbon data management vendor derived our emissions for Scope 3 - Category 1 and included calculations to account for inflation or deflation which resulted in a decrease in emissions due to spend amounts shrinking when adjusting the dollar value from 2022 to 2012. Our vendor also derived more supplier specific emissions factors based on publicly available data from some suppliers, resulting in a decrease in emissions as the emissions data from suppliers were lower than the average Environmental Protection Agency Environmentally Extended Input-Output factors previously used. Additionally, we updated our Google Cloud Platform emissions calculation by obtaining emissions data directly from Google, resulting in an increase in emissions as the data for Scope 2 Market-based emissions was higher than estimated in 2022. 3 We re-categorized emissions from upstream and fuel and energy related activities that were a result of Business Travel, Commuting, and End User Energy from Scope 3 Category 3 into Scope 3 Categories 6, 7, and 11 respectively, resulting in increased emissions in these categories and a decrease in Scope 3 Category 3 emissions. We note that this change did not have an impact on overall emissions as it is just a re-categorization. Additionally, in Scope 3 - Category 6, our calculation of Air Travel emissions was changed to include emissions from radiative force in the emissions factors, resulting in an increase in emissions, as radiative forcing includes calculations with a higher global warming potential than those without. In Scope 3 - Category 7, we updated our calculations for employee commuting to use data from government sources and data aggregators. Overall the changes in methodology in 2023 decreased our calculated emissions when compared to methodologies previously used. 4 In 2024, we updated the emissions factors that we use in our Scope 3 - Category 9 packaging emissions calculations to a more current source from Ecoinvent, switching from the Franklin Associates Oregon Department of Environmental Quality study. This caused an increase in emissions year-over-year. Additionally, for our packaging emissions calculation we included data from the usage of our planet friendly packaging program provided by EcoEnclose. For our Scope 3 - Category 9 shipping emissions in 2024, the emission factor applied in calculating the emissions for Depop shipments was derived from Depop emissions data provided by USPS, whereas in 2023 and 2022, the emission factor applied was derived from Etsy emissions data as a proxy. Additionally, for Etsy marketplace shipping calculations if the seller or buyer zip code for a shipment is not valid, then the average shipping distance of all Etsy shipments for that mail class for the reporting year is used to estimate the shipment distance, whereas in 2023 and 2022, the shipments were excluded from the reported Scope 3, Category 9 emissions. As a result of the above changes in scope, methodology, and our continued efforts at further accountability, some categories of emissions data are not comparable from year to year. Additional details regarding the scope and data methodologies used to calculate our GHG emissions data can be found on our Investor Relations website. 35 Table of Contents The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Etsy treats climate change and its related impacts seriously. Since 2020, we have reported enhanced climate-related disclosures in line with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations. TCFD provides a framework with four thematic areas Governance, Strategy, Risk Management, and Metrics and Targets and eleven recommended disclosures. The following disclosures provide information intended to address each recommendation, including references to other publicly available sources for related information. ESG and climate governance as well as our Impact Strategy are set at an Etsy, Inc. level and all disclosures in this section cover the Etsy, Reverb and Depop marketplaces (other than the results of our climate risk assessment which was limited to the Etsy marketplace). While we have identified and disclosed a number of relevant climate-related risks, we have determined that at this time none of these risks represent a material short-term risk to our business. For a discussion of certain risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Governance Board of Directors oversight of climate-related risks & opportunities Etsys full Board of Directors has overall responsibility for oversight of risk management at Etsy, including management of climate risk. In December 2023, the Risk Oversight Committee of our Board of Directors (ROC) was formed to assist our Board of Directors with its oversight of Etsys management of risk exposures and processes for monitoring and mitigating risk. Since its formation, the ROC has received regular briefings on risk management-related topics. The work of the Risk Steering Committee helps inform which risks are reported to the Board of Directors and to Board Committees. (For a description of the Risk Steering Committees activities, see below.) The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors (the N&CGC) has responsibility for periodic review of our environmental Impact goals and our progress towards those goals. We typically report on our progress towards our Impact goals to the N&CGC or the Board of Directors twice a year. The Board of Directors is responsible for reviewing significant acquisitions and other large scale capital expenditures. One of the criteria we use when evaluating acquisition opportunities is whether the transaction aligns with our mission, strategy, and values, including our Impact focus. In addition, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversees the disclosure in our Annual Report, which includes Impact disclosures, and our auditors review of our Impact disclosures. One member of our Board of Directors is experienced in sustainability accounting practices and is a SASB FSA Credential Holder. Information about Etsys Board of Directors and its Committees, including their charters and membership, is available in the Governance section of our Investor Relations website. Managements role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities Our Executive Team, including our Chief Executive Officer, reviews our environmental goals annually. Our Chief Financial Officer approves material capital expenditures, including those related to climate-related issues, such as renewable energy projects, and investments in verified emissions reductions. Oversight of climate risk at Etsy is supported by the Risk Steering Committee, a cross-functional management team which includes our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. This Committee meets at least quarterly to review and discuss the significant risks facing Etsy and its deliberations inform the risk management-related topics elevated to the Board of Directors and the Board Committees. Etsys Sustainability team, led by the Senior Director of Impact and Sustainability (the I&S Sr. Director), oversees Etsys sustainability strategy and implementation, which includes climate impacts. The I&S Sr. Director reports to the Chief Legal Officer, who is the Executive Sponsor for Etsys Impact strategy. The I&S Sr. Director presents progress on environmental metrics each quarter to the Senior Leadership Team, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. Etsy also has four cross-functional Impact Working Groups that all meet at least quarterly to manage the implementation of Impact projects and reporting. 36 Table of Contents Strategy Climate-related risks and opportunities identified & impact on strategy Etsys climate strategy is informed by periodic identification and prioritization of climate-related risks and opportunities, including preliminary work with respect to the double materiality assessment required under the E.U. CSRD. To date, while we have identified relevant climate risks, we have not identified any climate-related risks which are reasonably expected to have a material short-term impact on financial or strategic business operations. We believe that this is largely due to the Etsy marketplaces business model, the wide geographic distribution of our seller and buyer base, and our long-standing work to mitigate climate risks. However, due to the systemic nature of climate change and its intensifying global impacts, we are continuing to monitor and manage both climate-related risks and opportunities. The following disclosures highlight the climate-related impacts identified for the Etsy marketplace, as well as the ways in which our ESG strategy seeks to mitigate risks and leverage opportunities. We define short-term impacts as those expected to occur within 0-2 years, medium-term impacts as those expected to occur within 2-5 years, and long-term impacts as those expected to occur after 5 or more years. Etsys Impact goal-setting process considers these climate-related impacts. Identified Climate Opportunities & Management Response Class Opportunity Description Horizon Management Response Energy Source The availability of renewable energy solutions presents opportunities to reduce our exposure to fossil fuel price increases and reduce operating costs. Short-Term 100% Renewable Electricity See the Renewable Energy section above for more information on our renewable energy efforts. Resource Efficiency Reducing resource use across our offices offers opportunities to reduce operating costs while strengthening employee engagement and thus improving retention. Short-Term Energy Efficiency Our efforts to meet our goal of a 25% reduction in the intensity of our energy use in Etsy marketplace offices and for computing by 2025 has reduced the impact of fuel price increases. This includes our participation in the NYC Mayors Carbon Challenge and exemplified by our Brooklyn Headquarters New York City Building Energy Grade of a B. Our energy efficiency goals also present opportunities for our Systems Architect, Sustainability to innovate new energy efficiency tools and processes and to enhance brand value through vendor partnerships. Zero Waste See the Zero Waste section on page 24 for more information on our waste management program. Resource Efficiency Regulatory policies that promote lower-emission modes of transport support our goals of achieving net zero, which may improve our reputation, reduce costs from carbon offsets, and help drive revenue growth. Medium-Term Low-Emissions Transport A significant portion of our Scope 3 emissions come from shipping. We recognize that decarbonization of the transportation sector presents an opportunity for us to achieve ambitious emissions reduction goals and strengthen our reputation. Our Advocacy Team advocates for national and regional policies that have the potential to accelerate the decarbonization of the transportation sector. We are especially focused on policies in the United States that aim to improve electrification infrastructure and reduce emissions from heavy- and medium-duty vehicles that are important in e-commerce logistics. Reputation Changing consumer preferences around sustainable shopping present opportunities for us to differentiate as a values-driven commerce brand. Medium-Term Customer Engagement See the Marketplace Sustainability section on page25 for an overview of the steps were taking to help sellers highlight their more sustainable items and enhance buyers ability to shop their values. Strengthening and communicating our Impact work including emissions reduction initiatives presents an opportunity to attract and retain talent and enhance relationships with our communities. Short-Term External Constituencies We continue to provide robust ESG disclosures for investors and other constituencies. 37 Table of Contents Identified Climate Risks & Management Response Category Class Risk Description Horizon Management Response Physical Acute Extreme weather events have the potential to: impact sellers' ability to make and/or ship items to and displace buyers, which could temporarily decrease supply and/or demand and disrupt transit times; place our offices at risk, or negatively impact the operations of our third-party service providers. Medium- and Long- Term Seller Operations As natural disasters increase in intensity and frequency, we are finding that our sellers and buyers are correspondingly more frequently impacted. See our Helping Our Sellers Build Climate Resilience section on page 26 for more details. Etsys Operations Our Workplace and Security Team develops and implements business continuity plans through our Health, Safety, and Security program that are intended to protect our employees in the event of physical disruptions at our offices. Transition Policy and Legal/ Tech New laws and regulations could increase direct operational costs to us in the short-term while stricter environmental regulations may place new burdens on our sellers raising their costs in the medium-term. Short- and Medium-Term Regulations on Etsy ESG and environmental disclosure regulations are increasing globally. As a result of the evolving regulatory requirements, we have expanded our standalone ESG reporting, including under the California Voluntary Carbon Market Disclosures Act and CSR laws in India. These reports can be found in the Governance section of our Investor Relations webpage. In addition, our cross-functional ESG Disclosure Working Group strives to stay abreast of any new disclosure regulations that are potentially relevant to our business. Where needed, such as for CSRD, we may stand up new working groups to better understand the regulation and develop an action plan. Regulations on Sellers Our Advocacy Team works to mitigate transition risks for sellers by advocating for public policies that increase economic security and reduce administrative burdens for creative entrepreneurs. Market Increased commodity prices due to climate change may increase production costs for sellers and/ or increase our operational costs. Long-Term Commodity Markets Our analysis indicated that the availability of commodities used by sellers, such as cotton, may face risks due to extreme weather. Due to our marketplaces broad assortment of items, we do not anticipate disproportionate short-term impacts on our business. We purchase carbon offsets to cover Etsy, Inc.s quantified annual emissions. Our research shows that under lower emissions scenarios, the price of carbon offsets is expected to increase dramatically. We mitigate this risk through multi-year off-take agreements while focusing on emissions reduction in line with our Net Zero target. Reputation External stakeholder expectations may shift, raising questions about our current impact efforts. Failure to meet employee expectations on Impact could affect recruitment, retention, and engagement of top talent. Medium-Term External Perceptions We continue to focus on aligning our Impact and Sustainability efforts with our business strategy to drive business value. Employee Perceptions We track how employees view Etsys role in driving Impact and whether they believe Etsy is meeting expectations. Through our aforementioned efforts, we aim to ensure the gap between expectations and reality remains narrow. Resilience of strategy across different climate-related scenarios Over the past few years, we have worked with two external vendors to assess current climate-related impacts and understand how they might change under different temperature pathways over time. In 2021, we conducted a qualitative scenario analysis in key markets across Etsy marketplaces operations and marketplace activities while in 2022 and 2023 we conducted more quantitative scenario analysis focused on physical risks to our U.S. and U.K. business and key partners. As part of these analyses, exposure pathways were mapped to prioritized climate-related issues based on the Etsy marketplaces business model, data availability, and internal stakeholder input. We used a range of representative concentration pathway (RCP) scenarios, with the lowest emissions scenario being RCP2.6 and the highest emission scenario being RCP8.5, as well as models and reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Available climate scenario inputs and results were then collated and overlaid with the Etsy marketplaces seller and buyer information in the United States and United Kingdom as well as key partner locations, allowing the analysis to pinpoint areas of concern. 38 Table of Contents Through this analysis we found that many key geographies are expected to face some degree of climate risk under different scenarios. However, because the Etsy marketplaces buyer and seller base is distributed globally, we do not expect physical climate risks in any one geography to disproportionately impact the business under any scenario in the short to medium-term. In addition, we believe our strategy, articulated above, will help us reduce transition risks associated with a 2 degree or lower scenario. We aim to continue improving our data collection and analysis on these topics to improve our understanding of long-term climate-related risks, quantify opportunities and, if necessary, update our strategic planning. Risk Management Processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks Our climate risk identification and assessment process is integrated into our company-wide risk management. We use a mix of consultant support, third-party physical risk modeling, and public data to ground our research and risk analysis. Once a risk is identified, our Sustainability Team, including the I&S Sr. Director and the Sr. Sustainability Manager, engage relevant internal risk owners to evaluate the risk, assess existing controls, and, when necessary, escalate for oversight by senior management through Etsys Risk Steering Committee (see Governance in this section above for more detail). For example, the Sustainability Team collaborates with the Advocacy Team to review climate policy proposals at the U.S. federal and state level and in key non-U.S. jurisdictions that might impact Etsy, with the Analytics Team to monitor natural disaster impacts on buyers and sellers, and with the Sourcing Team to review climate-related risks within our supplier base. Processes for managing climate-related risks The Sustainability Team works cross-functionally to develop management plans to address potential climate-related impacts. They develop and propose updates to environmental goals on an annual basis, including goals designed to mitigate climate risks, which are reviewed and approved by our Executive Team. For example, our goal to source 100% renewable electricity for office operations and computing load reduces our exposure to carbon pricing and volatile energy prices. The Sustainability Team developed the goal, proposed short-term targets and strategies to measure and reach those targets, and solicited approval from the Executive Team, who ensured resources were provisioned and lines of accountability were appropriately set. Processes for integrating climate-related risks into the overall risk management At Etsy, climate-related risks are managed as part of ESG risk and are seen as both underlying drivers of other types of risks as well as standalone risks. These risks, as well as their drivers, are monitored by the Sustainability Team. The I&S Sr. Director provides a written status update on potential ESG risks to Etsys Risk Steering Committee typically quarterly. The work of the Risk Steering Committee helps inform which risks are reported to the Board of Directors. Metrics and Targets Metrics used to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with strategy and risk management process We monitor metrics related to our public environmental targets including total energy consumed, renewable energy percent, grid electricity percent, Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions including product shipments, packaging, end-user energy use, water, and outgoing waste material streams. For a historical view of our metrics, please view pages 32-35 of this Annual Report. Internally, we track a number of additional climate-related metrics. For example, in 2024 we invested in carbon credits to offset our quantified Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions, which effectively acts as an internal price on our emissions. Additionally, we track the voluntary carbon market costs and carbon credit cost savings from specific emissions reduction activities. Related to natural disasters, we track GMS impacts from FEMA designated natural disasters as well as the percentage of our sellers and buyers in regions exposed to extreme weather events. For all of our employees, compensation is tied to our financial performance, as well as individual contributions. While responsibility for delivering on our Impact goals is distributed across the Company, each goal owner is responsible for incorporating work associated with advancing their goal into team members individual goals, which are considered when making compensation decisions. Members of our Executive Team also serve as executive sponsors for specific Impact goals to help ensure teams stay on track and have the value of executive leadership as plans are executed. For more information on our Executive Teams goals, please see our Proxy Statement. Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 GHG emissions, and the related risks Please view pages 22-23 and 32-35 of this Annual Report for our GHG Emissions Summary. Targets used to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets We have four climate-related targets: science-based emissions reduction, renewable energy, total energy use, and waste. Details of these targets including actions taken as part of our efforts to achieve them and performance against each can be found on pages 22-23 of this Annual Report. 39 Table of Contents Available Information We are subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act), and file or furnish reports, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, proxy statements, and other information with the SEC. These reports are available free of charge on our website at investors.etsy.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. We also share certain workforce metrics, such as our most recent consolidated EEO-1 report, our annual Transparency Report, and our external facing policies, including our governance policies and guidelines, privacy policy and marketplace rules on our investor relations website. Information contained on or accessible through our websites or other websites referenced in this Annual Report is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of, this Annual Report or any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites in this Annual Report are intended to be inactive textual references only. You should not rely on such information in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Copies of our SEC reports and other documents are also available, without charge, by sending a letter to Investor Relations, Etsy, Inc., 117 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201, or by sending an email to ir@etsy.com. Our SEC reports are also available on the SECs website at www.sec.gov free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we have filed or furnished them to the SEC. 40 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, and the other information in this Annual Report. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. As a result, the price of our securities could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. In addition, factors other than those discussed below or in other of our reports filed with or furnished to the SEC also could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects. We cannot assure you that the risk factors described below or elsewhere in our reports address all potential risks that we may face. These risk factors also serve to describe factors which may cause our results to differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements included herein or in other documents or statements that make reference to this Annual Report. For more information, see the Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Operational Risks Related to Our Business Our quarterly operating results have and may continue to fluctuate, which can cause significant stock price fluctuations. Our quarterly operating results, as well as our key metrics, have and may continue to fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control, including: inflation, interest rates, recessionary factors, foreign exchange rate volatility, tariffs and other trade barriers, disruptions to the banking industry, changing consumer shopping preferences, continued pressure on consumer discretionary product spending, weather, domestic and global geopolitical uncertainties, various types of cultural events, public health crises, supply-chain disruptions, an increasingly competitive retail environment, and employment levels, among other factors (collectively, Macro Conditions). fluctuations in our GMS or revenue, including as a result of Macro Conditions, the seasonality of market transactions, and our sellers use of services; uncertainty regarding overall levels of consumer spending and e-commerce generally; our success in attracting and retaining sellers and buyers; our ability to convert marketplace visits into sales for our sellers; our ability to manage our operating expenses and our Adjusted EBITDA margin as we continue to invest in our marketplaces; our success in executing on our strategy and the impact of any changes in our strategy; the timing and success of product launches, including new services and features we may introduce; the success of our marketing efforts; the success of our House of Brands strategy; disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, such as privacy or data security breaches, errors in our software, or other incidents that impact the availability, reliability, or performance of our platforms; the impact of competitive developments and our response to those developments; and our ability to recruit and retain employees. These events may also impact our sellers ability to run their businesses on our marketplaces, which could negatively impact our business and financial performance. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, key metrics, and the price of our common stock may be particularly pronounced during periods of economic uncertainty, including uncertainty caused by Macro Conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary items, including the goods that we offer, generally decline during recessionary periods or periods of economic uncertainty, when disposable income is reduced or when there is a reduction in consumer confidence. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or acute recession, significant inflation, or increased supply chain disruptions impacting our communities of sellers and the economy as a whole, consumer spending habits could be materially and adversely affected, as could our business, financial condition, operating results, and ability to execute and capitalize on our strategies. We believe that our quarterly operating results and key metrics may vary in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on quarter-to-quarter or any other period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of future performance. 41 Table of Contents We may fail to meet our publicly announced guidance or other expectations about our business and future operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our guidance includes forward-looking statements based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are based on information known when they are issued. While presented with numerical specificity, projections are inherently subject to significant business, economic, and competitive uncertainties and contingencies relating to our business, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions and developments, some of which may prove incorrect and/or may change. Some of those key assumptions include the timing and impact of broad Macro Conditions, particularly in our core markets, and the resulting impact of these factors on future consumer spending patterns and our business. These assumptions are inherently difficult to predict, particularly in the long term. We generally state possible outcomes as high and low ranges, which are intended to provide a sensitivity analysis as variables are changed, but are not intended to imply that actual results could not fall outside of the suggested ranges. Furthermore, analysts and investors develop and publish their own projections for our business, which may form a consensus about our future performance. Our actual business results may vary significantly from such guidance or consensus due to Macro Conditions or other factors, many of which are outside of our control, which could adversely affect our business and future operating results. Furthermore, if we make downward revisions of our previously announced guidance, or if our publicly announced guidance of future operating results fails to meet expectations of securities analysts, investors, or other interested parties as it has in the past, the price of our common stock could decline. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and guidance offered in periods of significant uncertainty is inherently more speculative in nature than guidance offered in periods of relative stability. It can be expected that some or all of the assumptions underlying the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results may vary from our guidance and the variations may be material. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put our guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it in making an investment decision regarding our common stock. The trustworthiness of our marketplaces and the connections within our communities are important to our success. If we are unable to retain our existing buyers and sellers and activate new ones, our financial performance could decline. Creating trusted brands is one of the key elements of our strategy. We are focused on ensuring that our marketplaces embody our mission and values, and that we deliver trust and reliability throughout the buyer and seller experiences. Our reputation and brands depend, in part, upon our ability to maintain trustworthy marketplaces, and also upon our sellers, the quality of their offerings, their adherence to our policies, and their ability to deliver a trusted purchasing experience. We view the trustworthiness and reliability of our marketplaces, as well as the connections we foster in our buyer/seller communities, to be cornerstones of our business and key to our success. Many things could undermine these cornerstones, such as: a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our guiding principles and mission; an inability to gain the trust of prospective buyers; disruptions or defects in our marketplaces, privacy or data security incidents, website outages, payment disruptions, or other incidents that impact the reliability of our platforms; lack of awareness of, or adherence to, our policies by our communities or confusion about how they are applied; a failure to enforce our policies effectively, consistently, and transparently, including, for example, by allowing the repeated widespread listing of prohibited items in our marketplaces; changes to our policies or fees that members of our communities perceive as inconsistent with their best interests or our mission, or that are not clearly articulated; complaints or negative publicity about us, our platforms, or our policies and guidelines, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents; inadequacies in our House Rules, policies, and other terms of use; frequent product launches, updates, and experiments that could deteriorate member trust and/or engagement; or inadequate or unsatisfactory customer service experiences, failure to adequately respond to feedback from our communities, or failure of our sellers to fulfill their orders in accordance with our policies, including as a result of fraud, their own shop-specific policies, or buyer expectations. We are and may continue to be an attractive target to bad actors and fraudsters targeting our marketplaces and our communities. There have been and may continue to be attempts to impersonate, exploit, misrepresent or mischaracterize us or 42 Table of Contents our marketplaces, such as on social media, or via individual or coordinated spam or other campaigns. We are not always successful in defending against these types of tactics which, when successful, could cause buyers and sellers to lose trust in our marketplaces, and could lead to fewer active buyers and/or sellers or otherwise damage our brands and our business. Even if we are successful in defending against these tactics, we may be required to spend significant resources in those efforts which may distract our management and otherwise negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, the recent increased scrutiny and regulation of marketplace platforms, though principally focused on other larger platforms, has and may continue to create burdens on both Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. This may lead to increased risks that shift more quickly than our policies, enforcement mechanisms, and systems can react. Our controls over fraud and policy violations are important to maintaining user trust, but they may not be adequate and may not be sufficient to keep up with quickly-shifting techniques used by those attempting to undertake fraudulent activity on our platforms. The use of increasingly sophisticated techniques has made, and may continue to make, fraudulent activity by sellers and buyers increasingly difficult to combat and increase its impact. We take action against sellers who we are aware may have violated our policies or engage in fraud. The volume of enforcement actions against sellers for such activities has increased at times, and may increase again in the future. Furthermore, our actions may be insufficient, may not be timely, and may not be effective in creating a good purchase experience for our buyers or avoiding negative publicity. While we regularly update our processes for handling complaints and detecting policy violations and fraud, these processes are by their nature imperfect in a dynamic marketplace, and include risks to us, our sellers, and our buyers from both under-enforcement and over-enforcement, as well as potentially heightened friction on our marketplaces, which may reduce seller and buyer trust and engagement. We continue to evolve our marketplaces and invest to improve our customer experience. If our efforts are unsuccessful, or if our customer service platforms or our trust and safety program fail to meet legal requirements or buyers and sellers expectations, we may need to invest in significant additional resources. If we are unable to maintain trusted brands and marketplaces, our ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers could be harmed. Our business, financial performance, and growth depends on our ability to attract and retain active and engaged communities of buyers and sellers. Our financial performance, specifically our GMS, revenue, and Adjusted EBITDA, has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in attracting and retaining active buyers and active sellers and increasing their engagement. We believe that many new buyers and sellers find us by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing buyers and sellers. If existing buyers do not find our platforms appealing, for example, because of a negative experience, lack of competitive shipping charges, delayed shipping times, inadequate customer service, buyer fees or lack of buyer-friendly features, declining interest in the goods offered by our sellers, lack of desirable inventory, or other factors, they may make fewer purchases and they may not refer others to us. Likewise, if existing sellers are dissatisfied with their experience on our platforms, or feel they have more attractive alternatives, they may stop listing items in our marketplaces and using our services and may stop referring others to us, which could negatively impact our financial performance. Further, if trends supporting self-employment and the desire for supplemental income were to reverse, the number of sellers offering their goods in our marketplaces and the number of goods listed in our marketplaces could decline. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for our sellers and buyers are inadequate could damage our reputation, and reduce our sellers willingness to sell and buyers willingness to shop on our marketplaces. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse our buyers for their purchases to help avoid harm to our reputation. For example, we offer Etsy Purchase Protection, a program that refunds buyers when a qualifying order is not received, is not as described, or arrives late or damaged. While we cover the reimbursement for qualifying orders under Etsy Purchase Protection, we also take steps to cover certain reimbursements that do not relate to qualified orders, such as requiring reserves from some sellers based on indications they may not be able to fulfill orders and other factors. Depop and Reverb have similar programs. Our cost to refund qualifying orders may exceed our expectations, and despite our efforts, we are not always, and in the future may not be, able to recover the funds we expend for reimbursements unrelated to qualified orders, both of which could impact our financial performance. When we do recover buyer refund amounts from sellers, it may increase general seller dissatisfaction and reduce their desire to continue selling using our platforms. Although we are focused on enhancing customer service, our efforts may be unsuccessful, and our sellers and buyers may be disappointed in their experience and not return. In addition, our GMS and revenue are concentrated in our most active buyers and sellers.If we lose a significant number of buyers or sellers, or our buyers or sellers do not maintain their level of activity for any reason, our financial performance could be harmed. Even if we are able to attract new buyers and sellers to replace the ones that we may lose, we may not be able to do so at comparable levels, they may not maintain the same level of activity, and the GMS and revenue generated from new buyers and sellers may not be as high as the GMS and revenue generated from the ones who leave, or reduce their activity level on our marketplaces. If we are unable to attract and retain buyers and sellers, or our buyers or sellers do not maintain their level of activity, our business and financial performance could be harmed. Additionally, the demand for the goods listed in our marketplaces is dependent on consumer preferences and available discretionary spending, which can and do change quickly and may differ across generations, genders, and cultures. If demand for the goods that our sellers offer declines, or if demand for goods falls and is not replaced by demand in new or different categories, we may not be able to attract and retain buyers and our business could be harmed. Further, a shift in trends away from unique or vintage goods, socially-conscious consumerism, second-hand fashion, or specialty items such as musical 43 Table of Contents instruments, could also make it more difficult to attract new buyers and sellers. Under any of these circumstances, we may have difficulty attracting new buyers and sellers without incurring additional expense. We rely on our sellers to provide a fulfilling experience to our buyers. Our sellers manage their shops, certain shop policies, products and product descriptions, shipping, and returns. As a result, we do not have the ability to control important aspects of buyers experiences on our platforms. For example, buyers may report that they have not received the items they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by a seller, or that a seller has not been responsive to their questions. While we have introduced features designed to protect buyers, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improve overall buyer satisfaction. Further, negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints, or any associated enforcement action taken against sellers, could reduce our ability to attract and retain our sellers and buyers or damage our reputation. In addition, anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to our buyers could harm our sellers. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of our sellers, such as interruptions in order or payment processing, interruptions in sellers supply chains, transportation disruptions, customs delays, natural disasters, inclement weather, terrorism, public health crises, political unrest, or geopolitical conflict. Additionally, popular or trending sellers may experience an influx of orders that may be beyond their ability to fulfill in a timely manner. While we have procedures designed to mitigate spikes in orders, we cannot guarantee those procedures will be effective. If buyers have a negative purchase experience, whether due to service interruptions or other reasons, or if sellers are unable to timely fulfill their orders from buyers, our reputation could be harmed. We track certain operational metrics with internal systems and tools or manual processes and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of these metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may adversely affect our business and reputation. We track certain operational metrics, including active buyers and active sellers, GMS, GMS from specific categories of goods, classes of buyers or sellers, or specific platforms, and other information about our communities and the performance of our platforms, with internal systems and tools or manual processes. These metrics are not independently verified by a third party. The methodologies used to measure certain of these metrics require significant judgment, are susceptible to errors, may change over time, and may differ from estimates or metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the underlying assumptions. We also use surveys to collect and track information about our buyers and sellers and rely on third-party data, which we do not independently verify, to evaluate and report on our opportunity. Our internal systems, tools, and processes and our surveys or data collection methodologies have a number of limitations, may have errors or could change over time, any of which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we publicly disclose. Similarly, our third-party data sources have in the past and may in the future revise the historical data provided as a result of adjustments to their prior estimates or for other reasons. If the internal systems and tools, processes, or surveys we use to track these metrics under count or over count performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our metrics, there are inherent challenges in measuring this data. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data or with respect to the data that we measure or obtain from third parties may affect our understanding of certain details of our business or our opportunity, which could affect our long-term strategies. If our operating metrics are not accurate, or if investors do not perceive them to be accurate, investors may lose confidence in our operating metrics and business, and we expect that we could be subject to legal claims, and our business, reputation, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we experience a technology disruption or failure that results in a loss of information, if personal data or sensitive information about members of our communities or employees is misused or disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are unable to protect against software and hardware vulnerabilities, service interruptions, cyber-related events, ransomware, security incidents, or other security breaches, then members of our communities may curtail use of our platforms, we may be exposed to liability or incur additional expenses, and our reputation might suffer. Like all online services, we are vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures, and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, break-ins, intentional or accidental actions or inaction by employees or others with authorized access to our networks, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, malicious or destructive code, malware, ransomware or other extortion attacks, and other cyber attacks, breaches and security incidents. We regularly experience cyber-related events that may result in technology disruptions and/or security breaches, including intentional, inadvertent, or social engineering breaches occurring through Etsy or third-party service provider technical issues, vulnerabilities, or employees. Any of these occurrences could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of one or more of our platforms, loss of data, unauthorized disclosure of personal or financial information of our members or employees, or theft of our intellectual property or user data. Furthermore, if our employees, contractors, or third-party service providers fail to comply with our internal security policies and practices, member or employee data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. Additionally, employees, contractors, or service providers have and may inadvertently misconfigure resources or misdirect certain communications in manners that may lead to security incidents, which 44 Table of Contents could be expensive and time-consuming to correct. As we strive to reignite growth in our business, expand internationally, and gain greater public visibility, we may continue to face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber attacks. Although we have integrated a variety of processes, technologies, and controls to assist in our efforts to assess, identify, and manage material cybersecurity-related risks, these are not exhaustive, and we cannot assure that they will be adequate to prevent or detect service interruption, system failure, data loss or theft, or other material adverse consequences, directly or through our vendors. Additionally, these measures have not always been in the past, and in the future may not be, sufficient to prevent or detect a cyber attack, system failure, or security breach particularly given the increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers, state actors, organized cyber criminals, and cyber terrorists. The costs and effort to respond to a security breach and/or to mitigate any security vulnerabilities that may be identified could be significant, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful, and these problems could result in unexpected interruptions, delays, cessation of service, negative publicity, negative seller or buyer sentiment, and other harm to our business and our competitive position. We could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices in response to a security breach or related regulatory actions or litigation, which would have an adverse effect on our business. Our production systems rely on internal technology, along with cloud services and software provided by our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain). In the event of a cyber-related incident, even partial unavailability of our production systems could impair our ability to serve our customers, manage transactions, or operate our marketplaces. We have implemented disaster recovery mechanisms, including systems to back up key data and production systems, but these systems may be inadequate or incomplete. For example, these disaster recovery systems may be susceptible to cyber-related events if insufficiently distributed across locations, not sufficiently separated from primary systems, not comprehensive, or not at a scale sufficient to replace our primary systems. Insufficient production and disaster recovery systems could, in the event of a cyber-related incident, harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. Cyber attacks aimed at disrupting our and our third-party service providers services regularly occur, and we expect they will continue to occur in the future. If we or our third-party service providers (and other entities in our supply chain) experience any cyber attacks or other security breaches or incidents that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or loss, compromise or unauthorized disclosure or use of personal data or other sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches or incidents that we may experience, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us. We also rely on the security practices of our third-party service providers, which may be outside of our direct control. Additionally, some of our third-party service providers, such as identity verification and payment processing providers, regularly have access to payment card information and other confidential and sensitive member data. We may have contractual and regulatory obligations to supervise the security and privacy practices of our third-party service providers. Despite our best efforts, if these third parties fail to adhere to adequate security practices, or, as has occurred from time to time in the past, experience a cyber-related event or attack such as a breach of their networks, our members data may be rendered unavailable, improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. More generally, our third-party service providers may not have adequate security and privacy controls, may not properly exercise their compliance, regulatory or notification requirements, including as to personal data, or may not have the resources to properly respond to an incident. Many of our service providers continue to operate in a partial or fully remote work environment and may, as a result, be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. Consequently, a security incident at any of such service providers or others in our supply chain could result in the loss, compromise, or unauthorized access to or disclosure of sensitive or personal data of our buyers or sellers. In addition, the industry has generally moved to online remote infrastructure for core work and, as a result, we and our partners may be more vulnerable to cyber attacks. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event that impacted our employees ability to work remotely were to occur, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to operate our business for a substantial period of time. The prevalence of remote working for employees, vendors, or contractors may also result in increased consumer privacy, IT security, and fraud concerns or increased administrative costs. A successful cyber attack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected. Because the techniques used by hackers change frequently, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, because any investigation of a cybersecurity incident would be inherently unpredictable, the extent of a particular cybersecurity incident and the path of investigating the incident may not be immediately clear. It may take a significant amount of time before an investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated, and communication to the public, regulators, members of our communities, and other stakeholders may be inaccurate or incomplete, any or all of which could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident. Applicable rules regarding how to respond, required notices to users, and reporting to regulators and investors vary by jurisdiction, and may subject us to additional liability and reputational harm. If we experience, or are perceived to experience, security breaches that result in marketplace performance or availability problems or the loss, compromise or unauthorized disclosure of personal data or other sensitive information, or if we fail to respond appropriately to any security breaches that we may experience, or are perceived to do so, people may become unwilling to provide us the information necessary to set up an account with us to become a new seller or buyer. Existing sellers and buyers 45 Table of Contents may also stop listing new items for sale, decrease their purchases, or close their accounts altogether. We could also face damage to our reputation, potential liability, regulatory investigations in multiple jurisdictions, and costly remediation efforts and litigation, which may not be adequately covered by, and which may impact our future access to, insurance. Any of these results could harm our growth prospects, our business, and our reputation for maintaining trusted marketplaces. Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors. The software underlying our platforms is highly interconnected and complex. It contains vulnerabilities and may contain undetected errors that may only be discovered after the code has been released. We rely heavily on a software engineering practice known as continuous deployment, meaning that we frequently release software code to our platforms. For the Etsy marketplace platform we typically release software code many times per day. This practice may result in the more frequent introduction of errors or vulnerabilities into the software underlying our platforms, which can impact the user experience and functionality of our marketplaces. Additionally, due to the interconnected nature of the software underlying our platforms, updates to parts of our code, third-party and open source code, and application programming interfaces, on which we rely and that maintain the functionality of our marketplaces and business, could have an unintended impact on other sections of our code, which may result in errors or vulnerabilities to our platforms that negatively impact the user experience, functionality or accessibility of our marketplaces. In some cases, such as our mobile apps, errors may only be correctable through updates distributed through slower, third-party mechanisms, such as app stores, and may need to comply with third-party policies and procedures to be made available, which may add additional delays due to app review and user delay in updating their mobile apps. In addition, our systems are increasingly reliant on artificial intelligence, machine learning systems, and large language models, which are complex, subject to increasing litigation and regulatory scrutiny, and may have errors or inadequacies that are not easily detectable. In some instances, we may make use of third-party artificial intelligence models, including foundational models, that have been pre-trained on data which may be insufficient, erroneous, stale, contain biased information, or infringe intellectual property or other rights. These models may inadvertently reduce our efficiency, or may cause unintentional or unexpected outputs that are incorrect, do not match our business goals, do not comply with our policies or applicable legal requirements, including the E.U. Artificial Intelligence Act and similar U.S. state and international regulations, or otherwise are inconsistent with our brands, guiding principles, and mission. Any errors or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could also result in damage to our reputation, loss of members of our communities, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our growth prospects and our business. We rely on Google Cloud for a substantial portion of the computing, storage, data processing, networking, and other services for the Etsy Marketplace. A significant disruption of or interference with our use of Google Cloud would negatively impact our operations and seriously harm our business. Google Cloud provides a distributed computing infrastructure as a service platform for the Etsy marketplaces business operations. Our products and services rely in significant part on continued access to, and the continued stability, reliability, and flexibility of Google Cloud. Any significant disruption of, or interference with, our use of Google Cloud would negatively impact our operations, and our business would be seriously harmed. In addition, if hosting costs increase over time, and if we require more computing or storage capacity, our costs could increase disproportionately. If we are unable to grow our revenues faster than the cost of utilizing the services of Google or similar providers, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Further, any transition of the cloud services currently provided by Google Cloud to another cloud provider would be difficult to implement and would cause us to incur significant time and expense. Reverb and Depop rely on Amazon Web Services for their primary production environment, and those marketplaces are thus subject to analogous risks. Our business depends on third-party services and technology that we utilize to maintain and scale the technology underlying our platforms and our business operations. Our business operations depend upon a number of third-party service providers, such as cloud service providers, marketing platforms and providers, payments and shipping providers, contingent labor teams, and network and mobile infrastructure providers. Any disruption in the services provided by third parties, any failure on their part to deliver their services in accordance with our scale and expectations, or any failure on our part to maintain appropriate oversight on these third-party providers during the course of our engagement with them, or appropriate redundancies, could significantly harm our business. We are unable to exercise significant oversight over some of these providers, which increases our vulnerability to their financial conditions and to problems with the services they provide, such as technical failures, deprecation of key services, privacy and/or security concerns, and we have from time to time experienced such problems with the services provided by one or more third parties. Our efforts to update our infrastructure or supply chain may not be successful as we may not sufficiently distribute our risk across providers or geographies or our efforts to do so may take longer than anticipated. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or supply chain or do not expand our technology infrastructure or supply chain successfully, then our ability to run our marketplaces could be significantly impacted, which could harm our business. In addition, our sellers rely on continued and unimpeded access to postal services and shipping carriers to deliver their goods reliably and timely to buyers. Our sellers have at times experienced transportation service disruptions and delays in the delivery of their goods. If these shipping delays continue or worsen, or if shipping rates increase significantly, our sellers may have increased costs, and/or our buyers may have a poor purchasing experience and may lose trust in our marketplaces, which could negatively impact our business, financial performance, and growth prospects. 46 Table of Contents Our business depends on access to third-party services, platforms, and infrastructure that are critical to the successful operation of our business. Our sellers and buyers rely on access to the internet or mobile networks to access our marketplaces. We also depend on widely adopted third-party platforms to reach our customers, such as popular mobile, social, search, and advertising offerings. Internet service providers may choose to disrupt or degrade access to our platforms or increase the cost of such access. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on the ability to download and use our mobile apps or deny or condition access to application programming interfaces or documentation, limiting the functionality of our products or services on the platform, including in ways that could require us to make significant changes to our marketplaces, websites, or mobile apps. If we are not able to deliver a rewarding experience on these platforms, if our or our sellers access to these platforms is limited, if the cost or terms of accessing these platforms increases or changes, or if these large platforms implement features that compete with us or our sellers, then our business may suffer. Internet service providers, mobile network operators, operating system providers and/or app stores regularly place technical and policy restrictions on applications and platforms that use their services, which restrictions change over time. They have also and could in the future attempt to charge us for, or restrict our ability to access or provide access to, certain platforms, features, or functionality that we use in our business, and such changes may adversely affect our marketplaces. In addition, the success of our marketplaces has at times and could in the future also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as actions taken by providers of mobile and desktop operating systems, social networks, or search and advertising platforms, including: policy changes that interfere with, add tolls or costs to, or otherwise limit our ability to provide users with a full experience of our platforms, such as for our mobile apps or social network presence, including policy changes that effectively require us to use the providers payment processing or other services for transactions on the providers operating system, network, or platform; unfavorable treatment received by our platforms, especially as compared to competing platforms, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs to distribute or use our platforms via mobile apps, social networks, or established search and advertising systems; changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps, our understanding of the data and usage related to our services, or that give preferential treatment to competitive products; changes to social networks that degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of our services or our sellers shops and products; or implementation and interpretation of regulatory or industry standards by these widely adopted platforms that, as a side effect, degrade the e-commerce functionality, features, or marketing of our services or our sellers shops and products. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth prospects. Our payments systems have both operational and compliance risks, including in-house execution risk and dependency on third-party providers. The payment offerings provided on each of our marketplaces differ and, as such, are subject to varying degrees and types of risk. In particular, each payment offering has a different level of reliance on third parties to perform certain aspects of its services. We have invested, and plan to continue to invest, in our payments tools and infrastructure, and have, or may in the future, add or change payment tools and third-party service providers to maintain existing availability, expand into additional markets, and offer new payment methods, offerings, and tools to our buyers and sellers. If we fail to invest adequate resources into our payments platforms, or if our investment efforts are unsuccessful or unreliable, our payments services may not function properly, keep pace with competitive offerings, or comply with applicable laws and regulatory requirements, any of which could negatively impact their usage and our marketplaces, as well as our trusted brands, which, in turn, could adversely affect our GMS and results of operations. We rely upon third-party service providers to perform key functions for our payments platforms, including payments processing and payments disbursing, compliance, currency exchange, identity verification, sanctions screening, tax collection, and fraud analysis. Failure of these service providers to perform adequately, or changes to or termination of our relationships with these service providers, has and could again negatively affect our sellers ability to receive payments. For example, in the first quarter of 2023, Silicon Valley Bank, one of our payment disbursement providers, collapsed and, as a result, approximately 0.5% of our active sellers experienced a delay (generally one business day) receiving their payments while we engineered a new process flow to enable those sellers to receive payments from another disbursement account. 47 Table of Contents Disruptions related to our third-party service providers could also potentially affect our sellers ability to receive orders, our buyers ability to complete purchases, and our ability to operate our payments program, including maintaining certain compliance measures, including fraud prevention and detection tools. This could decrease revenue, increase costs, lead to potential legal liability, and negatively impact our brands and business. If we (or a third-party payment processor) suffer a security breach affecting payment card information, we could be subjected to fines, penalties, and assessments arising out of the major card brands rules and regulations, contractual indemnification obligations or other obligations contained in merchant agreements and similar contracts, and we may lose our ability to accept payment cards as payment for our services and our sellers goods and services. In addition, we and our third-party service providers may experience service outages from time to time that negatively impact payments on our platforms. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, such payments-related service outages and, if we are unable to promptly remedy or provide an alternative payment solution, our business could be harmed. In addition, if our third-party providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses, or those of our sellers, could increase, and it could negatively impact our sellers businesses and/or our business. Further, our ability to expand our payments services into additional countries is dependent upon the third-party providers we use to support these services. As we continue to expand the availability of our payments services to additional markets or offer new payment methods to our sellers and buyers in the future, we, along with our sellers may become subject to additional and evolving regulations, compliance requirements, and may be exposed to heightened operational and fraud risk, which could lead to an increase in our operating expenses. Our payments systems are subject to a complex landscape of evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards. Various laws and regulations govern payments, and these laws are complex, evolving, and subject to change and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. Moreover, even in regions where such laws have been harmonized, regulatory interpretations of such laws may differ. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort determining whether various licensing and registration laws relating to payments apply to us as our business strategy and operations evolve. In addition, our payments activities and/or applicable laws and regulations have evolved and may continue to evolve. For example, to meet emerging regulatory requirements, among other reasons, our subsidiary, Etsy Payments Ireland Limited, received authorization from the Central Bank of Ireland to operate as a regulated payments institution to handle payments for sellers located in the European Economic Area. We also have applied, and may in the future apply, for registration/licensure as a payments service provider in additional jurisdictions. Each authorization as a regulated entity subjects us to additional regulation and oversight. If any of our subsidiaries become licensed as a financial services provider in any additional jurisdictions, we would be subject to additional regulation and oversight of that subsidiary. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, result in liabilities, cause us significant reputational damage, or force us to stop offering our payments services in certain markets. Additionally, changes in payment regulation may occur that could render our payments systems non-compliant and/or less profitable. Further, through our agreements with our third-party payments service providers, we are subject to evolving rules and certification requirements (including, for example, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), and other contractual requirements or expectations that may materially negatively impact our payments business. Failure to comply with these rules or requirements could impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations with our third-party payment processors and could result in potential fines or negatively impact our relationship with our third-party payments processors. We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements, including as a result of a change in our designation by major payment card providers, could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply and could require a change in our business operations. In addition, similar to a potential increase in costs from third-party providers described above, any increased costs associated with compliance with payment card association rules or payment card provider rules could lead to increased fees for us or our sellers, which may negatively impact payments on our platforms, usage of our payments services, and our marketplaces. The global scope of our business subjects us to risks associated with operations abroad. Doing business outside of the United States subjects us to increased risks and burdens such as: complying with different (and sometimes conflicting) laws and regulatory standards (particularly including those related to the use and disclosure of personal information, online payments and money transmission, intellectual property, product safety and liability, consumer protection, online platform liability, minors online safety, e-commerce marketplace regulation, artificial intelligence, labor and employment laws, business practices, including those related to corporate social responsibility and sustainability, and taxation of income, goods, and services), including attempts to apply these laws and regulatory standards extra-territorially; defending our marketplaces against international litigation and regulatory matters, including in jurisdictions that may not offer judicial norms or protections similar to those found in the United States; conforming to local business or cultural norms; 48 Table of Contents barriers to international trade, such as tariffs, customs, or other taxes, or, when applicable, cross-border limits placed on U.S. technology companies; uncertainties around the continuing impact on operations of supply chain disruptions and geopolitical events such as natural disasters, pandemics, terrorism, and acts of war; varying levels of internet, e-commerce, and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; potentially heightened risk of fraudulent or other illegal transactions; limitations on the repatriation of funds; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption, anti-money laundering and export control laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (the FCPA), the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010, trade controls and sanctions administered by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; limitations on our ability to enforce contracts, our terms of use and policies, and intellectual property rights in jurisdictions outside the United States; fluctuations of currency exchange rates, including the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies; and uncertainties and instability in U.K. and E.U. markets caused by the patchwork of cross-border service agreements triggered by Brexit. Our sellers face similar risks in conducting their businesses across borders. Even if we are successful in managing the risks of conducting our business across borders, if our sellers are not, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to recruit and retain a talented and broadly diverse group of employees and retain key employees is important to our success. Significant attrition or turnover could impact our ability to grow our business. Our ability to attract, retain, and engage a talented and broadly diverse group of employees, including our management team, is important to our success. We strive to attract, retain, and engage employees who share our dedication to our buyer and seller communities and our mission to Keep Commerce Human. We cannot guarantee we will be able to continue to attract and retain the number or caliber of employees we need to maintain our competitive position, particularly given the uncertainty of the current macroeconomic environment. Some of the challenges we face in attracting and retaining employees include: skepticism regarding our ability to reignite GMS growth in the future; continuing ability to offer competitive compensation and benefits, including stock-based compensation, for our employees, as more external scrutiny is placed on stock-based compensation expenses; competition for talent in our industry and our talent markets, which could cause payroll costs, including stock-based compensation, to become a larger percentage of our total cost base; evolving expectations in our talent markets and our own policies regarding remote, hybrid or other flexible work modes; continuing to find promotion and internal mobility opportunities to retain key employees for leadership positions; mitigating concerns around any potential cost-savings actions in light of past restructurings; and responding to competitive pressures and changing business conditions in ways that do not divert us from our guiding principles. Filling key strategic roles, including engineering and product management, can be challenging at times, particularly for more specialized positions. Qualified individuals may be limited and in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract, develop, retain and engage them. Even if we were to offer higher compensation and other benefits, people with suitable technical skills may choose not to join us or to continue to work for us. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the stock awards they receive in connection with their employment. The value of our stock awards in a volatile macroeconomic environment may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly-skilled employees. We operate in a flexible work model in which a significant percentage of our workforce works remotely while others work from our offices on a hybrid schedule. It is possible that these arrangements could have a negative impact on our employee engagement and on the execution of our business plans and operations. We have structured our work modes to reinforce our workplace culture, and optimize the natural creativity and innovation that arises from live cross-functional and team gatherings in our offices. If our work modes are not aligned with our employees preferences, or if we are unsuccessful in optimizing our hybrid 49 Table of Contents work environment, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain employees. If we continue to operate with a significant portion of our employees located outside of our offices, and we are unable to adapt to new hybrid work modes, it could negatively impact our company culture. In general, our employees, including our management team, work for us on an at-will basis. The unexpected loss of or failure to retain one or more of our key employees, or unsuccessful succession planning, could adversely affect our business. Further, if members of our management and other key personnel in critical functions across our organization are unable to perform their duties, we may not be able to execute on our business strategy and/or our operations may be negatively impacted. Other companies, including our competitors, may be successful in recruiting and hiring our employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis or on competitive terms. If we experience increased voluntary attrition in the future, and/or if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees in a timely fashion or on reasonable terms, particularly in critical areas of operations such as engineering, we may not achieve our strategic goals and our business and operations could be harmed. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property. Our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business. To establish and protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, and patent laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions. We also rely on trade secret protection for parts of our technology and intellectual property. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective. We generally do not elect to register our copyrights, relying instead on the laws protecting unregistered intellectual property, which may not be sufficient. We rely on both registered and unregistered trademarks, which may not always be comprehensive in scope. In addition, our copyrights, trademarks, and patents may be held invalid or unenforceable if challenged, and may be of limited territorial reach. While we have obtained or applied for patent protection with respect to some of our intellectual property, patent filings may not be adequate alone to protect our intellectual property, and may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Additionally, it is expensive to maintain these rights, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, and the time and cost required to defend such rights, if necessary. From time to time, we acquire intellectual property from third parties, but these acquired assets, like our internally developed intellectual property, may lapse, be abandoned, be challenged or circumvented by others, be held invalid, be unenforceable, or may otherwise not be effective in protecting our platforms. In addition, we may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property and authorized uses may not have the intended effect. Even when we do detect violations, enforcing our rights may require us to engage in litigation, use of takedowns and similar procedures, or licensing. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our managements attention. In addition, our efforts may be met with defenses and counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are unable to adequately prevent unauthorized use or misappropriation of our intellectual property by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and customers may lose trust in Etsy. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property and confidential information in part through confidentiality, non-disclosure, and invention assignment agreements with employees, advisors, service providers and other third parties who develop intellectual property on our behalf, or with whom we share information. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has developed intellectual property on our behalf or that has or may have had access to our confidential information, trade secrets and other intellectual property. These agreements may also be breached, or may not effectively prevent unauthorized use, disclosure, or misappropriation of our confidential information or intellectual property. Moreover, these agreements may not provide an adequate remedy for breaches or in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information or infringement of our intellectual property. The legal framework surrounding protection of intellectual property changes frequently throughout the world, particularly as to technologies used in e-commerce, and these changes may impact our ability to protect our intellectual property and defend against third-party claims. If we are unable to cost-effectively protect our intellectual property rights, our business could be harmed. We may experience fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate. We are subject to a variety of tax and tax collection obligations in the United States and in numerous other foreign jurisdictions. We record tax expense, including indirect taxes, based on current tax payments and our estimates of future tax payments, which may include reserves for estimates of probable or likely settlements of tax audits. We may recognize additional tax expense and be subject to additional tax liabilities, including tax collection obligations, due to changes in tax law, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted laws or administrative practices that impose new tax measures, including revenue-based taxes, such as digital services taxes or online sales taxes, targeting online commerce and the remote selling of goods and services. These include new obligations to withhold or collect sales, consumption, value added, or other taxes on online marketplaces and remote sellers, or other requirements that may result in liability for third-party obligations. For example, several jurisdictions have proposed or enacted taxes on online advertising and marketplace service revenues. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader international tax reform is implemented. Our effective tax rate, results of operations and cash flows have at times been, 50 Table of Contents and could in the future be, materially and adversely affected by additional taxes imposed on us prospectively or retroactively.We may also be subject to increased requirements for marketplaces to report, collect, remit, and hold liability for their customers direct and indirect tax obligations, as a result of changes to regulations, administrative practices, outcomes of court cases, and changes to the global tax framework. Our effective tax rate and cash taxes paid in a given financial statement period may be adversely impacted by results of our business operations including changes in the mix of revenue among different jurisdictions, acquisitions, investments, entry into new geographies, the relative amount of foreign earnings, changes in foreign currency exchanges rates, changes in our stock price, intercompany transactions, changes to accounting rules, expectation of future profits, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and our assessment of their realizability, and changes to our ownership or capital structure. Fluctuations in our tax obligations and effective tax rate could adversely affect our business. In the ordinary course of our business, there are numerous transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Although we believe that our tax positions and related provisions reflected in the financial statements are fully supportable, we recognize that these tax positions and related provisions may be challenged by various tax authorities. These tax positions and related provisions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are adjusted as additional facts and information become available, including progress on tax audits, changes in interpretation of tax laws, developments in case law, and closing of statute of limitations. To the extent that the ultimate results differ from our original or adjusted estimates, our effective tax rate can be adversely affected. The (provision) benefit for income taxes involves a significant amount of management judgment regarding interpretation of relevant facts and laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Future changes in applicable laws, including any implementation of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) two pillar project, projected levels of taxable income, and tax planning could change the effective tax rate and tax balances recorded by us. In addition, tax authorities periodically review income tax returns filed by us and raise issues regarding filing positions, timing and amount of income and deductions, and the allocation of income among the jurisdictions in which we operate. A significant period of time may elapse between the filing of an income tax return and the ultimate resolution of an issue raised by a revenue authority with respect to that return. Any adjustments as a result of any examination may result in additional taxes or penalties against us. If the ultimate result of these audits differs from original or adjusted estimates, they could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. At any one time, we typically have multiple tax years subject to audit by various taxing jurisdictions. As a result, we could be subject to higher than anticipated tax liabilities as well as ongoing variability in our quarterly tax rates as audits close and exposures are re-evaluated. The terms of our debt instruments may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. We do not currently have any outstanding borrowings under our credit facility. While the indentures governing our outstanding convertible notes do not include material restrictions on our ability to pursue our business strategy, our credit facility requires us to comply with, and future debt instruments may require us to comply with, various covenants that limit our ability to take actions such as: disposing of assets; completing mergers or acquisitions; incurring additional indebtedness; encumbering our properties or assets; paying dividends, making other distributions or repurchasing our common stock; making specified investments; and engaging in transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to pursue our business strategies. If we default under our credit facility and if the default is not cured or waived, the lenders could terminate their commitments to lend to us and cause any amounts outstanding to be payable immediately. Such a default could also result in cross defaults under other debt instruments. Moreover, any such default would limit our ability to obtain additional financing, which may have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. Our insurance may not cover or mitigate all the risks facing our business. While we have insurance coverage for many aspects of our business risk, this insurance coverage may be incomplete or inadequate, or in some cases may not be available. Our business has evolving risks that may be unpredictable. We cannot be sure that our existing insurance coverage, including coverage for cyber events and errors and omissions, will continue to be available on acceptable terms or that our insurers will not deny coverage as to all or part of any future claim or loss. For certain risks we face, we may be required to, or may elect to, self-insure or rely on insurance held by third parties, legal defenses and immunities, indemnification agreements, or limits on liability, which may be insufficient. For example, we may not have adequate insurance coverage related to the actions of sellers on our platforms or for security incidents or data breaches. In evolving areas such as platform products liability, court decisions suggest that different jurisdictions may take differing positions on the scope of e-commerce platform liability for seller products. In some circumstances, a platform might be held liable for violations of applicable legal regimes by sellers and their products, such as intellectual property laws, privacy and security laws, product regulation, or consumer protection laws. Court decisions and regulatory changes in these areas may shift quickly, both in the United States and worldwide, and our insurance may be inadequate or unavailable to protect us from existing or newly developing legal risks. Finally, while some sellers on our platforms may be insured for some or all of these risks, many small businesses do not carry any or sufficient insurance, and, even if a seller is insured, the insurance may not cover the relevant loss. 51 Table of Contents These factors may lead to increased costs for insurance, our increased liability, increased liability or requirements on sellers on our platforms, changes to our marketplaces or business model, or other damage to our brands and reputation. Strategic Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We face intense competition and may not be able to compete effectively. Operating e-commerce marketplaces is highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. We face competition from a wide range of online and offline competitors on both sides of our two-sided marketplace, which connects buyers and sellers to facilitate transactions. We compete for sellers with many companies and venues, including marketplaces, retailers, and social media commerce. For example, in addition to listing goods for sale on the Etsy or other House of Brands marketplaces, a seller can list goods with online retailers or sell goods through local consignment and vintage stores, as well as other venues or marketplaces, or through commerce channels on social networks. They may also sell wholesale directly to traditional retailers, including large national retailers, who discover their goods in our marketplaces or otherwise. We also compete with companies that sell software and services to small businesses, enabling a seller to sell from her own website or otherwise run her business independently of our platforms, or enabling her to sell through multiple channels. Additionally, Reverb offers integrations with some of these companies to help sellers integrate their inventory across channels and otherwise power their businesses. Changes in the terms and conditions of those companies could make it more difficult or expensive for sellers to sell on Reverb. We compete to attract, engage, and retain sellers based on many factors, including: the value, awareness, and perception of our brands; our investments in product and marketing for the benefit of our sellers; the effectiveness of our member support and trust and safety practices and policies; the global scale of our marketplaces and the breadth of our online presence; our tools, education, and services; the number and engagement of buyers; our policies and fees; the ability of a seller to scale her business; the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the strength of our communities; and our mission. We also face competition on the buyer side from both online and offline competitors. We compete for the attention of buyers who have the choice of shopping with any online or offline venue, including large e-commerce marketplaces, national retail chains, local consignment and vintage stores, social commerce channels, event-driven platforms and vertical experiences, resale marketplaces, streaming video commerce apps, and other venues or marketplaces. Many of these companies offer low-cost or free shipping, fast shipping times, favorable return policies, and other features that may be difficult or impossible for our sellers to match. We compete to attract, engage, and retain buyers based on many factors, including: the breadth and quality of items that sellers list in our marketplaces; the ease of finding items; the value and awareness of our brands; the effectiveness of our marketing; the person-to-person commerce experience; customer service; our reputation for trustworthiness; 52 Table of Contents the effectiveness of our mobile apps; the availability of timely, fair, and free shipping offered by sellers to buyers; ease of payment; localization and experiences targeted based on regional preferences, and the availability and reliability of our platforms. We also compete for media placements, including with retailers competing for the attention of our buyers, and increased competition can impact the cost we pay for media placements, including in dynamic auctions. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, better name recognition, or more customers than we do. They may invest more to develop and promote their services than we do, and they may offer lower fees to sellers than we do. Large, widely adopted platforms may benefit from significant user bases, access to user or industry-wide data, the ability to unilaterally set policies and standards, and control over complementary services such as fulfillment, advertising or on-platform apps or e-commerce transactions. To the extent Etsy and our sellers may rely on these competitors services, such services may be integrated into site functionality, and these competitors may have access to substantial data about Etsy and its communities of buyers and sellers. As a result, they may be able to reduce our ability to service our users and/or to obtain analytics or information to optimize advertising or intentionally seek to disintermediate Etsy. Local companies or more established companies based in markets where we operate outside of the United States may also have a better understanding of local customs, providing them a competitive advantage. For example, in certain markets outside the United States, we compete with smaller, but similar, local online marketplaces with a focus on unique goods that are attempting to attract sellers and buyers in those markets. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to expend significant resources in response to our competitors actions, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Maintaining and promoting awareness of our marketplaces and services is important to our ability to attract and retain sellers and buyers. One of the key parts of our strategy for the Etsy marketplace is to bring new buyers to the marketplace, reactivate lapsed buyers, and create more habitual buyers by inspiring more frequent purchases across multiple categories and purchase occasions. We continue to iterate on and invest in our marketing strategies for each of our marketplaces, which may not succeed for a variety of reasons, including our inability to execute and implement our plans. Our digital marketing efforts currently include, among others, search engine optimization, search engine marketing, affiliate marketing, and display advertising, as well as social media, mobile push notifications, and email marketing. If we fail to scale and deliver an effective return on investment in any of our marketing efforts, it may harm our business. We also engage with celebrities and influencers as part of our marketing efforts, and our perceived affiliation with these individuals could cause us brand or reputational damage in the event they are perceived to be or take actions inconsistent with our brands and values. Additionally, we invest significantly in brand advertising via channels such as television and digital video advertising. If we do not produce effective content or purchase effective air time and placement for that content, it could fail to deliver a return on our investment, and damage our brands and/or business. Many of our marketing efforts include our sellers and products from their shops selected via automated systems. These automated systems may not always operate effectively. While both our manual and automated systems have tools and procedures designed to account for our and our partners policies, despite our best efforts, we may inadvertently include in our marketing efforts sellers or their products inconsistent with our policies, brands, and values, which could result in failure to deliver a return on our investment, media or regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our brands and/or business. We obtain a significant number of visits via search engines such as Google. Search engines frequently change the algorithms that determine the ranking and display of results of a users search, alter analytics or search engine optimization data available to us, or make other changes to the way results are displayed. These changes have and may continue to negatively affect the placement of links to our marketplaces and reduce the number of visits we receive from search engines. We continue to adjust our marketing strategies to account for these changes, but there can be no guarantee these adjustments will be effective. We also obtain a significant number of visits from social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, and Pinterest. Search engines, social networks, and other third parties typically require compliance with their policies and procedures, which may be subject to change or new interpretation with limited ability to negotiate, which from time to time negatively impacts our marketing capabilities (including marketing services for our sellers), GMS, and revenue. Etsy-provided controls for users to limit third-party advertising features, the growing use of online ad-blocking software and technological changes to browsers and mobile operating systems that, for example, limit access to usage information for advertisers like Etsy, impact the effectiveness of, or our visibility and insights into, our marketing efforts. As a result, we may fail to bring more buyers, or fail to increase frequency of visits, to our platforms. In addition, ongoing legal and regulatory changes in the data privacy, social media and technology spheres in U.S. states and countries throughout the world and the interpretation of these laws by major search, 53 Table of Contents social, and operating system providers have and may continue to impact the scope and effectiveness of marketing and advertising services generally, including those used on our platforms. We also obtain a significant number of visits through email marketing. If we are unable to successfully deliver emails to our sellers and buyers, if our email subscription tools do not function correctly, or if our sellers and buyers do not open our emails, whether by choice, because those emails are marked as low priority or spam, or for other reasons, our business could be adversely affected. As e-commerce, search, and social networking, as well as related regulatory regimes, evolve, we must continue to evolve our marketing tactics and technology accordingly and, if we are unable to do so, our business could be adversely affected. Many providers of consumer devices, mobile or desktop operating systems, and web browsers have blocked, or have announced options to block, third-party cookies and similar online tracking technologies, which has and may continue to reduce the effectiveness of traditional online tracking methods. Similarly, our vendors, particularly those providing advertising and analytics products and services have modified and may continue to modify their products and services based on legal and technical changes relating to privacy in ways that could reduce the efficiency of our marketing efforts and our access to data about use of our platforms. Any reduction in our ability to make effective use of such technologies could harm our ability to personalize the experience of buyers, increase our costs, and limit our ability to attract and retain our sellers and buyers on cost-effective terms. As a result, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Enforcement of our marketplace policies may negatively impact our brands, reputation, and/or our financial performance. We maintain and enforce policies that outline expectations for users while they engage with our services, whether as a seller, a buyer, or a third party. Additionally, we prohibit a range of items on our marketplaces, including (but not limited to): drugs, alcohol, tobacco, weapons, endangered animal products, hazardous materials, recalled items or those that create an unreasonable risk of harm, highly-regulated items, items violating intellectual property rights of others, illegal products, pornography, items from sanctioned jurisdictions, hateful content, and items that promote or glorify violence. We maintain and enforce these policies in order to uphold the safety and integrity of our marketplaces, comply with laws and regulations, engender trust in the use of our services, and encourage positive connections among members of our communities. We strive to enforce these policies in a consistent and principled manner that is transparent and explicable to stakeholders. However, even with a principled and objective approach, this work involves a combination of human judgment and technological and manual review. As a result, there could be errors or inconsistencies in, or disagreement with, our policy determinations; policy enforcement could be subject to different, inconsistent, or conflicting regional consensus or regulatory standards in different jurisdictions; and our policy decisions could be perceived to be arbitrary, unfair, unclear, or inconsistent. Similarly, the tools and processes in place at the other marketplaces that make up our House of Brands portfolio differ from those used by the Etsy marketplace, and our tools and processes may not be as sophisticated or mature as those of our competitors. Shortcomings and errors in our policy enforcement across our marketplaces could lead to negative public perception, distrust from our members, or lack of confidence in the use of our services, and could negatively impact the reputation of our brands. Enforcement of these policies has been in the past, and may continue to be, received negatively by stakeholders or the public or negatively affect our financial performance. For example, we have limited or prohibited the sale of items in our marketplaces based on our policies, and will continue to do so, even though we could benefit financially from the sale of those items. Additionally, from time to time, we revise our policies in ways that we believe will enhance trust in our platforms, but which may be negatively perceived by segments of our communities or other stakeholders. As a result, enforcement of our policies may negatively impact our brands, reputation, and/or financial performance. If we are unable to successfully execute on our business strategy or if our strategy proves to be ineffective, our business, financial performance, and growth could be adversely affected. Our ability to execute our strategy is dependent on a number of factors, including the ability of our senior management team and key team leaders to execute the strategy, our ability to iterate in a rapidly evolving e-commerce landscape, maintain our pace of product experiments coupled with the success of such initiatives, our ability to meet the changing needs of our sellers and buyers, and the ability of our employees to perform at a high level. If we are unable to execute our strategy, if our strategy does not drive the growth that we anticipate, if the public perception is that we are not executing on our strategy, or if our market opportunity is not as large as we have estimated, it could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and growth. For more information on our strategy, see Part I, Item 1, "BusinessOverviewOur Strategy." 54 Table of Contents If we are not able to keep pace with technological changes and enhance our current offerings and develop new offerings to respond to the changing needs of sellers and buyers, our business, financial performance, and growth may be harmed. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new service and product introductions, and changing customer demands and preferences, and we are not able to predict the effect of these changes on our business. The technologies that we currently use to support our platforms may become inadequate or obsolete, and the cost of incorporating new technologies into our products and services may be substantial. Our sellers and buyers, however, may not be satisfied with our enhancements or new offerings or may perceive that these offerings do not respond to their needs or create value for them. Additionally, as we invest in and experiment with new offerings or changes to our platforms, our sellers and buyers may find these changes to be disruptive and may perceive them negatively. In addition, developing new services and features is complex, and the timetable for public launch is difficult to predict and may vary from our historic experience. As a result, the introduction of new offerings may occur after anticipated release dates, or they may be introduced as pilot programs, which may not be continued for various reasons. In addition, new offerings may not be successful due to defects or errors, negative publicity, or our failure to market them effectively. New offerings may not drive GMS or revenue growth, may require substantial investment and planning, and may bring us more directly into competition with companies that are better established or have greater resources than we do. If we do not continue to cost-effectively develop new offerings that satisfy sellers and buyers, then our competitive position and growth prospects may be harmed. In addition, new offerings may not drive the GMS or revenue that we anticipate, may have lower margins than we anticipate or than existing offerings, and our revenue from the new offerings may not be enough to offset the cost of developing and maintaining them, which could adversely affect our business, financial performance, and prospects. Continuing to expand our operations outside of the United States is part of our strategy, and our business could be harmed if our expansion efforts do not succeed. Operating outside of the United States requires significant management attention, including managing operations and people over diverse geographic areas with varying cultural norms and customs, and adapting our platforms and business operations to local markets. Although we have a significant number of sellers and buyers outside of the United States, and Depop is headquartered in the United Kingdom, we are primarily a U.S.-based company with less experience developing local markets internationally, and we may not execute our strategy successfully. For example, we sold our interest in Elo7 in August 2023 in light of challenges we faced to effectively scale the business in Brazil and, in late 2023, we decided to focus on bringing our India-based sellers potential sales through cross-border, global transactions and to deprioritize developing a domestic marketplace in India. An inability to develop our communities globally or to otherwise grow our business outside of the United States in a cost-effective manner could adversely affect our GMS, revenue, and operating results. Our business may be adversely affected by any circumstances that reduce or hinder cross-border trade. For example, the shipping of goods cross-border is typically more expensive and slower than domestic shipping and often involves complex customs and duty inspections. If jurisdictions become increasingly fragmented, with additional regulation of small sellers and platforms, tariffs, changes to de minimis thresholds, certifications, representative requirements, and customs requirements that increase the cost or complexity of cross-border trade, whether on the sellers sourcing of materials or between the seller and buyer, our business could be adversely impacted. In addition, our international growth strategy may be adversely affected by geopolitical or other events that result in closures, delayed or terminated delivery services, or movement restrictions. Despite our execution efforts, the goods that sellers list on our Etsy and Reverb marketplaces may not appeal to non-U.S. consumers in the same way as they do to consumers in the United States. In addition, non-U.S. buyers are not as familiar with the Etsy and Reverb brands as buyers in the United States and may not perceive us as relevant or trustworthy. Similarly, consumers outside the United Kingdom and United States may be less familiar with Depop, which may make it challenging to expand into new markets. Competition is likely to intensify as we expand our business in markets outside of the United States. Local companies based outside the United States may have a substantial competitive advantage because of their greater understanding of, and focus on, their local markets, along with regulations that may favor local companies. Some of our competitors may also be able to develop and grow internationally more quickly than we will. To facilitate continued international expansion, we plan to continue investing in local marketing and enhancing the localization of the Etsy site experience to help sellers and buyers transact even if they are not in the same country and/or do not speak the same language. We may also form relationships with third-party service providers to support operations in multiple countries, and potentially acquire additional companies based outside the United States to integrate them into our operations, both of which could expose us to additional risks. Our investment outside of the United States may be more costly than we expect or unsuccessful. 55 Table of Contents We have incurred impairment charges for our goodwill and other long-lived tangible and intangible assets, and may incur further impairment charges in the future, which would negatively impact our operating results. In the quarter ended June 30, 2023, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $68.1 million to write-off property and equipment and intangible assets in full for Elo7. In addition, in the quarter ended September 30, 2022, we recorded non-cash impairment charges of $897.9 million and $147.1 million to write-off goodwill in full for Depop and Elo7, respectively. Impairments have resulted and may result from, among other things, deterioration in performance, adverse market conditions, adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, challenges applying our technological, marketing, and operational expertise to help scale the acquired brands marketplaces in a profitable, efficient, and effective manner, and a variety of other factors. We review goodwill and other long-term assets quarterly to assess if indicators of impairment arise, including the deterioration of macroeconomic conditions, a rise in the risk-free long-term interest rates, or a decline in our results of operations. The result of such review may indicate a decline in the fair value of goodwill and other long-term tangible and intangible assets requiring additional impairment charges. In the event we are required to record an additional non-cash impairment charge to our goodwill, other intangibles, and/or long-lived assets, such a non-cash charge could have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Statements of Operations and Balance Sheets in the reporting period in which we record the charge. We may engage in acquisitions, dispositions, or strategic partnerships which may divert managements attention and/or prove to be unsuccessful. We have acquired businesses in the past and may acquire additional businesses or technologies, or enter into strategic partnerships, in the future. We have not always been able to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions, and may not be able to realize the anticipated benefits of possible future acquisitions or partnerships, and such transactions may disrupt our business and divert managements time and attention. We have also disposed of businesses in the past and may in the future dispose of businesses or assets that no longer fit our long-term strategies. In addition, integrating an acquired business or technology, or separating an existing business or asset group, is risky and may require significant time and attention from our management team and workforce. Any acquisitions, dispositions, or partnerships may result in unforeseen operational difficulties and expenditures associated with: integrating new businesses and technologies into, or separating existing businesses from, our infrastructure; clearing any required regulatory review that may be complex, costly, time-consuming, or place additional requirements on the business; implementing growth initiatives; integrating or separating administrative functions; hiring, retaining, and integrating key employees; supporting and enhancing morale and culture; retaining key customers, merchants, vendors, and other key business partners; maintaining or developing controls, procedures, and policies (including effective internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure