Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this report to "EverCommerce Inc.," the Company, we, us and our refer to EverCommerce Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 (the Annual Report on Form 10-K). Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview EverCommerce is a leading provider of integrated, vertically-tailored software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions for service-based small- and medium-sized businesses (service SMBs). Our platform spans across the full lifecycle of interactions between consumers and service professionals with vertical-specific applications. Today, we serve over 600,000 customers across three core verticals: Home Services; Health Services; and Fitness & Wellness Services. Within our core verticals, our customers operate within numerous micro-verticals, ranging from home service professionals, such as home improvement contractors and home maintenance technicians, to physician practices and therapists within Health Services, to personal trainers and salon owners within Fitness & Wellness. Our platform provides vertically-tailored SaaS solutions that address service SMBs increasingly specialized demands, as well as highly complementary solutions that complete end-to-end offerings, allowing service SMBs and EverCommerce to succeed in the market, and provide end consumers more convenient service experiences. We offer several vertically-tailored suites of solutions, each of which follows a similar and repeatable go-to-market playbook: offer a system of action Business Management Software that streamlines daily business workflows, integrate highly complementary, value-add adjacent solutions and complete gaps in the value chain to create end-to-end solutions. These solutions focus on addressing how service SMBs market their services, streamline operations and retain and engage their customers. Business Management Software: Our vertically-tailored Business Management Software is the system of action at the center of a service business operation, and is typically the point-of-entry and first solution adopted by a customer. Our software, designed to meet the day-to-day workflow needs of businesses in specific vertical end markets, streamlines front and back-office processes and provides polished customer-facing experiences. Using these offerings, service SMBs can focus on growing their customers, improving their services and driving more efficient operations. Billing & Payment Solutions: Our Billing & Payment Solutions provide integrated payments, billing and invoicing automation and business intelligence and analytics. Our omni-channel payments capabilities include point-of-sale, eCommerce, online bill payments, recurring billing, electronic invoicing and mobile payments. Supported payment types include credit card, debit card and Automated Clearing House processing. Our payments platform also provides a full suite of service commerce features, including customer management as well as cash flow reporting and analytics. These value-add features help small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) to ensure more timely billing and payments collection and provide improved cash flow visibility. Customer Engagement Applications: Our Customer Engagement Applications modernize how businesses engage and interact with customers by leveraging innovative, bespoke customer listening and communication solutions to improve the customer experience and increase retention. Our software provides customer listening capabilities with real-time customer surveying and analysis to allow standalone businesses and multi-location brands to receive voice of the customer insights and manage the customer experience lifecycle. These applications include: customer health scoring, customer support systems, real-time alerts, NPS-based 23 customer feedback collection, review generation and automation, reputation management, customer satisfaction surveying and a digital communication suite, among others. These tools help our customers gain actionable insights, increase customer loyalty and repeat purchases and improve customer experiences. Marketing Technology Solutions: Our Marketing Technology Solutions work with our Customer Engagement Applications to help customers build their businesses by invigorating marketing operations and improving return on investment across the customer lifecycle. These solutions help businesses to manage campaigns, generate quality leads, increase conversion and repeat sales, improve customer loyalty and provide a polished brand experience. Our solutions include: custom website design, development and hosting, responsive web design, marketing campaign design and management, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search and display advertising, social media and blog automation, call tracking, review monitoring and marketplace lead generation, among others. We go to market with suites of solutions that are aligned to our three core verticals: (i) the EverPro suite of solutions in Home Services; (ii) the EverHealth suite of solutions within Health Services; and (iii) the EverWell suite of solutions in Fitness & Wellness Services. Within each suite, our Business Management Software the system of action at the center of a service business operation is typically the first solution adopted by a customer. This vertically-tailored point-of-entry provides us with an opportunity to cross-sell adjacent products, previously offered as fragmented and disjointed point solutions by other software providers. This land and expand strategy allows us to acquire customers with key foundational solutions and expand into offerings via product development and acquisitions that cover all workflows and power the full scope of our customers businesses. This results in a self-reinforcing flywheel effect, enabling us to drive value for our customers and, in turn, improve customer stickiness, increase our market share and fuel our growth. We generate three types of revenue: (i) Subscription and Transaction Fees, which are primarily recurring revenue streams, (ii) Marketing Technology Solutions, which includes both recurring and re-occurring revenue streams and (iii) Other revenue which consists primarily of one-time revenue streams. Our recurring revenue generally consists of monthly, quarterly and annual software and maintenance subscriptions, transaction revenue associated with integrated payments and billing solutions and monthly contracts for Marketing Technology Solutions. Additionally, our re-occurring revenue includes revenue related to the sale of marketing campaigns and lead generation under contractual arrangements with customers. Our business benefits from attractive unit economics. Approximately 95% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was recurring or re-occurring, and we maintained an annualized net revenue retention rate of more than 100% for the quarter ended March 31, 2022. We believe the retention and growth of revenue from our existing customers is a helpful measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. Our ability to cross sell additional products and services to our existing customers can increase customer engagement with our suite of solutions and thus have a positive impact on our net pro forma revenue retention rate. For example, we have leveraged our land and expand strategy to cross sell solutions to our existing customers, which has supported our high net pro forma revenue retention rate by increasing customer utilization of our solutions, educating customers as to how our platform and synergies can support their businesses and, in turn, improving customer stickiness. Our calculation of net pro forma revenue retention rate remains consistent with prior periods. This rate for any fiscal period includes the positive recurring and re-occurring revenue impacts of selling new solutions to existing customers and the negative impacts of contraction and attrition among this set of customers. Our net pro forma revenue retention rate may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the growing level of our revenue base, the level of penetration within our customer base, expansion of solutions, new acquisitions and our ability to retain our customers. Our calculation of net pro forma revenue retention rate may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies. 24 We acquire companies to deepen our competitive moats in existing verticals, and enter new verticals and geographies. We have acquired 52 companies since our inception. We have an established framework for identification, execution, integration, and onboarding of targets, which leverages our significant acquisition experience and utilizes internal criteria for evaluating acquisition candidates and prospective businesses. We have developed and refined our internal criteria over time with our acquisitions, which has helped us to more readily identify attractive and complementary targets that can be efficiently onboarded. These acquired solutions can bring deep industry expertise and vertically-tailored software solutions that provide additional sources of growth. We believe that our methodology, track record, and reputation for sourcing, evaluating, and integrating acquisitions positions us as an acquirer-of-choice for potential targets. Impact of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has caused economies, businesses, markets and communities around the globe to be disrupted, and in many cases, shut-down. In the interest of public health, many governments closed physical stores and business locations deemed to be non-essential, which caused increased unemployment levels and businesses to permanently close. Many SMBs have been adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and as a result, certain of our business operations were negatively impacted, while others have benefited from customers shifting to technology-focused, digital-first business models. A McKinsey survey from October 2020 revealed that global business executives have accelerated the digitization of their customer and supply-chain interactions by as much as three to four years. Although we cannot predict when the United States and global economy will fully recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we believe that our business is well positioned to be a partner-of-choice for new customers, to capitalize on the growing trend of digital transformation and to benefit from the revival of the SMB economy. Nevertheless, we do not have certainty that a full economic recovery will happen in the near future, and it is possible that the prolonging of the COVID-19 pandemic will adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, refer to Part II. Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to our BusinessThe outbreak of the novel strain of coronavirus disease has impacted, and a future pandemic, epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease in the United States could impact, our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as the business or operations of third parties with whom we conduct business. Impact on Financial Performance The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our financial performance in the second quarter of 2020, and to a lesser degree thru the remainder of 2020 and 2021, due to the adverse impact the pandemic had on certain service SMBs. However, given the diversification of our business, the financial impact was primarily limited to declines in revenue attributable to customers in the Fitness & Wellness and Health Services verticals as many customers in those verticals were forced to close their business or limit operations. Due to the pandemic, in the three months ended June 30, 2020, our revenue declined from the three months ended March 31, 2020, excluding the impact of acquisitions closed in the first and second quarters of 2020. Throughout the second half of 2020 and for the year ended 2021, our revenues, excluding the impact of acquisitions closed within the respective periods, have increased as our customers and many service SMBs resumed operations and the impact of the pandemic has lessened. Given that the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, the extent to which it may further impact our financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity continues to be uncertain and difficult to predict. Any further impact is likely to vary by specific verticals, solutions and geographies, with the diversity of our customer base potentially moderating the overall effect. Our priority remains the safety of our employees, customers and the communities in which we live and operate. We continue to remain in close and regular contact with our employees, customers, business partners and communities to help navigate these challenging times. 25 Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our performance and future success depend on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges. For discussion of these factors, please see Key Factors Affecting Our Performance in the Managements Discussion and Analysis section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Key Business and Financial Metrics In addition to our results and measures of performance determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following key business and non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating and comparing our financial and operational performance over multiple periods, identifying trends affecting our business, formulating business plans and making strategic decisions. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our consolidated operating performance over time. Management also uses this metric for planning and forecasting purposes. Our year-over-year Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate is calculated as though all acquisitions closed as of the end of the latest period were closed as of the first day of the prior year period presented. In calculating Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate, we add the revenue from acquisitions for the reporting periods prior to the date of acquisition (including estimated purchase accounting adjustments) to our results of operations, and then calculate our revenue growth rate between the two reported periods. As a result, Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate includes pro forma revenue from businesses acquired during the period, including revenue generated during periods when we did not yet own the acquired businesses. In including such pre-acquisition revenue, Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate allows us to measure the underlying revenue growth of our business as it stands as of the end of the respective period, which we believe provides insight into our then-current operations. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate does not represent organic revenue generated by our business as it stood at the beginning of the respective period. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rates are not necessarily indicative of either future results of operations or actual results that might have been achieved had the acquisitions been consummated on the first day of the prior year period presented. We believe that this metric is useful to investors in analyzing our financial and operational performance period over period and evaluating the growth of our business, normalizing for the impact of acquisitions. This metric is particularly useful to management due to the number of acquired entities. Our Pro Forma Revenue Growth rate was 20.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, reflective of the underlying growth in our business including new customers and providing more solutions to existing customers. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted Gross Profit Adjusted Gross Profit is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our operational performance, as it represents the results of revenues and direct costs, which are key components of our operations. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to investors and other interested parties in analyzing our financial performance because it reflects the gross profitability of our operations, and excludes the indirect costs associated with our sales and marketing, product development, general and administrative activities and depreciation and amortization, and the impact of our financing methods and income taxes. 26 We calculate Adjusted Gross Profit as gross profit (as defined below) adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization allocated to cost of revenues. Adjusted Gross Profit should be viewed as a measure of operating performance that is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, operating income or loss, net earnings or loss and other GAAP measures of income (loss) or profitability. The following table presents a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted Gross Profit on a consolidated basis. Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Gross profit (1) $ 87,278 (2) $ 64,645 (3) Depreciation and amortization 5,553 4,587 Adjusted gross profit $ 92,831 $ 69,232 (1) Gross profit is calculated as total revenues less cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), amortization of developed technology, amortization of capitalized software and depreciation expense (allocated to cost of revenues). (2) For the three months ended March 31, 2022, gross profit represents total revenues of $143.6 million less cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) of $50.7 million, amortization of developed technology of $4.2 million, amortization of capitalized software of $1.1 million and depreciation expense (allocated to cost of revenues) of $0.3 million. (3) For the three months ended March 31, 2021, gross profit represents total revenues of $104.9 million less cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) of $35.7 million, amortization of developed technology of $3.4 million, amortization of capitalized software of $0.8 million and depreciation expense (allocated to cost of revenues) of $0.4 million. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our financial performance and is also used for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful to investors and other interested parties in analyzing our financial performance because it provides a comparable overview of our operations across historical periods. In addition, we believe that providing Adjusted EBITDA, together with a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA, helps investors make comparisons between our company and other companies that may have different capital structures, different tax rates and/or different forms of employee compensation. Adjusted EBITDA is used by our management team as an additional measure of our performance for purposes of business decision-making, including managing expenditures, and evaluating potential acquisitions. Period-to-period comparisons of Adjusted EBITDA help our management identify additional trends in our financial results that may not be shown solely by period-to-period comparisons of net income or income from continuing operations. In addition, we may use Adjusted EBITDA in the incentive compensation programs applicable to some of our employees. Our Management recognizes that Adjusted EBITDA has inherent limitations because of the excluded items, and may not be directly comparable to similarly titled metrics used by other companies. 27 We calculate Adjusted EBITDA as net loss adjusted to exclude interest and other expense, net, income tax benefit, depreciation and amortization, other amortization, acquisition related costs, stock-based compensation, and other non-recurring costs. Other amortization includes amortization for capitalized contract acquisition costs. Acquisition related costs are specific deal-related costs such as legal fees, financial and tax due diligence, consulting and escrow fees. Other non-recurring costs are expenses such as system implementation costs and severance related to planned restructuring activities. Acquisition related costs and other non-recurring costs are excluded as they are not representative of our underlying operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should be viewed as a measure of operating performance that is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, operating income or loss, net earnings or loss and other GAAP measures of income (loss). The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis. Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net loss $ (13,309) $ (15,995) Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest and other expense, net 5,478 12,949 Income tax benefit (5,737) (3,527) Depreciation and amortization 27,391 23,697 Other amortization 942 600 Acquisition related costs 597 1,098 Stock-based compensation 6,135 903 Other non-recurring costs 1,465 1,585 Adjusted EBITDA $ 22,962 $ 21,310 Description of Certain Components of Financial Data Revenues We derive our revenue from three primary sources which are described in detail below: (i) Subscription and Transaction Fees, which are primarily recurring revenue streams, (ii) Marketing Technology Solutions, which includes both recurring and re-occurring revenue streams and (iii) Other revenue, which consists primarily of the sale of distinct professional services and hardware. Our revenue recognition policies are discussed in more detail under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates. Subscription and Transaction Fees : Revenue includes (i) recurring monthly, quarterly and annual SaaS subscriptions and software license and maintenance fees from the sale of our Business Management, Customer Engagement, and Billing and Payment solutions; (ii) payment processing fees based on the transaction volumes processed through our integrated payment solutions and processing fees based on transaction volumes for our revenue cycle management, chronic care management and health insurance clearinghouse solutions and (iii) membership subscriptions and our share of rebates from suppliers generated though group purchasing programs. Our revenue from payment processing fees is recorded net of credit card and ACH processing and interchange charges in the month the services are performed. Marketing Technology Solutions: Revenue includes (i) recurring revenues for managing digital advertising programs on behalf of our customers including website hosting, search engine management and optimization, social media 28 management and blog automation and (ii) re-occurring fees paid by service professionals for consumer leads generated by our various platforms. Other : Revenue includes (i) consulting, implementation, training and other professional services; (ii) website development; (iii) revenue from various business development partnerships; (iv) event income and (v) hardware sales related to our business management or payment software solutions. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) consists of expenses related to delivering our services and products and providing support to our customers and includes employee costs and related overhead, customer credit card processing fees, targeted mail costs, third party fulfillment costs and software hosting expenses. We expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will fluctuate from period to period based on a variety of factors, including the mix of revenue between subscription and transaction fees and marketing technology solutions, labor costs, third-party expenses and acquisitions. In particular, marketing technology solutions revenue generally has a higher cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue than our subscription and transaction fee revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, revenue from subscription and transaction fees increased 43.6%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, whereas marketing technology solutions revenue increased 17.8%. To the extent our marketing technology solutions revenue grows at a faster rate, whether by acquisition or otherwise, than our subscription and transaction fees revenue, it could negatively impact our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consist primarily of employee costs for our sales and marketing personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock based compensation and sales commissions. Sales and marketing expenses also include advertising costs, travel-related expenses and costs to market and promote our products, direct customer acquisition costs, costs related to conferences and events and partner/broker commissions. Software and subscription services dedicated for use by our sales and marketing organization, and outside services contracted for sales and marketing purposes are also included in sales and marketing expense. Sales commissions that are incremental to obtaining a customer contract are deferred and amortized ratably over the estimated period of our relationship with that customer. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase investments to support our growth. We also anticipate that sales and marketing expenses will increase as a percentage of revenue in the near and medium-term. Product Development Product development expense consists primarily of employee costs for our product development personnel, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses. Product development expenses also include third-party outsourced technology costs incurred in developing our platforms, and computer equipment, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our product development organization. We expect our product development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and remain generally consistent as a percentage of revenue for the foreseeable future as we continue to dedicate substantial resources to develop, improve and expand the functionality of our solutions. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of employee costs for our executive leadership, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and other administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting and other professional services fees, rent, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative employees and other general corporate expenses. We expect general and administrative expense to increase on an absolute 29 dollar basis for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase investments to support our growth and due to increased costs as a result of being a public company. As we are able to further scale our operations in the future, we would expect that general and administrative expenses would decrease as a percentage of revenue. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization primarily relate to intangible assets, property and equipment and capitalized software. Interest and Other Expense, net Interest and other expense, net, primarily consists of interest expense on long-term debt, net of interest income. It also includes amortization expense of financing costs and discounts, as well as realized and unrealized gains and losses. Income Tax Benefit We account for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes . ASC 740 requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognized for temporary differences between the tax basis and financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities, computed at the expected tax rates for the periods in which the assets or liabilities will be realized, as well as for the expected tax benefit of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable by the Company's corporate subsidiaries for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. 30 Results of Operations The following tables summarize key components of our results of operations for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparisons of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected in the future. We operate as a single reportable segment to reflect the way our chief operating decision maker (CODM) reviews and assesses the performance of our business. For additional information concerning our accounting policies, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Impact of Acquisitions The comparability of our operating results is impacted by our business combinations and acquisitions. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, we quantitatively disclose the impact of the growth in certain of our revenues where such discussions would be meaningful. Expense contributions from our recent acquisitions for each of the respective period comparisons generally were not separately identifiable due to the integration of these businesses into our existing operations, and as such the discussion is focused on major changes in components of costs. Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 108,001 $ 75,195 Marketing technology solutions 29,904 25,388 Other 5,671 4,323 Total revenues 143,576 104,906 Operating expenses: Cost of revenues (1) (exclusive of depreciation and amortization presented separately below) 50,745 35,674 Sales and marketing (1) 30,145 19,689 Product development (1) 17,637 10,325 General and administrative (1) 31,226 22,094 Depreciation and amortization 27,391 23,697 Total operating expenses 157,144 111,479 Operating loss (13,568) (6,573) Interest and other expense, net (5,478) (12,949) Net loss before income tax benefit (19,046) (19,522) Income tax benefit 5,737 3,527 Net loss $ (13,309) $ (15,995) 31 (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 82 $ 1 Sales and marketing 328 29 Product development 392 33 General and administrative 5,333 840 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 6,135 $ 903 Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 108,001 $ 75,195 $ 32,806 43.6 % Marketing technology solutions 29,904 25,388 4,516 17.8 % Other 5,671 4,323 1,348 31.2 % Total revenues $ 143,576 $ 104,906 $ 38,670 36.9 % Revenues increased $38.7 million or 36.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by increases in subscription and transaction fees of $32.8 million and marketing technology solutions of $4.5 million. The increase in subscription and transaction fees related to growth in our customer base, higher transaction volumes processed through our payments platform and revenue earned from acquisitions completed in 2021. The increase in marketing technology solutions related to growth in customers using our digital marketing applications and an increase in consumer leads generated by our platforms. Included in revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2022 is $17.0 million of revenue from acquisitions closed subsequent to March 31, 2021. Cost of Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization presented separately below) $ 50,745 $ 35,674 $ 15,071 42.2 % Percentage of revenues 35.3 % 34.0 % Cost of revenues increased by $15.1 million or 42.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase is predominantly related to the continued growth of the Company and is primarily comprised of an additional $4.1 million of media spend, $3.0 million of personnel and compensation expense, and $2.7 million of outsourced services and other miscellaneous expense, including but not 32 limited to, Application Programming Interface fees and hosting expense. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenues was 35.3% and 34.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Sales and Marketing Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 30,145 $ 19,689 $ 10,456 53.1 % Percentage of revenues 21.0 % 18.8 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $10.5 million or 53.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by an additional $6.0 million of personnel and compensation expense and $1.8 million of advertising spend, due to the continued investment in growth through personnel and various marketing channels. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing was 21.0% and 18.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Product Development Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Product development $ 17,637 $ 10,325 $ 7,312 70.8 % Percentage of revenues 12.3 % 9.8 % Product development expenses increased by $7.3 million or 70.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by additional product development-related personnel expenses of $6.1 million, as a result of investments in our technology teams to support our various solutions as well as centralized security operations, information technology and cloud engineering. As a percentage of revenue, product development expenses were 12.3% and 9.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 31,226 $ 22,094 $ 9,132 41.3 % Percentage of revenues 21.7 % 21.1 % General and administrative expenses increased by $9.1 million or 41.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by an additional $4.5 million of stock-based compensation expense and $2.0 million of personnel and compensation expense, due to the continued investment in infrastructure required to support our rapid growth, scalable operations and being a public company. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 21.7% and 21.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 33 Depreciation and Amortization Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 27,391 $ 23,697 $ 3,694 15.6 % Percentage of revenues 19.1 % 22.6 % Depreciation and amortization increased by $3.7 million or 15.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by an additional $3.2 million in intangible assets amortization as a result of intangible asset additions from our 2021 acquisitions. As a percentage of revenue, depreciation and amortization expenses were 19.1% and 22.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Interest and Other Expense, net Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Interest and other expense, net $ 5,478 $ 12,949 $ (7,471) (57.7) % Percentage of revenues 3.8 % 12.3 % Interest and other expense, net, decreased by $7.5 million or 57.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This decrease was primarily due to an overall lower outstanding debt balance in 2022 compared to 2021, as well as a lower effective interest rate. As a percentage of revenue, interest and other expense were 3.8% and 12.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Income Tax Benefit Three months ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 Amount % (dollars in thousands) Income tax benefit $ 5,737 $ 3,527 $ 2,210 62.7 % Percentage of revenues 4.0 % 3.4 % Income tax benefit increased by $2.2 million or 62.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding period in 2021. This increase was primarily driven by discrete items, including a California law change and an intercompany intellectual property sale. 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our primary sources of liquidity have been net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from equity issuances and proceeds from long-term debt. Our primary use of liquidity has been acquisitions of businesses. For a description of our recent acquisitions, see Note 3 in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Absent significant deterioration of market conditions, we expect that working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt servicing and lease obligations will be our principal needs for liquidity going forward. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed five acquisitions for total consideration of $367.1 million. As of March 31, 2022, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $105.0 million, $190.0 million of available borrowing capacity under our Revolver (as defined below) and $547.3 million outstanding under our Term Loans (as defined below). We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, availability under our Credit Facilities, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our working capital requirements and planned capital expenditures, and to service our debt obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and size of future acquisitions, and the timing of introductions of new products and services. We expect to consummate acquisitions of complementary businesses in the future that could require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In particular, the widespread COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital. If we are unable to raise additional funds when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors . Cash Flows The following table sets forth cash flow data for the periods indicated therein: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 12,854 $ (5,400) Net cash used in investing activities (4,392) (72,144) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (652) 67,936 Effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash (370) 196 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 7,440 $ (9,412) Cash Flow from Operating Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by operating activities consisted of net loss of $13.3 million, offset by net non-cash adjustments to net loss of $28.5 million and net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.4 million. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $27.4 million and stock-based compensation expense of $6.1 million, partially offset by deferred taxes of $6.0 million. Changes in working capital during the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily included cash outflows from prepaid expenses and other current assets of $5.7 million, accounts receivable, net of $2.3 million and accounts payable of $2.1 million, partially offset by cash inflows of $4.2 million from deferred revenue and accrued expenses and other of $3.5 million. 35 During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities consisted of net loss of $16.0 million, offset by net non-cash adjustments to net loss of $23.7 million, and net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $13.1 million. Non-cash adjustments primarily consisted of depreciation and amortization of $23.7 million. Changes in working capital during the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily included cash outflows from accrued expenses and other of $10.3 million and accounts receivable, net of $4.7 million, partially offset by cash inflows for deferred revenue of $5.1 million. Cash Flow from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $4.4 million. The cash flow used was driven primarily by costs to develop software of $3.5 million. The remainder was primarily for purchases of property and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in investing activities was $72.1 million. The cash flow used was driven primarily by acquisition of companies, net of cash acquired, of $69.1 million. The remainder was primarily for purchases of property and equipment and costs to develop software. Cash Flow from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $0.7 million. The cash flow used was driven by payments on long-term debt of $1.4 million, partially offset by the exercise of stock options of $0.7 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $67.9 million. The cash flow provided was driven primarily by proceeds from long-term debt of $69.2 million. The proceeds from these financings were primarily used to fund acquisitions. Credit Facilities Prior to our Initial Public Offering (the IPO), subsidiaries of the Company were party to a credit facility that provided for (i) a term loan in an aggregate principal amount of $415.0 million (the Legacy Term Loan), (ii) commitments for delayed draw term loans up to an aggregate principal amount of $385.0 million (the Legacy Delayed Draw Term Loans), (iii) commitments for revolving loans up to an aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million (the Legacy Revolver), and (iv) a sub-limit of the Revolver available for letters of credit up to an aggregate face amount of $10.0 million, or the letters of credit (the Legacy Term Loan, Legacy Delayed Draw Term Loans and Legacy Revolver are referred to herein as the Legacy Credit Facilities). In connection with our IPO, on July 6, 2021 we refinanced our Legacy Credit Facilities and EverCommerce Solutions Inc., as borrower, and EverCommerce Intermediate Inc. entered into a new credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) in an aggregate principal amount of $540.0 million, consisting of (i) an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the Initial Term Loans), (ii) a revolver with a capacity of $190.0 million (the Revolver), and (iii) a sub-limit of the Revolver available for letters of credit up to an aggregate face amount of $20.0 million. We used the net proceeds of the Initial Term Loans and a portion of the funds available under our Revolver, together with the net proceeds from the IPO, to repay all amounts outstanding under our Legacy Credit Facilities. In November 2021, the Company drew an additional $155.0 million on the Revolver to fund an acquisition. Subsequently, in November 2021, the Company drew an additional $200.0 million (the Additional Term Loans, and collectively with the Initial Term Loans, the Term Loans) as permitted by the Credit Agreement. The Company used the proceeds of the Additional Term Loans to repay all amounts outstanding on the Revolver and for general corporate purposes. The Initial Term Loans, Revolver and Additional Term Loans are collectively referred to herein as the Credit Facilities. 36 Simultaneously with the execution of the Credit Facilities, we and various of our subsidiaries entered into a collateral agreement and guarantee agreement. Pursuant to the guarantee agreement, EverCommerce Intermediate Inc. and various of our subsidiaries are guarantors of the obligations under the Credit Facilities. Pursuant to the collateral agreement, the Credit Facilities are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property and the equity interests of our various subsidiaries, including EverCommerce Solutions Inc. The Credit Facilities contain certain affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, issuance of preferred equity interests, liens, fundamental changes and asset sales, investments, negative pledges, repurchases of stock, dividends and other distributions, and transactions with affiliates. In addition, we are subject to a financial covenant with respect to the Revolver whereby, if the aggregate principal amount of revolving loans (excluding letters of credit) outstanding on the last day of any fiscal quarter exceeds 35% of the aggregate commitments available under the Revolver, then our first lien leverage ratio as of the last day of such fiscal quarter must be 7.50 to 1.00 or less. Borrowings under the Credit Facilities are available as ABR or Eurocurrency borrowings. ABR borrowings under the Credit Facilities accrue interest at an alternate base rate plus an applicable rate, and Eurocurrency borrowings accrue interest at an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable rate. The ABR rate represents the greater of the prime rate, Federal Reserve Bank of New York rate plus of 1%, and an adjusted LIBOR rate for a one month interest period plus 1%. The applicable rate for the Term Loans and the New Revolver loans is 3% for Eurocurrency borrowings and 2% for ABR Borrowings, in each case subject to change based on our first lien net leverage ratio. With respect to ABR borrowings, interest payments are due on a quarterly basis on the last business day of each March, June, September and December. With respect to Eurocurrency borrowings, interest payments are due on the last business day of the interest period applicable to the borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency borrowing with an interest period of more than three months duration, each day prior to the last day of such interest period that occurs at intervals of three months duration after the first day of such interest period. The Revolver has a variable commitment fee, which is based on our first lien leverage ratio. We expect the commitment fee to range from 0.25% to 0.375% per annum. We are obligated to pay a fixed fronting fee for letters of credit of 0.125% per annum. Amounts borrowed under the Revolver may be repaid and re-borrowed through maturity of the Revolver in July 2026. The Term Loans mature in July 2028. The Term Loans may be repaid or prepaid but may not be re-borrowed. As of March 31, 2022, there was $547.3 million outstanding under our Credit Facilities, all of which was related to the Term Loans as no amounts were outstanding under the Revolver. The effective interest rate on the Term Loans was approximately 4.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2022, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facilities. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022 from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Refer to Notes 9 and 15 in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and notes thereto for a discussion of our debt and operating lease obligations, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect certain reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the 37 reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our critical accounting policies are described in Part II Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of accounting pronouncements recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted and their potential impact to our financial statements. Election Under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 The Company currently qualifies as an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Accordingly, the Company is provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (i) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (ii) within the same time periods as private companies. The Company has elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.