Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the Selected Financial Data and our audited financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion and other parts of this report contain forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions. As a result of many factors, including those factors set forth in the Risk Factors section of this report, our actual results could differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Overview We are the leading provider of MRAM solutions. Our MRAM solutions offer the persistence of non-volatile memory, a type of memory that retains information even in the absence of power, with the speed and endurance of random access memory (RAM). This enables the protection of mission critical data particularly in the event of power interruption or failure. Our MRAM solutions allow our customers in the industrial, automotive and transportation, and enterprise storage markets to design high performance, power efficient and reliable systems without the need for bulky batteries or capacitors. We derive our revenue from the sale of MRAM-based products in discrete unit form, the sale of services, licenses of and royalties on our MRAM and magnetic sensor technology, the sale of backend foundry services and design services to third parties. We work directly with our distributors and customers to have our MRAM devices designed into and qualified for their products. Although we maintain direct sales, support, and development relationships with our customers, once our products are designed into a customers product, we sell a majority of our products to those customers through distributors. We generated 71% and 74% of our revenue from products sold through distributors for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We maintain a direct selling relationship, for strategic purposes, with several key customer accounts. Our sales team and representatives are organized into three primary regions: North America; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); and Asia-Pacific and Japan (APJ). We recognize revenue by geography based on the region in which our products are sold, and not to where the end products in which they are assembled are shipped. Our revenue by region for the periods indicated was as follows (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 North America $ 9,124 $ 6,340 EMEA 11,175 8,031 APJ 29,118 21,565 $ 49,417 $ 35,936 Our revenue increased across all regions for the year ended December 31, 2018, compared to the same period in 2017, primarily due to volume growth and new customer wins. We leverage both internal and outsourced capabilities to manufacture our MRAM products. We purchase industry-standard complementary metal-oxide semiconductor (CMOS) wafers from semiconductor foundries and complete the fabrication by inserting our magnetic-bit technology at our 200mm fabrication facility in Chandler, Arizona. We believe this allows us to streamline research and development, rapidly prototype new products, and bring new products to market quickly and cost effectively. This strategy significantly reduces the capital investment that would otherwise be required to operate manufacturing facilities of our own. We utilize leading semiconductor foundry GLOBALFOUNDRIES to support full turnkey high-volume production of our high density MRAM products on 300mm wafers at advanced process nodes. During the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we continued to invest in research and development to support the development and production of our Spin Transfer Torque MRAM (STT-MRAM) technology. We believe our continued investment will allow us to continue to develop and deploy products based on our STT-MRAM 34 Table of Contents technology. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, our research and development expenses were $23.6 million and $25.4 million, respectively. We expect that our research and development expenses will increase in the future as we continue to develop our MRAM technology internally and through our joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES. For the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, we recorded revenue of $49.4 million and $35.9, million, gross margin of 51.3% and 59.8%, and a net loss of $17.8 million and $21.1 million, respectively. Key Metrics We monitor a variety of key financial metrics to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our business strategies and assess operational efficiencies. These financial metrics include revenue, gross margin, operating expenses and operating income determined in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, we monitor and project cash flow to determine our sources and uses for working capital to fund our operations. We also monitor Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income or loss adjusted for interest expense, tax, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, and compensation expense related to the vesting of common stock held by GLOBALFOUNDRIES resulting from our joint development agreement. Our management and board of directors use Adjusted EBITDA to understand and evaluate our operating performance and trends, to prepare and approve our annual budget and to develop short-term and long-term operating and financing plans. Accordingly, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA provides useful information for investors in understanding and evaluating our operating results in the same manner as our management and our board of directors. Adjusted EBITDA was $(12.0) million and $(15.6) million in 2018 and 2017, respectively. The changes were primarily a result of increased personnel-related costs, excluding stock-based compensation, contract labor and expenses resulting from our joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES. Personnel-related costs and contract labor costs were $20.0 million in 2018 and $18.8 million in 2017. The increase in personnel-related and contract labor is consistent with our strategy to expand our operations and develop our MRAM technologies and products to support future growth. Expenses from our joint development agreement were $5.8 million in 2018 and $5.2 million in 2017. Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Adjusted EBITDA reconciliation: Net loss $ (17,754) $ (21,100) Depreciation and amortization 1,450 1,191 Stock-based compensation expense 2,668 2,048 Compensation expense related to vesting of GLOBALFOUNDRIES common stock 753 1,472 Interest expense 890 764 Adjusted EBITDA $ (11,993) $ (15,625) Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations Design wins . To continue to grow our revenue, we must continue to achieve design wins for our MRAM products. We consider a design win to occur when an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) or contract manufacturer notifies us that it has qualified one of our products as a component in a product or system for production. Because the life cycles for our customers products can last for many years, if these products have successful commercial introductions, we expect to continue to generate revenues over an extended period of time for each successful design win. Any delay in the development of our products, or failure of our customers to adopt our products, could inhibit revenue growth or cause declines, which would significantly harm our business. In the fourth quarter of 2017, we recorded revenue for our first sale of 40nm 256Mb STT-MRAM products and we ramped up production in 2018. Customer acceptance of our technology and customer product success . For our customers to use our products, they may have to redesign certain components of their existing designs. We have established relationships with several storage controller and Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA) companies, including Xilinx, Lattice and Rizwan as well as IP core companies, including Cadence, Synopsys, and Northwest Logic, to facilitate the integration of our MRAM solutions into our customers end products. Delays in our customers design cycles may have adverse effects on the demand, and therefore sales, of our products. 35 Table of Contents Customer concentration . A relatively small number of end customers have historically accounted for a significant percentage of our revenue. Revenue, including through distributors, from our four largest end customers, collectively, accounted for 29% and 28% of our total revenue in 2018 and 2017, respectively. One of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2018 and none of these customers individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue in 2017. It would be difficult to replace lost revenue resulting from the loss, reduction, cancellation or delay in purchase orders by any one of these end customers. Consolidation among our customers may further concentrate our customer base and expose us to increased risks relating to increased customer concentration. In addition, any significant pricing pressure exerted by a significant customer could adversely affect our operating results. Pricing, product cost and gross margins of our products . Our gross margin has been, and will continue to be, affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of changes in pricing, shipment volumes, new product introductions, changes in product mix, changes in our purchase price of fabricated wafers, assembly and test service expenses, manufacturing yields and inventory write downs, if any. In general, newly introduced products, and products with higher densities and performance, tend to be priced higher than older, more mature products. Average selling prices in the semiconductor industry typically decline as products mature. Consistent with this historical trend, we expect that the average selling prices of our products will decline as they mature. In the normal course of business, we seek to offset the effect of declining average selling prices on existing products by reducing manufacturing expenses and introducing newer, higher value-added products. If we are unable to maintain overall average selling prices or to offset any declines in average selling prices with savings on product costs, our gross margin will decline. Gross margin impact of licensing revenue . Our licensing revenue, which we collect as licensing fees and royalty payments, generates significantly higher gross margin than product revenue. Due to the high gross margin profile of this revenue stream, fluctuations in licensing revenue may have a greater impact on gross margin than a corresponding change in the demand for our products. Therefore, as licensing revenue fluctuates, we may see significant variations in gross margin. Technology, process, and product development investment . We invest heavily to develop our MRAM technology, including the core MRAM technology, the joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES, and the design of new and innovative products based on MRAM, to provide solutions to our current and future customers. We anticipate that we will continue to invest in our research and development to achieve our technology and product roadmaps. Our product development is targeted to specific segments of the market where we believe the densities and performance of our products can provide the most benefit. We believe our close coordination with our customers regarding their future product requirements enhances the efficiency of our research and development expenditures. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue from the sale of our MRAM-based products in discrete unit form, the licensing of our MRAM and magnetic sensor technology and related royalties, the sale of backend foundry services, and design services to third parties. We recognize sales of products in discrete unit form at a point in time, we recognize revenue related to licensing agreements when we have delivered rights to the technology, we recognize revenue related to royalty agreements in the period in which sales generated from products sold using our technology occurs, and we recognize sales of backend foundry services and design services to third parties over time. For some our products, we provide price protection and product return rights. As such, for sales through distributors of our discrete MRAM products, at the time of revenue recognition, which occurs when control of the products has been transferred to the distributor, we estimate product returns and the expected price concessions that will be provided to the distributor, which is included in the transaction price. We estimate the credits to the distributors based on the historical rate of credits provided to distributors relative to sales or, for some customers the credit is based on a previously negotiated fixed rate. Our licensing revenue is largely dependent on a small number of transactions during a given year. 36 Table of Contents Cost of Sales and Gross Margin Cost of sales primarily includes the cost of our products including costs to purchase wafers, costs paid for wafer fabrication, costs associated with the assembly and testing of our products, shipping costs and costs of our manufacturing personnel. Cost of sales also includes indirect costs, such as warranty, inventory valuation reserves and overhead costs. Gross profit is revenue less cost of sales. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. We expect that our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period, primarily as a result of changes in average selling price, revenue mix among our products, product yields and manufacturing costs. In addition, we may reserve against the value at which we carry our inventory based upon the products life cycle and conditions in the markets in which we sell. Declines in average selling prices may be paired with improvements in our cost of sales, which may offset some of the gross margin reduction that could result from lower selling prices. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, general and administrative and sales and marketing expenses. Personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, are among the most significant component of each of our operating expense categories. Research and Development Expenses Our research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses for the design and development of our products and technologies, development wafers required to validate and characterize our technology, and expenses associated with our joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES. Research and development expenses also include consulting services, circuit design costs, materials and laboratory supplies, fabrication and new packaging technology, and an allocation of related facilities and equipment costs. We recognize research and development expenses as they are incurred. We expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a result of less spending in the future in connection with our joint development agreement with GLOBAL FOUNDRIES. General and Administrative Expenses Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel expenses, allocated facilities costs, expenses for outside professional services, and expenses for personnel and consultants engaged in executive, finance, legal, information technology and administrative activities. We expect our general and administrative expenses to remain flat as we have reached a level of stabilization in staffing and costs of being a public company. Sales and Marketing Expenses Our sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of compensation for our sales, marketing, and business development personnel, including bonuses and commissions for our sales representatives. We expect our sales and marketing expenses, excluding variable commissions, to remain flat as we have reached a level of stabilization for staffing of sales personnel and representatives and marketing activities. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of cash and non-cash components. The non-cash component consists of interest expense recognized from the amortization of debt discounts derived from the issuance of a warrant, the end of term fee and debt issuance costs capitalized on our balance sheets as a reduction of the debt balance. Interest expense is due to our borrowings under our loan agreements. Other Income, Net Other income, net consists primarily of the interest income earned on our cash equivalents and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Our foreign currency exchange gains and losses relate to transactions and asset and liability balances denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. 37 Table of Contents Loss on Extinguishment of Debt In the second quarter of 2017, we repaid the outstanding balance of our revolving loan and term loan at which time we recognized the unamortized balance of the debt discount and a prepayment penalty for the term loan as a loss on extinguishment of debt. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 2018 2017 (In thousands) (As a percentage of revenue) Product sales $ 39,514 $ 30,838 80 % 86 % Licensing, royalty, and other revenue 9,903 5,098 20 14 Total revenue 49,417 35,936 100 100 Cost of sales 24,083 14,451 49 40 Gross profit 25,334 21,485 51 60 Operating expenses: Research and development 23,637 25,437 48 71 General and administrative 12,551 11,516 25 32 Sales and marketing 6,467 4,740 13 13 Total operating expenses 42,655 41,693 86 116 Loss from operations (17,321) (20,208) (35) (56) Interest expense (890) (764) (2) (2) Other income, net 457 118 1 Loss on extinguishment of debt (246) (1) Net loss $ (17,754) $ (21,100) (36) % (59) % Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Product sales $ 39,514 $ 30,838 $ 8,676 28.1 % Licensing, royalty, and other revenue 9,903 5,098 4,805 94.3 % Total revenue $ 49,417 $ 35,936 $ 13,481 37.5 % Total revenue increased by $13.5 million, or 37.5%, from $35.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $49.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. Product sales increased by $8.7 million or 28.1% from $30.8 million, to $39.5 million. The increase was primarily due to $10.8 million in increased sales volume and mix in our MRAM products partially offset by a $2.1 million decrease in sales of our legacy products as a result of a decrease in demand for our legacy products. Licensing, royalty, and other revenue is a highly variable revenue item characterized by a small number of transactions annually with revenue based on size and terms of each transaction. Licensing, royalty, and other revenue increased by $4.8 million in 2018, from $5.1 million to $9.9 million. The increase was due to a non-refundable license fee related to a cross-license agreement entered into with a customer in March 2018, an increase of $0.5 million in royalty revenue, and an increase of $0.3 million in sales of our backend foundry service. These increases were offset in part by a $0.7 million decrease in milestone payments earned for research and development activities performed on behalf of GLOBALFOUNDRIES. The increase in revenue is also due in part to our adoption of the new revenue accounting standard whereby revenue from sales to distributors is recognized upon delivery of the product to the distributor. In 2017, revenue from 38 Table of Contents sales in which distributors were granted concessions or price protection credits was deferred until the sale of the products to the end customer was completed. This change resulted in a $0.6 million increase in revenue in 2018. Cost of Sales and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Cost of sales $ 24,083 $ 14,451 $ 9,632 66.7 % Gross margin 51.3 % 59.8 % * * * Not meaningful. Cost of sales increased by $9.6 million, or 66.7%, from $14.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $24.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to increased sales volume and lower yields on our MRAM products, as well as one time scrapping events in which we scrapped $1.6 million of inventory items, partially offset by lower sales volume of backend foundry services and legacy products. Gross margin decreased from 59.8% during the year ended December 31, 2017, to 51.3% during the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was primarily due to inventory items that were scrapped during 2018, as well as lower yields on our MRAM products that were partially offset by a onetime licensing event in the first quarter of 2018. Operating Expenses Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 23,637 $ 25,437 $ (1,800) (7.1) % Research and development as a % of revenue 48 % 71 % Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses decreased by $1.8 million, or 7.1%, from $25.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $23.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The decrease was due to a $1.7 million decrease in spending on direct materials and supplies used in research and development activities due to the timing of purchases, a $1.3 million decrease in employee and contract labor costs due to a decrease in headcount, a $0.7 million decrease in the amount attributable to the vesting of shares of common stock issued to GLOBALFOUNDRIES due to revaluing shares, and a $0.5 million decrease in equipment maintenance due to less repairs on machinery. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.8 million increase in process engineering costs due to increasing production capacity, a $0.6 million increase in expenses incurred in our joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES due to the use of more technologically advanced materials, a $0.5 million increase in software expenses due to the purchase of software to improve simulations, a $0.2 million increase in rent expense due to increased rent expense for our new headquarters, which we moved into in December 2017, and a $0.2 million dollar increase in depreciation expense. Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 12,551 $ 11,516 $ 1,035 9.0 % General and administrative as a % of revenue 25 % 32 % General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased by $1.0 million, or 9.0%, from $11.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $12.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due a $1.4 million increase in employee and contract labor costs due to an increase in headcount, of which $0.5 million was due to increased stock-based compensation expense and the repricing of certain stock options in the year ended December 31, 2018, and an increase of $0.1 million in software expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.5 million in professional services due to costs incurred in 2017 related to recently becoming a public company. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 6,467 $ 4,740 $ 1,727 36.4 % Sales and marketing as a % of revenue 13 % 13 % Sales and Marketing Expenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased by $1.7 million, or 36.4%, from $4.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $6.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to a $1.7 million increase in employee and contract labor costs as a result of higher headcount and an increase in salaries, bonuses and stock-based compensation expense Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Interest expense $ 890 $ 764 $ 126 16.5 % Interest expense increased by $0.1 million, or 16.5%, from $0.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $0.9 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily due to higher interest expense on our 2017 Credit Facility and Amended Credit Facility with Silicon Valley Bank, compared to our prior facility with Ares Venture Finance, due to an increase in the principal outstanding and an increase in the prime rate during the period. Other Income, Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Other income, net $ 457 $ 118 $ 339 287.3 % Other income, net increased by $0.3 million, or 287.3%, from $0.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, to $0.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The increase was primarily related to an increase in interest income earned on our cash balances as a result of the increase in our cash balances from the follow-on public offering in February 2018. Loss on extinguishment of debt Year Ended December 31, Change 2018 2017 Amount % (Dollars in thousands) Loss on debt extinguishment $ $ 246 $ (246) * * Not meaningful. Loss on extinguishment of debt was $0.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2017, due to the payoff of our prior facility with Ares Venture Finance in May 2017. There was no such loss during the year ended December 31, 2018. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have generated significant losses since our inception and had an accumulated deficit of $134.0 million as of December 31, 2018. We have financed our operations primarily through the sale of our common stock in our initial public offering (IPO), sales of our redeemable convertible preferred stock, debt financing and the sale of our products. As of December 31, 2018, we had $23.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, compared to $13.0 million as of December 31, 2017. 40 Table of Contents In November 2017, we filed a Registration Statement (File No. 333-221331) registering the offer and sale of up to $100.0 million of our securities, and in February 2018 we completed a follow-on underwritten public offering of our common stock under the Registration Statement, completing the sale of 3,722,447 shares at an offering price of $7.00 per share for proceeds of $24.5 million, net of $1.9 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and other offering costs. In May 2017, we executed a Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank for a $12.0 million term loan, which we amended in July 2018 to extend the interest only payment period until December 31, 2018. The term of the amended loan is two years following the interest only payment period, which would be extended by one year if we achieve certain milestones. The outstanding balance of the loan is to be repaid monthly beginning on January 1, 2019 over the remaining two-year term of the amended loan with an end of term fee of $0.8 million due upon maturity. The amended loan is secured by a first priority perfected security interest in our assets excluding any intellectual property, as described further below under Credit Facilities. As of December 31, 2018, and as of March 15, 2019, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, coupled with our anticipated growth and sales levels will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our spending to support research and development activities, the timing and cost of establishing additional sales and marketing capabilities, and the introduction of new products. If we need to raise additional capital to fund our operations, we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing, and such additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate sufficient cash from operations to adequately fund our operations, we will need to curtail planned activities to reduce costs and extend the time period over which our current resources will be able to fund operations. Doing so will likely harm our ability to execute on our business plan. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2018 2017 (In thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (14,673) $ (18,888) Cash used in investing activities (1,914) (3,070) Cash provided by financing activities 27,016 5,181 Cash Used in Operating Activities During the year ended December 31, 2018, cash used in operating activities was $14.7 million, which consisted of a net loss of $17.8 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $5.3 million and a change of $2.2 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges consisted of stock-based compensation of $2.7 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.5 million, compensation expense related to vesting of common stock issued to GLOBALFOUNDRIES under our joint development agreement of $0.8 million, and non-cash interest expense of $0.4 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $3.8 million in accounts receivable due to an increased sales volume and timing of cash receipts for outstanding balances and a decrease of $0.2 million in accounts payable due to the timing of payments. These were partially offset by an increase of $1.3 million in accrued liabilities primarily du e to an increase in inventory purchases in connection with the joint development agreement with GLOBALFOUNDRIES, an increase in accrued payroll, and the timing of payments and a decrease of $0.7 million in inventory due to increased sales. During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash used in operating activities was $18.9 million, which consisted of a net loss of $21.1 million, adjusted by non-cash charges of $5.2 million and a change of $3.0 million in our net operating assets and liabilities. The non-cash charges consisted of stock-based compensation of $2.0 million, compensation expense related to vesting of common stock issued to GLOBALFOUNDRIES under our joint development agreement of $1.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.2 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.3 million and loss on debt extinguishment of $0.2 million. The change in our net operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase in inventory of $3.9 million to meet demands of future sales and growing backlog, an increase of $0.4 million in accounts receivable due to the timing of cash receipts for outstanding balances and a $0.1 million decrease in deferred income on shipments to distributors. These were partially offset by an increase in prepaid 41 Table of Contents expenses and other current assets, accounts payable, and accrued liabilities, of $1.4 million due to the timing of payments. Cash Used in Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1.9 million and $3.1 million, respectively, which consisted of capital expenditures primarily for the purchase of manufacturing equipment and purchased software. Cash Provided by Financing Activities During the year ended December 31, 2018, cash provided by financing activities was $27.0 million consisting of net proceeds from the issuance of common stock in our February 2018 follow-on underwritten public offering of $24.5 million, proceeds of $1.0 million in borrowings, and $2.5 million from stock option exercises and purchases of shares in our employee stock purchase plan, offset in part by payments of long-term debt of $1.0 million. During the year ended December 31, 2017, cash provided by financing activities was $5.2 million consisting of $12.0 million from borrowings under our 2017 long-term debt facility, and $1.6 million in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and purchase of shares under the employee stock purchase plan, partially offset by $8.4 million in payments on our 2015 long-term debt facility and capital lease obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Credit Facilities Prior Facilities In June 2015, we entered into a loan and security agreement with Ares Venture Finance for a term loan of $8.0 million and a $4.0 million revolving loan for working capital purposes and to repay our existing debt to another lender. In April 2017, the loan was terminated and we repaid the outstanding balance of $1.1 million on the revolving loan. In May 2017, we repaid the outstanding principal balance of $6.2 million on the term loan. 2017 Credit Facility In May 2017, we entered into a Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank for a term loan of $12.0 million. The term loan bears for interest at a floating rate equal to the prime rate minus 0.75%. The term loan provided for a period of interest-only payments through April 30, 2018, followed by fixed principal and interest payments based on either a 24-month amortization schedule or a 36-month amortization schedule if we met certain sales milestones, and an additional payment of 6% of the Loan Amount when the loan was prepaid or repaid, whether at maturity or as a result of a prepayment or acceleration or otherwise. As of December 31, 2017, we determined we would not meet the sales milestones and as such the term loan was based on a 24-month amortization schedule. In July 2018, we entered into the First Amendment to the Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank to extend the interest only payment period until December 31, 2018. The term of the amended loan is two years following the interest only payment period, which would be extended by one year if we achieve certain milestones. The outstanding balance of the loan is to be repaid monthly beginning on January 1, 2019 over the remaining two-year term of the amended loan with an end of term fee of 7% of the Loan Amount due upon maturity. Borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility mature in December 2020. Security for the Amended Credit Facility includes all of our assets except for intellectual property. The Amended Credit Facility contains customary covenants restricting our activities, including limitations on our ability to sell assets, engage in mergers and acquisitions, enter into transactions involving related parties, incur indebtedness or grant liens or negative pledges on our assets, make loans or make other investments. Under these covenants, we are prohibited from paying cash dividends with respect to our capital stock. The Amended Credit Facility also contains a material adverse 42 Table of Contents effect clause which provides that an event of default will occur if, among other triggers, an event occurs that could reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect on our business, operations or condition, or on our ability to perform our obligations under the term loan. We were in compliance with all covenants at December 31, 2018. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgements and Estimates Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. We base our estimates on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition On January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) using the modified retrospective method applied to those contracts which were not completed as of January 1, 2018. We present results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2018 under Topic 606, while prior period amounts are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with Topic 605, Revenue. We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of the promised products or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We recognize revenue net of allowances for returns and price concessions, and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Topic 606 permits the application of certain practical expedients. Our billing practices approximate our performance as measured by an output method, where each output represents the completion of a performance obligation. Accordingly, we utilize the invoice practical expedient as defined in Topic 606, resulting in recognition of revenue in the amount that we have the right to invoice. We incur direct and incremental costs of obtaining contracts and expense such costs as incurred, as the life of the underlying contract is less than one year. Accordingly, we have concluded, based on the structure of our contracts, no adjustments are necessary under Topic 606. Nature of Products and Services We derive our revenue from the sale of MRAM-based products in discrete unit form, licenses of and royalties on our MRAM and magnetic sensor technology, the sale of backend foundry services, and design services to third parties. We recognize sales of products in discrete unit form at a point in time, revenue related to licensing agreements when we have delivered control of the technology, revenue related to royalty agreements in the period in which sales generated from products sold using our technology occurs, sales of backend foundry services over time, and design services to third parties either at a point in time or over time, depending on the nature of the services. Product Revenue For products sold in their discrete form, we either sell our products directly to OEMs, original design manufacturers (ODMs), contract manufacturers (CMs), or through a network of distributors, who in turn sell to those customers. For sales directly to OEMs, ODMs and CMs, we recognize revenue when the OEM, ODM or CM obtains control of the product, which occurs at a point in time, generally upon shipment to the customer. We sell a majority of our products to our distributors at a uniform list price. However, distributors may resell our products to end customers at a very broad range of individually negotiated price points. We provide distributors with price concessions subsequent to the delivery of product to them and such amounts are dependent on the end customer and product sales price. We base the price concessions on a variety of factors, including customer, product, quantity, geography and competitive differentiation. Price protection rights grant distributors the right to a credit in the event of 43 Table of Contents declines in the price of our products. Under these circumstances, we remit back to the distributor a portion of their original purchase price after the resale transaction is completed in the form of a credit against the distributors outstanding accounts receivable balance. The credits are on a per unit basis and are not given to the distributor until the distributor provides information regarding the sale to their end customer. We estimate these credits and record such estimates in the same period the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction of product revenue and the establishment of an allowance for price concessions for amounts due to distributors. We estimate credits to distributors based on the historical rate of credits provided to distributors relative to sales. Revenue on shipments to distributors is recorded when control of the products has been transferred to the distributor. We estimate the amount of our product sales that may be returned by our customers and record this estimate as a reduction of revenue in the period the related product revenue is recognized. We estimate our product return liability by analyzing our historical returns, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of products. We have received insignificant returns to date and believe that returns of our products will continue to be minimal. At the time of shipment to distributors, we record a trade receivable for the selling price as there is a legally enforceable obligation of the distributor to pay for the product delivered, an allowance is recorded for the estimated discount that will be provided to the distributor, and the net of these amounts is recorded as revenue on the statement of operations. License Revenue For licenses of technology, recognition of revenue is dependent upon whether we have delivered rights to the technology, and whether there are future performance obligations under the contract. In some instances, the license agreements call for future events or activities to occur in order for milestones amounts to become due from the customer. The terms of such agreements include payment to us of one or more of the following: non-refundable upfront fees; and royalties on net sales of licensed products. Historically, these license agreements have not included other future performance obligations once the license has been transferred to the customer. We allocate the transaction price in each agreement to the identified performance obligations based on the standalone selling price (SSP) of each distinct performance obligation. Judgment is required to determine SSP. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when a license or service is not sold separately, SSP is determined using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We recognize revenue from non-refundable up-front payments when the license is transferred to the customer and we have no other performance obligations. Royalties We recognize revenue from sales-based royalties from licenses of our technology at the later of when (1) the sale occurs or (2) the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales-based royalty has been allocated is satisfied (in whole or in part). Other Revenue For certain revenue streams, we recognize revenue based on the pattern of transfer of the services. We use the input method of measuring costs incurred to date compared to total estimated costs to be incurred under the contract as this method most faithfully depicts its performance. We record an unbilled receivable (within accounts receivable, net) for the portion of the work that has been completed but not invoiced at the end of each reporting period. Revenue from milestone payments must be estimated using either the expected value method or the most likely amount method. At the inception of each agreement that includes milestone payments, we evaluate whether the milestones are considered probable of being reached and estimate the amount to be included in the transaction price by using the most likely amount method. If it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue would not occur, the associated milestone value is included in the transaction price. At the end of each subsequent reporting period, we re-evaluate the probability or achievement of each such milestone and any related constraint, and if necessary, adjust our estimate of the overall transaction price. Any such adjustments are recorded on a cumulative catch-up basis, which would affect revenues and earnings in the period of adjustment. 44 Table of Contents Inventory We record inventories at the lower of cost, determined on a first-in, first-out basis or specific identification method, or market. We routinely evaluate quantities and values of inventory on hand and inventory that may be returned from distributors in light of current market conditions and market trends, and record provisions for inventories in excess of demand and subject to obsolescence. This evaluation may take into consideration expected demand, the effect new products may have on the sale of existing products, technological obsolescence and other factors. We record inventory write-downs for the valuation of inventory when required based on the analysis of the information immediately above and inventory balances are not readjusted until sold. Unanticipated changes in technology or customer demand could result in a decrease in demand for our products, which may require additional inventory write-downs that could materially affect our results of operations. Stock-based Compensation We recognize compensation costs related to stock options granted to employees and directors based on the estimated fair value of the awards on the date of grant. We have made an accounting policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur, rather than estimate expected forfeitures. We estimate the grant date fair value and the resulting stock-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We expense the grant date fair value of stock-based awards on a straight-line basis over the period during which the employee is required to provide service in exchange for the award (generally the vesting period). We estimate the fair value of our stock-based awards using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions. Our assumptions are as follows: Expected Term. The expected term represents the period we expect the stock-based awards to be outstanding. We use the simplified method to determine the expected term, which is calculated as the average of the time to vesting and the contractual life of the options. Expected Volatility. Since we do not have a long trading history for our common stock, we derive the expected volatility from the average historical volatilities of publicly traded companies within our industry that we consider to be comparable to our business over a period approximately equal to the expected term for employees options and the remaining contractual life for non-employees options. We will continue to apply this process until a sufficient amount of historical information regarding the volatility of our own stock price becomes available. Risk-free Interest Rate. We base the risk-free interest rate on the U.S. Treasury yield with a maturity equal to the expected term of the option in effect at the time of grant. Dividend Yield. We assume the expected dividend to be zero as we have never paid dividends and have no current plans to pay any dividends on our common stock. In addition to the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the expected volatility and expected terms utilized for our stock-based compensation calculations on a prospective basis. We recorded stock-based compensation expense of $2.7 million and $2.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Historically, for all periods prior to the IPO, the fair value of the shares of common stock underlying our stock-based awards was estimated on each grant date by our board of directors. In order to determine the fair value of our common stock underlying option grants, our board of directors considered, among other things, contemporaneous valuations of our common stock prepared by an unrelated third-party valuation firm in accordance with the guidance provided by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Guide, Valuation of Privately-Held-Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation . Given the absence of a public trading market for our common stock, our board of directors exercised reasonable judgment and considered a number of objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair value of our common stock, including: the rights, preferences and privileges of our preferred stock relative to those of our common stock; our operating results and financial condition; our levels of available capital resources; equity market conditions affecting comparable public companies; general U.S. market conditions; and the lack of marketability of our common stock. 45 Table of Contents After the completion of the IPO, our board of directors determined the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our common stock as reported on the date of grant. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, or the JOBS Act, and therefore we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various public company reporting requirements, including not being required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments. We may take advantage of these exemptions until we are no longer an emerging growth company. We will cease to be an emerging growth company upon the earliest of: (1) December 31, 2021, (2) the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenues are $1.07 billion or more, (3) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities, and (4) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act. Recently Adopted Pronouncements ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 201409, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Areas of revenue recognition that will be affected include, but are not limited to, transfer of control, variable consideration, allocation of transfer pricing, licenses, time value of money, contract costs and disclosures. The new standard permits adoption either by using (i) a full retrospective approach for all periods presented in the period of adoption or (ii) a modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new standard recognized at the date of initial application and providing certain additional disclosures. The new standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective method. We recognized the cumulative effect of initially applying the new revenue standard as an adjustment to the opening balance of its accumulated deficit. The comparative information has not been restated and continues to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. Topic 606 permits the application of certain practical expedients. Our billing practices approximate our performance as measured by an output method, where each output represents the completion of a performance obligation. Accordingly, we utilize the invoice practical expedient as defined in Topic 606, resulting in recognition of revenue in the amount that we have the right to invoice. We incur direct and incremental costs of obtaining contracts and such costs are expensed as incurred, as the life of the underlying contract is less than one year. Accordingly, we have concluded, based on the structure of our contracts, no adjustments are necessary under Topic 606. As a result of the adoption of the new standard, we changed our accounting policy for revenue recognition and the details of the significant changes and quantitative impact of the changes are disclosed below. Distributor sales - Some of our contracts with distributors provide the distributor with certain concessions and price protection credits. Under Topic 605, Revenue, these concessions and price protection credits were not fixed or determinable and, as a result, the associated revenue was deferred until delivery of the product to the end customer. At the time of shipment to distributors, we recorded a trade receivable for the selling price as there was a legally enforceable obligation of the distributor to pay for the product delivered, inventory was reduced by the carrying value of goods shipped, and the net of these amounts, the gross profit, was recorded as deferred income on shipments to distributors on the balance sheet. Under Topic 606, we recognize revenue from sales to distributors when control of the product is transferred to the distributor and estimate the amount of concessions and price protection credits at the point of revenue recognition. Accordingly, the balance of the deferred income on shipments to distributors was eliminated as a cumulative effect adjustment of implementing Topic 606 as of January 1, 2018, net of our estimate of concessions and price protection credits for those contracts. 46 Table of Contents Performance obligations delivered over time - Topic 605 permitted straight-line recognition of revenue for performance obligations that were delivered over time. The new revenue standard requires an entity to recognize revenue based on the pattern of transfer of the services. Entities must use either an input method or an output method to measure progress toward complete satisfaction of a performance obligation. We determined that the input method of measuring time elapsed to date compared to total estimated time to be incurred under the contract most faithfully depicts our performance. Under Topic 606, we will record an unbilled receivable (within accounts receivable, net) for the portion of the service that has been completed but not invoiced at the end of each reporting period. Milestone payments Topic 605 permitted recognition using the milestone method, whereby revenue was recognized upon the completion of substantive milestones once the customers acknowledge the milestones have been met and the collection of the amounts is reasonably assured. The milestone method no longer exists under the new revenue standard. Revenue from milestone payments must be estimated using either the expected value method or the most likely amount method. If it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue would not occur, the associated milestone value is included in the transaction price. The adoption of Topic 606 did not have an impact on milestone revenue recorded to date as the practical expedient adopted for a single contract resulted in revenue recognition similar to milestone revenue under Topic 605. Sales-based royalties Topic 605 permitted recognition of royalties when reported to us, which generally coincided with the receipt of payment. Under the new revenue standard, we record revenue generated from sales-based royalties from licenses of our technology at the later of when (1) the sale occurs or (2) the performance obligation to which some or all of the sales-based royalty has been allocated is satisfied (in whole or in part). ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718) Scope of Modification Accounting, which is intended to amend the scope of modification accounting for share-based payment arrangements. The amendments in the update provide guidance on types of changes to the terms or conditions of share-based payment awards that would require us to apply modification accounting under ASC 718, Compensation-Stock Compensation. This ASU is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and early adoption was permitted. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2018 and the impact of its adoption on our financial statements was not material. ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 identifies how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the Statement of Cash Flows. The standard is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The standard should be applied retrospectively and early adoption was permitted, including adoption in an interim period. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2018, and the impact of its adoption on our financial statements was not material. Recently Issued Pronouncements In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 201602, Leases, which establishes a comprehensive new lease accounting model. The new standard: (a) clarifies the definition of a lease; (b) requires a dual approach to lease classification similar to current lease classifications; and (c) causes lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet as a lease liability with a corresponding right-of-use asset for leases with a lease-term of more than twelve months. This ASU is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2018. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842 Leases and ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842) Targeted Improvements. ASU 2018-10 clarifies how to apply certain aspects of ASU 2016-02. We will adopt this standard on January 1, 2019 using the modified retrospective method. We are substantially complete with our analysis as to the impact of adoption and estimate that the adoption will result in the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for operating leases within the range of approximately $3.6 million to $4.0 million on our balance sheet, with no material impact to our statement of operations. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement 47 Table of Contents of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which amends the incurred loss impairment methodology in current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. ASU 2016-13 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2019, and requires a cumulative effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the first reporting period in which the guidance is effective. We are evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our financial statements. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2018-07 is intended to reduce the cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for nonemployee share-based payments. The ASU expands the scope of Topic 718, (which currently only includes share-based payments to employees) to include share-based payments issued to nonemployees for goods or services. Consequently, the accounting for share-based payments to nonemployees and employees will be substantially aligned. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within that fiscal year. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than a companys adoption date of Topic 606. We adopted this standard on January 1, 2019, and the impact of its adoption on our financial statements was not material. In August 2018, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) adopted the final rule under SEC Release No. 33-10532, Disclosure Update and Simplification, amending certain disclosure requirements that were redundant, duplicative, overlapping, outdated or superseded. In addition, the amendments expanded the disclosure requirements on the analysis of stockholders' equity for interim financial statements. Under the amendments, an analysis of changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheet must be provided in a note or separate statement. The analysis should present a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance of each period for which a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed. This final rule is effective on November 5, 2018; however, in light of the proximity of the effective date to the filing date for most filers quarterly reports, the SEC will allow a filers first presentation of the changes in stockholders equity to be included in its Form 10-Q for the quarter that begins after the effective date. We will begin to present a statement of changes in stockholders equity in our quarterly financial statements beginning on January 1, 2019.