Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless the context requires otherwise, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to "EverCommerce," the Company, we, us and our refer to EverCommerce Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 (the Annual Report on Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 14, 2024. Additionally, our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview EverCommerce is a leading provider of integrated, vertically-tailored software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions for service-based small- and medium-sized businesses (service SMBs). Our platform spans across the full lifecycle of interactions between consumers and service professionals with vertical-specific applications. Today, we serve more than 708,000 customers across three core verticals: Home Services; Health Services; and Fitness & Wellness Services. Within our core verticals, our customers operate within numerous micro-verticals, ranging from home service professionals, such as home improvement contractors and home maintenance technicians, to physician practices and therapists within Health Services, to personal trainers and salon owners within Fitness & Wellness. Our platform provides vertically-tailored SaaS solutions that address service SMBs increasingly specialized demands, as well as highly complementary solutions that provide fully-integrated offerings, allowing service SMBs and EverCommerce to succeed in the market, and provide end consumers more convenient service experiences. We offer several vertically-tailored suites of solutions, each of which follows a similar and repeatable go-to-market playbook: offer a system of action Business Management Software that streamlines daily business workflows, integrate highly complementary, value-add adjacent solutions and complete gaps in the value chain to create end-to-end solutions. These solutions focus on addressing how service SMBs market their services, streamline operations and retain and engage their customers. Business Management Software: Our vertically-tailored Business Management Software is the system of action at the center of a service businesss operation, and is typically the point-of-entry and first solution adopted by a customer. Our software, designed to meet the day-to-day workflow needs of businesses in specific vertical end markets, streamlines front and back-office processes and provides polished customer-facing experiences. Using these offerings, service SMBs can focus on growing their customers, improving their services and driving more efficient operations. Billing & Payment Solutions: Our Billing & Payment Solutions provide integrated payments, billing and invoicing automation and business intelligence and analytics. Our omni-channel payments capabilities include point-of-sale, eCommerce, online bill payments, recurring billing, electronic invoicing and mobile payments. Supported payment types include credit card, debit card and Automated Clearing House (ACH) processing. Our payments platform also provides a full suite of service commerce features, including customer management as well as cash flow reporting and analytics. These value-add features help small- and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) to ensure more timely billing and payments collection and provide improved cash flow visibility. Customer Experience Solutions: Our Customer Experience Solutions modernize how businesses engage and interact with customers by leveraging innovative, bespoke customer listening and communication solutions to improve the customer experience and increase retention. Our software provides customer listening capabilities with real-time customer surveying and analysis to allow standalone businesses and multi-location brands to receive voice of the customer (VoC) insights and manage the customer experience lifecycle. These applications include: customer health scoring, customer support systems, real-time alerts, Net Promoter Score-based customer feedback collection, review generation and automation, reputation management, customer satisfaction surveying and a digital communication suite, among others. These tools help our customers gain actionable insights, increase customer loyalty and repeat purchases and improve customer experiences. Marketing Technology Solutions: Our Marketing Technology Solutions work with our Customer Experience Solutions to help customers build their businesses by invigorating marketing operations and improving return on investment across the customer lifecycle. These solutions help businesses to manage campaigns, generate quality leads, increase conversion and repeat sales, improve customer loyalty and provide a polished brand experience. Our solutions include: custom website design, development and hosting, responsive web design, marketing campaign design and management, search engine optimization (SEO), paid search and display advertising, social media and blog automation, call tracking, review monitoring and marketplace lead generation, among others. 18 We go to market with suites of solutions that are aligned to our three core verticals: (i) the EverPro suite of solutions in Home Services; (ii) the EverHealth suite of solutions within Health Services; and (iii) the EverWell suite of solutions in Fitness & Wellness Services. Within each suite, our Business Management Software the system of action at the center of a service business operation is typically the first solution adopted by a customer. This vertically-tailored point-of-entry provides us with an opportunity to cross-sell adjacent products, previously offered as fragmented and disjointed point solutions by other software providers. This land and expand strategy allows us to acquire customers with key foundational solutions and expand into offerings via product development and acquisitions that cover all workflows and power the full scope of our customers businesses. This results in a self-reinforcing flywheel effect, enabling us to drive value for our customers and, in turn, improve customer stickiness, increase our market share and fuel our growth. We generate three types of revenue: (i) Subscription and Transaction Fees, which are primarily recurring revenue streams, (ii) Marketing Technology Solutions, which includes both recurring and re-occurring revenue streams and (iii) Other revenue which consists primarily of one-time revenue streams. Our recurring revenue generally consists of monthly, quarterly and annual software and maintenance subscriptions, transaction revenue associated with integrated payments and billing solutions and monthly contracts for Marketing Technology Solutions. Additionally, our re-occurring revenue includes revenue related to the sale of marketing campaigns and lead generation under contractual arrangements with customers. Our business benefits from attractive unit economics. Approximately 97% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was recurring or re-occurring, and we maintained an annualized net pro forma revenue retention rate of approximately 93% for the quarter ended March 31, 2024. Excluding our marketing technology solutions, our annualized net revenue retention rate for our core software and payments solutions was approximately 99% for the three months ended March 31, 2024. We believe the retention and growth of revenue from our existing customers is a helpful measure of the health of our business and our future growth prospects. Our ability to cross sell additional products and services to our existing customers can increase customer engagement with our suite of solutions and thus have a positive impact on our net pro forma revenue retention rate. For example, we have leveraged our land and expand strategy to cross sell solutions to our existing customers, which has supported our high net pro forma revenue retention rate by increasing customer utilization of our solutions, educating customers as to how our platform and synergies can support their businesses and, in turn, improving customer stickiness. We calculate our monthly net pro forma revenue retention rate for a particular month as the recurring or re-occurring revenue gained/lost from existing customers, less the recurring or re-occurring revenue lost from cancelled customers, as a percentage of total recurring or re-occurring revenue 12 months prior, divided by 12. For existing customers, we consider customers that existed 11 or more months prior to the current month and that do not have an end date (i.e., cancelled relationship) on or after the first day of the current month. For example, the recurring or re-occurring revenue gained/lost from existing customers in November 2023 is the difference between the recurring or re-occurring revenue generated in November 2023 and the same such revenue generated in November 2022, for customers with a start date prior to December 1, 2022 and no end date or cancelled relationship on or after November 1, 2023. For cancelled customers, we examine customers that cancelled their relationships on or after the first day of the month that is 12 months prior to the current month and before the first day of the current month. For example, the recurring or re-occurring revenue lost from cancelled customers in November 2023 is the difference between the recurring or re-occurring revenue generated in November 2023 and the same such revenue generated in November 2022, for customers that cancelled on or after November 1, 2022 and before November 1, 2023. Net pro forma revenue retention is calculated as if acquisitions and dispositions that were closed during the prior period presented were closed on the first day of such period presented. Our calculation of net pro forma revenue retention rate for any fiscal period includes the positive recurring and re-occurring revenue impacts of selling new solutions to existing customers and the negative impacts of contraction and attrition among this set of customers. Our net pro forma revenue retention rate may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the growing level of our revenue base, the level of penetration within our customer base, expansion of solutions, new acquisitions and dispositions and our ability to retain our customers. Our calculation of net pro forma revenue retention rate may differ from similarly titled metrics presented by other companies. Sale of Fitness Solutions On March 13, 2024, we entered into definitive sale and purchase agreements to sell our fitness solutions to Jonas Software (see Note 4. Disposition and Held for Sale in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). The sale of North American Fitness closed simultaneously with signing. The sale of UK Fitness is subject to customer closing conditions and regulatory approval by the Financial Conduct Authority and is expected to close during the third quarter of 2024. The assets and liabilities of the UK Fitness disposal group are classified as held for sale and presented within other current assets and other current liabilities on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2024. The divestiture did not qualify for reporting as a discontinued operation. As a result, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements include the results of North American Fitness for all periods through the date of sale, while the UK Fitness results are included in our results of operations. In connection with the sale of North American Fitness and the classification of assets and liabilities of UK Fitness as held for sale, we recognized a a loss of $4.8 million related to 19 the disposal of North American Fitness, a goodwill impairment charge of $3.4 million representing the allocated goodwill to North American Fitness and a loss on assets held for sale of $2.6 million related to UK Fitness during the three months ended March 31, 2024, which are included within loss on held for sale and impairments on our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Impact of Macroeconomic Climate The macroeconomic climate continues to see pressure from global developments such as international geopolitical conflict, terrorism, rising inflation, fluctuations in the value of the US Dollar, rising interest rates and supply chain disruptions. These developments have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and demand for our products and services, as well as on our costs of doing business. We have taken and will continue to take actions to help mitigate the impact of these economic challenges, but there can be no assurance as to the effectiveness of our efforts going forward. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our performance and future success depends on a number of factors that present significant opportunities for us but also pose risks and challenges. For discussion of these factors, please see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Factors Affecting Our Performance included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. For a discussion about why we consider our Non-GAAP measures useful and a discussion of the material risks and limitations of such measures, please see Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Key Business and Financial Metrics Non-GAAP Financial Measures included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 14, 2024. Key Business and Financial Metrics (Non-GAAP Financial Measures) In addition to our results and measures of performance determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we believe the following key business and non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating and comparing our financial and operational performance over multiple periods, identifying trends affecting our business, formulating business plans and making strategic decisions. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate is a key performance measure that our management uses to assess our consolidated operating performance over time. Management also uses this metric for planning and forecasting purposes. Our year-over-year Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate is calculated as though all acquisitions and divestitures completed as of the end of the latest period were completed as of the first day of the prior year period presented. In calculating Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate, we add the revenue from acquisitions for the reporting periods prior to the date of acquisition (including estimated purchase accounting adjustments) and exclude revenue from divestitures and held for sale assets for the reporting periods prior to the date of divestiture, and then calculate our revenue growth rate between the two reported periods. As a result, Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate includes pro forma revenue from businesses acquired and excludes revenue from businesses divested of during the period, including revenue generated during periods when we did not yet own the acquired businesses and excludes revenue prior to the divestiture of the business. In including such pre-acquisition revenue and excluding pre-divestiture revenue, Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate allows us to measure the underlying revenue growth of our business as it stands as of the end of the respective period, which we believe provides insight into our then-current operations. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rate does not represent organic revenue generated by our business as it stood at the beginning of the respective period. Pro Forma Revenue Growth Rates are not necessarily indicative of either future results of operations or actual results that might have been achieved had the acquisitions and divestitures been consummated on the first day of the prior year period presented. We believe that this metric is useful to investors in analyzing our financial and operational performance period over period and evaluating the growth of our business, normalizing for the impact of acquisitions and divestitures. This metric is particularly useful to management due to the number of acquired entities. Our Pro Forma Revenue Growth rate was 5.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, reflective of the underlying growth in our business including new customers and providing more solutions to existing customers. Adjusted Gross Profit Gross profit is calculated as total revenue less cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization), amortization of developed technology, amortization of capitalized software and depreciation expense (allocated to cost of revenues). We calculate Adjusted Gross Profit as gross profit adjusted to exclude non-cash charges of depreciation and amortization allocated to cost of revenues. Adjusted Gross Profit should be viewed as a measure of operating performance that is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, operating income or loss, net earnings or loss and other GAAP measures of income (loss) or profitability. 20 The following table presents a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted Gross Profit on a consolidated basis. Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (in thousands) Revenue $ 170,113 $ 161,136 $ 8,977 Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 56,793 55,946 847 Amortization of developed technology 2,103 3,824 (1,721) Amortization of capitalized software 2,522 1,814 708 Depreciation expense allocated to cost of revenues 276 271 5 Gross profit 108,419 99,281 9,138 Depreciation and amortization 4,901 5,909 (1,008) Adjusted gross profit $ 113,320 $ 105,190 $ 8,130 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as net loss adjusted to exclude interest and other expense, net, income tax expense (benefit), depreciation and amortization, other amortization, stock-based compensation, and transaction-related and other non-recurring costs. Other amortization includes amortization for capitalized contract acquisition costs. Transaction-related costs are specific deal-related costs such as legal fees, financial and tax due diligence, consulting and escrow fees. Other non-recurring costs are expenses such as impairment charges, (gains) losses from disposition and assets held for sale, system implementation costs, severance expense related to planned restructuring activities, and costs associated with integration and transformation improvements. Transaction-related and other non-recurring costs are excluded as they are not representative of our underlying operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA should be viewed as a measure of operating performance that is a supplement to, and not a substitute for, operating income or loss, net earnings or loss and other GAAP measures of income (loss). The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP, to Adjusted EBITDA on a consolidated basis. Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (in thousands) Net loss $ (16,324) $ (20,775) $ 4,451 Adjusted to exclude the following: Interest and other expense, net 5,791 15,188 (9,397) Income tax expense 5,923 299 5,624 Depreciation and amortization 22,951 25,950 (2,999) Other amortization 1,670 1,309 361 Stock-based compensation expense 5,576 7,514 (1,938) Transaction-related and other non-recurring costs 15,303 2,453 12,850 Adjusted EBITDA $ 40,890 $ 31,938 $ 8,952 Description of Certain Components of Financial Data For additional information concerning our accounting policies, see Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenues We derive our revenue from three primary sources which are described in detail below: (i) Subscription and Transaction Fees, which are primarily recurring revenue streams, (ii) Marketing Technology Solutions, which includes both recurring and re-occurring revenue streams and (iii) Other revenue, which consists primarily of the sale of distinct professional services and hardware. Our revenue 21 recognition policies are discussed in more detail below under Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates. Subscription and Transaction Fees: Revenue includes (i) recurring monthly, quarterly and annual SaaS subscriptions and software license and maintenance fees from the sale of our Business Management, Customer Experience and Billing and Payment solutions; (ii) payment processing fees based on the transaction volumes processed through our integrated payment solutions and processing fees based on transaction volumes for our revenue cycle management, chronic care management and health insurance clearinghouse solutions; and (iii) membership subscriptions and our share of rebates from suppliers generated though group purchasing programs. Our revenue from payment processing fees is recorded net of credit card and ACH processing and interchange charges in the month the services are performed. Marketing Technology Solutions: Revenue includes (i) recurring revenues for managing digital advertising programs on behalf of our customers including website hosting, search engine management and optimization, social media management and blog automation; and (ii) re-occurring fees paid by service professionals for consumer leads generated by our various platforms. Other: Revenue includes (i) consulting, implementation, training and other professional services; (ii) website development; (iii) revenue from various business development partnerships; (iv) event income; and (v) hardware sales related to our business management or payment software solutions. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenue (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) consists of expenses related to delivering our services and products and providing support to our customers and includes employee costs and related overhead, customer credit card processing fees, targeted mail costs, third-party fulfillment costs and software hosting expenses. We expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will fluctuate from period to period based on a variety of factors, including the mix of revenue between subscription and transaction fees and marketing technology solutions, labor costs, third-party expenses and acquisitions and dispositions. In particular, marketing technology solutions revenue generally has a higher cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue than our subscription and transaction fee revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, revenue from subscription and transaction fees increased 8.8%, and revenue from marketing technology solutions decreased 4.7% compared to the prior year period. To the extent our marketing technology solutions revenue grows at a faster rate, whether by acquisition or otherwise, than our subscription and transaction fees revenue, it could negatively impact our cost of revenues as a percentage of revenue. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of employee costs for our sales and marketing personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, stock-based compensation and sales commissions. Sales and marketing expenses also include advertising costs, travel-related expenses and costs to market and promote our products, direct customer acquisition costs, costs related to conferences and events and partner/broker commissions. Software and subscription services dedicated for use by our sales and marketing organization, and outside services contracted for sales and marketing purposes are also included in sales and marketing expense. Sales commissions that are incremental to obtaining a customer contract are deferred and amortized ratably over the estimated period of our relationship with that customer. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase investments to support our growth. Product Development Product development expense consists primarily of employee costs for our product development personnel, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and bonuses. Product development expenses also include third-party outsourced technology costs incurred in developing our platforms, and computer equipment, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our product development organization. We expect our product development expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to dedicate substantial resources to develop, improve and expand the functionality of our solutions. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists of employee costs for our executive leadership, accounting, finance, legal, human resources and other administrative personnel, including salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include external legal, accounting and other professional services fees, rent, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative employees and other general corporate expenses. We expect general and administrative expense to increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future as we continue to increase investments to support our growth and due to increased costs as a result of being a public company. 22 Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization primarily relate to intangible assets, property and equipment and capitalized software. Loss on Held for Sale and Impairments Loss on held for sale represents the measurement of the UK Fitness disposal group at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less costs to sell in the period the held for sale criteria are met, and subsequent remeasurement each reporting period the disposal group remains classified as held for sale. Impairments include a goodwill impairment charge representing the allocated goodwill to North American Fitness, and a loss on disposition from the sale of North American Fitness representing the difference between the consideration received and the net carrying amount of the assets sold and transaction costs (see Note 4. Disposition and Held for Sale in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). Impairments also include operating lease impairments related to the Companys decision to cease use of certain leased premises and sublease certain facilities. Interest and Other Expense, net Interest and other expense, net, primarily consists of interest expense on long-term debt, net of interest income. It also includes amortization expense of financing costs and discounts, as well as realized and unrealized gains and losses related to interest rate swap agreements. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit U.S. GAAP requires deferred tax assets and liabilities to be recognized for temporary differences between the tax basis and financial reporting basis of assets and liabilities, computed at the expected tax rates for the periods in which the assets or liabilities will be realized, as well as for the expected tax (expense) benefit of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Income taxes are recognized for the amount of taxes payable by the Company's corporate subsidiaries for the current year and for the impact of deferred tax assets and liabilities, which represent future tax consequences of events that have been recognized differently in the financial statements than for tax purposes. 23 Results of Operations The following tables summarize key components of our results of operations for the periods presented. The period-to-period comparisons of our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our results of operations that may be expected in the future. The following comparative information for results of operations includes the results of North American Fitness for all periods through the date of sale. Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 134,724 $ 123,820 $ 10,904 Marketing technology solutions 30,292 31,788 (1,496) Other 5,097 5,528 (431) Total revenues 170,113 161,136 8,977 Operating expenses: Cost of revenues (1) (exclusive of depreciation and amortization presented separately below) 56,793 55,946 847 Sales and marketing (1) 29,768 30,899 (1,131) Product development (1) 20,200 18,703 1,497 General and administrative (1) 33,790 33,863 (73) Depreciation and amortization 22,951 25,950 (2,999) Loss on held for sale and impairments 11,221 1,063 10,158 Total operating expenses 174,723 166,424 8,299 Operating loss (4,610) (5,288) 678 Interest and other expense, net (5,791) (15,188) 9,397 Net loss before income tax expense (10,401) (20,476) 10,075 Income tax expense (5,923) (299) (5,624) Net loss $ (16,324) $ (20,775) $ 4,451 (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 116 $ 108 $ 8 Sales and marketing 341 402 (61) Product development 527 562 (35) General and administrative 4,592 6,442 (1,850) Total stock-based compensation expense $ 5,576 $ 7,514 $ (1,938) 24 Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 (percentage of revenue) The following table provides the key components of operating costs within our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 % Total Revenues 100.0% 100.0% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization presented separately below) 33.4 % 34.7 % (1.3) % Sales and marketing 17.5 % 19.2 % (1.7) % Product development 11.9 % 11.6 % 0.3 % General and administrative 19.9 % 21.0 % (1.1) % Depreciation and amortization 13.5 % 16.1 % (2.6) % Loss on held for sale and impairments 6.6 % 0.7 % 5.9 % Total operating expenses 102.7 % 103.3 % (0.6) % While revenue growth remains a key focus, we remain committed to continued expansion of gross margin, net income and Adjusted EBITDA through ongoing transformation initiatives. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenues declined from 34.7% to 33.4%, an improvement of approximately 130 basis points resulting in higher gross margin. Additionally, the combination of cost of revenue, sales and marketing, product development and general and administrative costs declined from 86.5% to 82.6%, an improvement of approximately 390 basis points. A discussion on primary drivers of cost reductions resulting in improved margin follows in the subsequent sections. Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (in thousands) Revenues: Subscription and transaction fees $ 134,724 $ 123,820 $ 10,904 Marketing technology solutions 30,292 31,788 (1,496) Other 5,097 5,528 (431) Total revenues $ 170,113 $ 161,136 $ 8,977 Revenues increased $9.0 million, or 5.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in 2023.This increase was driven primarily by an $8.3 million increase from subscription and transaction revenues due to an expansion in our number of customers and certain price increases across our portfolio. Total revenue includes revenue from our fitness solutions (see Note 4. Disposition and Held for Sale in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q), of $5.4 million and $6.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Additionally, there was a $2.6 million increase due to higher transaction volumes processed through our payment platforms. The decline in marketing technology solutions revenues of $1.5 million resulted primarily from a reduction in demand driven by decreases in consumer spending. The decline in other revenue of $0.4 million was driven by revenue related to project implementation services during the three months ended March 31, 2023, which did not recur in the current year. The majority of our revenue growth is attributable to the successful delivery of system of action capabilities to our SMBs in our verticals of home services, health and wellness.The growth of revenue from subscription and transaction fees was 8.8%, partially offset by a reduction in marketing technology solutions and other revenues, which have experienced more volatility in revenue generation than the delivery of services through system of actions. 25 Cost of Revenues Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues (exclusive of depreciation and amortization presented separately below) $ 56,793 $ 55,946 $ 847 Cost of revenues increased by $0.8 million, or 1.5%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The increase is primarily comprised ofan additional $1.8 million of lead generation and ad spend subject to resale to customers, $1.3 million of outsourced services, $0.7 million of application programming interface fees, and $0.4 million of software hosting expenses, partially offset by a $1.7 million decrease in communication services and a $1.3 million decrease in personnel and compensation expense. Sales and Marketing Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 29,768 $ 30,899 $ (1,131) Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $1.1 million, or 3.7%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease was driven primarily by a $0.7 million reduction in personnel and compensation expense and $0.3 million in partner/broker commissions. Product Development Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Product development $ 20,200 $ 18,703 $ 1,497 Product development expensesincreased by $1.5 million, or 8.0%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The increase was a result of continued investment in our technology and teams to support our various solutions as well as centralized security operations, information technology and cloud engineering, driven by an additional $0.8 million of personnel and compensation expense, $0.4 million of software and tools expense, and $0.4 million of outsourced services. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 33,790 $ 33,863 $ (73) General and administrative expensesdecreased by $0.1 million, or 0.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease was driven primarily by a $1.9 million reduction in stock-based compensation expense, $0.6 million in facility expense, and $0.3 million in personnel and compensation expense, partially offset by a $2.4 million increase in professional fees primarily related to transformation initiatives. Depreciation and Amortization Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Depreciation and amortization $ 22,951 $ 25,950 $ (2,999) 26 Depreciation and amortization expenses decreased by $3.0 million, or 11.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The reduction in depreciation and amortization was driven primarily by the reduced rate of replacement assets resulting from a slowdown in business acquisitions. Specifically, these decreases were driven primarily by $3.8 million in intangible assets amortization, partially offset by $0.7 million of additional capitalized software amortization and $0.1 million of property and equipment depreciation. Loss on Held for Sale and Impairments Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Loss on held for sale and impairments $ 11,221 $ 1,063 $ 10,158 Loss on held for sale and impairments increased by $10.2 million as compared to the same period in 2023. In March 2024, we entered into definitive sale and purchase agreements to sell our fitness solutions (see Note 4. Disposition and Held for Sale in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). The North American Fitness transaction resulted in a loss on disposal of $4.8 million and a goodwill impairment charge of $3.4 million representing allocated goodwill. Additionally, we recognized a loss on held for sale of $2.6 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024, which represents the measurement of the UK Fitness disposal group at fair value less costs to sell. We did not have similar expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2023. These increases were partially offset by lower right-of-use lease asset impairments charges of $0.7 million as compared to the same period in 2023. Interest and Other Expense, net Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Interest and other expense, net $ 5,791 $ 15,188 $ (9,397) Interest and other expense, net, decreased by $9.4 million, or 61.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023. The decrease was driven primarily by volatility of interest rates, resulting in an unrealized gain of $4.8 million on the interest rate swaps recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to an unrealized loss of $4.2 million recorded in the comparative period, and a $0.5 million increase in interest income. Income Tax Expense Three months ended March 31, Change 2024 2023 $ (dollars in thousands) Income tax expense $ (5,923) $ (299) $ (5,624) Income tax expense increasedby $5.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as compared to the corresponding period in 2023, with the change driven primarily by an increase in U.S. federal and state income taxes and discrete items, including the sale of North American Fitness during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, our primary sources of liquidity have been net cash provided by operating activities, proceeds from equity issuances and proceeds from long-term debt. We utilize liquidity for items such as strategic investments in the ongoing transformation of our business and infrastructure, our recent business acquisition of Kickserv and share repurchases authorized through our Repurchase Program (defined below). For a description of our recent acquisitions, see Note 3. Acquisitions in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 3. Kickserv Acquisition in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Absent significant deterioration of market conditions, we expect that working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, the Repurchase Program, debt servicing and lease obligations will be our principal needs for liquidity going forward. As of March 31, 2024, we had cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $92.9 million, $190.0 million of available borrowing capacity under our Revolver (as defined below) and $536.3 million outstanding under our Term Loans (as defined below). We believe 27 that our existing cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash, availability under our Credit Facilities, and our cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our working capital requirements and planned capital expenditures, and to service our debt obligations for at least the next twelve months. However, our future working capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the timing and size of future acquisitions, and the timing of introductions of new products and services. If needed, additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we are unable to raise additional funds when desired, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. See Part II, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Cash Flows The following table sets forth cash flow data for the periods indicated therein: Three months ended March 31, 2024 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 13,297 $ 12,700 Net cash used in investing activities (3,606) (4,857) Net cash used in financing activities (12,371) (30,409) Effect of foreign currency exchange rate changes on cash (593) 50 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (3,273) $ (22,516) Cash Flow from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $13.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to $12.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Changes in net cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from cash received from net sales within our subscription and transaction fees and marketing technology solutions. Other drivers of the changes in net cash provided by operating activities include payments for personnel expenses for our employees, costs related to delivering our services and products, partner commissions, advertising and interest on our long-term debt. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily due to higher cash collections from our subscription and transaction fees and marketing technology solutions of approximately $6.3 million, higher interest income of $0.6 million and lower interest payments of $0.3 million, partially offset by higher costs directly related to the delivery of our services and products of $4.3 million, higher investments made to support the growth of our business of $2.5 million and higher taxes of $0.5 million. Cash Flow from Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in investing activities of $3.6 million related primarily to costs to develop software of $4.4 million and $0.4 million used for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of North American Fitness, net of transaction costs, cash and restricted cash sold for approximately $1.2 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in investing activities of $4.9 million related primarily to costs to develop software of $4.4 million and the remainder was used primarily for purchases of property and equipment. Cash Flow from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities of $12.4 million related primarily to the repurchase and retirement of shares of our common stock of $12.1 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities of $30.4 million related primarily to the repurchase and retirement of shares of our common stock of $29.6 million. For additional information regarding our repurchase and retirement of shares of our common stock, refer to Note 12. Equity in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Credit Facilities We are party to a credit agreement, as amended, that provides for two term loans for an aggregate principal amount of $550.0 million (Term Loans), a revolver with a capacity of $190.0 million (Revolver) and a sub-limit of the Revolver available for letters of 28 credit up to an aggregate face amount of $20.0 million. These debt arrangements are collectively referred to herein as the (Credit Facilities). Simultaneously with the execution of the Credit Facilities, we and various of our subsidiaries entered into a collateral agreement and guarantee agreement. Pursuant to the guarantee agreement, EverCommerce Intermediate Inc. and various of our subsidiaries are guarantors of the obligations under the Credit Facilities. Pursuant to the collateral agreement, the Credit Facilities are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets, including our intellectual property and the equity interests of our various subsidiaries, including EverCommerce Solutions Inc. The Credit Facilities contain certain affirmative and negative covenants, including, among other things, restrictions on indebtedness, issuance of preferred equity interests, liens, fundamental changes and asset sales, investments, negative pledges, repurchases of stock, dividends and other distributions, and transactions with affiliates. In addition, we are subject to a financial covenant with respect to the Revolver whereby, if the aggregate principal amount of revolving loans (excluding letters of credit) outstanding on the last day of any fiscal quarter exceeds 35% of the aggregate commitments available under the Revolver, then our first lien leverage ratio as of the last day of such fiscal quarter must be 7.50 to 1.00 or less. With respect to ABR borrowings, interest payments are due on a quarterly basis on the last business day of each March, June, September and December. With respect to Eurocurrency borrowings, interest payments are due on the last business day of the interest period applicable to the borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency borrowing with an interest period of more than three months duration, each day prior to the last day of such interest period that occurs at intervals of three months duration after the first day of such interest period. Effective as of July 1, 2023, borrowings under the Credit Facilities bear interest at the Companys option at ABR plus an applicable rate, or at a forward-looking term rate based upon the secured overnight financing rate (SOFR), plus (i) (a) with respect to Term Loans, credit spread adjustments of 0.11448%, 0.26161%, 0.42826% and 0.71513% for interest periods of one, three, six and twelve months, respectively, and (b) with respect to revolving loans, a credit spread adjustment of 0.0% (Adjusted SOFR) plus (ii) an applicable rate, in each case with such applicable rate based on the Companys first lien net leverage ratio. The ABR represents the highest of the prime rate, Federal Reserve Bank of New York rate plus of 1%, and the Adjusted SOFR for a one month interest period plus 1%. The applicable rate for the Term Loans and the Revolver is 3.0% for Adjusted SOFR borrowings and 2.0% for ABR borrowings, in each case subject to change based on our first lien net leverage ratio. Effective October 31, 2022, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement in connection with the Companys Credit Facilities for a notional amount of $200.0 million to convert a portion of the floating rate component of the Term Loans from a floating rate to a fixed rate (the Initial Swap). The Initial Swap has a term of five years with a fixed rate in the agreement of 4.212%, as amended in June 2023. Additionally, effective March 31, 2023, the Company entered into a second interest rate swap agreement in connection with the Companys Credit Facilities for a notional amount of $100.0 million to convert a portion of the floating rate component of the Term Loans from a floating rate to a fixed rate (the Second Swap). The Second Swap has a term of approximately 4.5 years with a fixed rate in the agreement of 3.951%, as amended in June 2023. The Revolver has a variable commitment fee, which is based on our first lien leverage ratio. We expect the commitment fee to range from 0.25% to 0.375% per annum. We are obligated to pay a fixed fronting fee for letters of credit of 0.125% per annum. Amounts borrowed under the Revolver may be repaid and re-borrowed through maturity of the Revolver in July 2026. The Term Loans mature in July 2028. The Term Loans may be repaid or prepaid but may not be re-borrowed. As of March 31, 2024, there was $536.3 million outstanding under our Credit Facilities, all of which was related to the Term Loans as no amounts were outstanding under the Revolver. The effective interest rate on the Term Loans was approximately 8.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, excluding the effect of any interest rate swap agreements. As of March 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the covenants under the Credit Facilities. Stock Repurchase Program On June 14, 2022, our Board of Directors approved the stock repurchase program (as subsequently amended, the Repurchase Program) with authorization to purchase up to $50.0 million in shares of the Companys common stock through the expiration of the program on December 21, 2022. On November 7, 2022, our Board of Directors approved an expansion of the Repurchase Program with authorization to purchase up to an additional $50.0 million in shares of the Companys common stock ($100.0 million total) and an extension to the expiration of the Repurchase Program through December 31, 2023. On November 5, 2023, our Board approved an additional expansion of the Repurchase Program with authorization to purchase up to an additional $50.0 million in shares of the Companys common stock (from $100.0 million to $150.0 million in total) and extended the expiration of the Repurchase Program through December 31, 2024. Repurchases under the program may be made in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or 29 otherwise, with the amount and timing of repurchases to be determined at the Companys discretion, depending on market conditions and corporate needs. The Repurchase Program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock and may be modified, suspended or terminated at any time at the discretion of the Board. The Company expects to fund repurchases with existing cash on hand. The Company repurchased and retired 1.2 million shares of common stock for approximately $12.1 million, including transaction fees and taxes, during the three months ended March 31, 2024. As of March 31, 2024, $27.9 million remained available under the Repurchase Program. Contractual Obligations There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2024 from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Refer to Notes 10. Leases, 11. Long-Term Debt and 17. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of our operating leases, debt and contractual obligations, respectively. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect certain reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our critical accounting policies are described in Part II Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, there were no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of accounting pronouncements recently adopted and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted, and their potential impact to our financial statements. Election Under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 The Company currently qualifies as an emerging growth company under the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Accordingly, the Company is provided the option to adopt new or revised accounting guidance either (i) within the same periods as those otherwise applicable to non-emerging growth companies or (ii) within the same time periods as private companies. The Company has elected to adopt new or revised accounting guidance within the same time period as private companies, unless management determines it is preferable to take advantage of early adoption provisions offered within the applicable guidance. Our utilization of these transition periods may make it difficult to compare our financial statements to those of non-emerging growth companies and other emerging growth companies that have opted out of the transition periods afforded under the JOBS Act.