Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com tm , Expedia Affiliate Network (EAN), Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert tm , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia tm , eLong tm , Venere Net SpA (Venere) and trivago GmbH (trivago), a leading hotel metasearch company based in Germany acquired during the first quarter of 2013. In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2012 represented a year of gradual improvement for the travel industry. However, natural disasters, such as Hurricane Sandy that impacted the northeast United States, ongoing sovereign debt and economic issues in several European countries as well as uncertainty regarding the U.S. debt ceiling and sequestration, all contribute to a somewhat uncertain forward environment for the travel industry. 21 Table of Contents Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2012, approximately 59% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occur online, compared with approximately 44% of European travel. Online penetration in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions are estimated to be approximately 20%, lagging behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (which entered into a merger agreement with Priceline.com in November 2012) and trivago.com (in which Expedia acquired a majority ownership interest in March 2013), have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies. In addition, models, such as daily deals and private sale sites have also begun proliferating. We have a number of daily deals offered on our retail websites as well as a partnership with Groupon called Groupon Getaways with Expedia. Finally, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google and Microsoft. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both a merchant and an agency hotel offer for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve. During 2012, Expedia introduced the Expedia Traveler Preference program to hotel suppliers in the United States and Europe and is now in the process of rolling the program out globally. ETP offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is lower than that for our consolidated business but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. Hotel We generate the majority of our revenue through the marketing and distribution of hotel rooms (stand-alone and package bookings). Our relationships and negotiated total economics with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years. We have, however, implemented new customer loyalty and discount programs and have eliminated or reduced some fees in that timeframe and, as such, the margin of revenue we earn per booking has declined. In addition, the introduction of ETP could negatively impact the margin of revenue we earn per booking in the future. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in average daily rates (ADRs) has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last two years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry have generally improved in a gradually improving overall travel environment. Currently occupancy rates are near 2007 peaks and there is very little new, net hotel supply being added in the U.S. lodging market with large chains focusing their development opportunities in international markets. This may help hoteliers with their objective of continuing to grow their ADRs and could lead to pressure in negotiations with hoteliers and may ultimately lead to pressure on terms for us and our OTA competitors. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a much faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with more than 205,000 hotels on our global websites, including eLong, as of the end of the first quarter of 2013. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights growing 18% in 2011, 27% in 2012 and 28% for the first quarter of 2013. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites grew 5% in 2011, declined 2% in 2012, and were essentially flat for the first quarter of 2013. 22 Table of Contents Air The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. In recent years, there has been increased air carrier consolidation, generally resulting in lower overall capacity and higher fares. In addition, air carriers have made significant efforts to keep seat capacity relatively low in order to ensure that demand for seats remains high and that flights are as full as possible. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Ticket prices on Expedia sites were essentially flat for the first quarter of 2013 and increased 4% and 11% in 2012 and 2011. We are encountering pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew, and as air carriers and GDS intermediaries re-negotiate their long-term agreements. In addition, some U.S. air carriers introduced various incentives for customers to book directly with the carrier versus via online travel agencies. Examples of these incentives include lower fees, advance seat assignments and greater earning potential for frequent flier miles. In part as a result of sharply rising average ticket prices, our ticket volumes decreased by 8% in 2011 after having grown by 11% in 2010. Air ticket volumes grew 9% for the first quarter of 2013 and 7% in 2012, largely due to the acquisition of VIA Travel. From a product perspective, over 70% of our revenue comes from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with approximately 10% of our revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We believe that the hotel product is the most profitable of the products we distribute and represents our best overall growth opportunity. Growth Strategy Product Innovation . Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. They each operate a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and helps customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technological platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched our new Hotels.com global platform in the first quarter of 2010, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle for that brand. Since then, we have been successful in improving conversion and driving much faster growth rates for the Hotels.com brand. We are in the midst of a similar transformation for Brand Expedia, having rolled out its new hotel platform in the second half of 2011, followed by the air platform rollout during the first half of 2012 and the new package platform in the first quarter of 2013. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, EAN, and Hotwire brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. We own a majority share of eLong, which is the second largest online travel company in China. We also own Venere, a European brand, which focuses on marketing hotel rooms in Europe. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in 55 countries around the world and continues to expand, including its 2012 acquisition of VIA Travel. We also partner in a 50/50 joint venture with AirAsia a low cost carrier serving the Asia - Pacific region to jointly grow an online travel agency business. Although the results for the joint venture are not consolidated in our financial statements, we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. In 2012, approximately 41% of our worldwide gross bookings and 45% of worldwide revenue were international up from 22% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. In the first quarter of 2013, 44% of our worldwide gross bookings and 45% of worldwide revenue were international. We have a stated goal of driving more than half of our revenue through international points of sale. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, we completed our majority acquisition of trivago, GmbH (trivago), a Dusseldorf, Germany-based leading hotel metasearch company featuring price comparison from over 600,000 hotels on over 150 booking sites worldwide. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is already one of the best known travel brands in Europe. trivago will continue to operate independently, and plans to rapidly grow revenue through global expansion. 23 Table of Contents In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale affords the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an increasingly larger supply portfolio and creates opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technology very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements to conversion. New Channel Penetration. Today, the vast majority of online travel bookings are generated through typical desktop and laptop computers. However, technological innovations and developments are creating new opportunities including travel bookings made through mobile devices. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile/tablet applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends. In 2010, we bought a leading travel application company called Mobiata which is responsible for several top travel applications, such as FlightTrack TM , FlightTrack Pro TM and FlightBoard TM , and is now integrated into Brand Expedia. We believe mobile bookings present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are typically completed within one day of the travel or stay which is a much shorter booking window than we have historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. During the last year, customers behaviors and preferences on tablet devices began to show differences from trends seen on smartphones. For example, the booking window on a smartphone typically is much shorter than the emerging trend on the tablet device and historical average on a desktop or laptop. We have a stated goal of booking 20% of our transactions through mobile devices before the end of 2014. Virtually all of our leisure brands continue to conduct experiments with daily deals and social media as part of our efforts to drive business through new distribution channels. We believe daily deals may represent incremental travel bookings as it typically represents an impulse purchase compared to historical travel purchasing activity which tends to be a highly considered and deliberate transaction. In addition, we anticipate the importance of social media channels to consumers and to our industry to increase over time. It is our intention to grow our social efforts alongside this trend. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in the merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the more stable nature of our fixed costs. As a result, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our 24 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in forty-two lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: City of Los Angeles, Litigation. On April 18, 2013, the trial court held that the online travel companies are not liable to remit hotel occupancy taxes to the city of Los Angeles. San Antonio, Texas Litigation. On April 4, 2013, the court entered a final judgment holding the online travel companies liable for hotel occupancy taxes to counties and cities in the statewide class. City of Gallup, New Mexico Litigation. On March 29, 2013, the court denied the city of Gallups claim that the online travel companies collected taxes that have not been remitted to the city and dismissed the citys remaining claims in the case. On April 2, 2013, the court entered final judgment dismissing all claims against the online travel companies with prejudice. Nassau County, New York Litigation. On April 11, 2013, the court granted plaintiffs motion for class certification. City of San Francisco Litigation. On February 6, 2013, the court held that the online travel companies are not liable to remit hotel occupancy taxes to the city of San Francisco. Leon County, Florida et al. Litigation. On February 23, 2013, the court of appeals affirmed the trial court decision in the Leon County, Florida litigation that online travel companies are not liable for hotel occupancy taxes. Denver, Colorado Litigation. On March 12, 2013, the trial court held that the online travel companies are liable for hotel occupancy taxes to the city and county of Denver, but held that taxes may not be collected for periods prior to April 2007 due to the bar of the statute of limitations. 25 Table of Contents State of Wyoming Litigation. On February 28, 2013, the Wyoming Board of Equalization ruled that the online travel companies are liable for sales tax on their online services to the State of Wyoming. The online travel companies have appealed. The Wyoming District Court has certified the appeal to the Wyoming Supreme Court, which has not yet determined whether it will hear the appeal directly or require the District Court to hear it first. City of Fargo, North Dakota Litigation. On February 25, 2013, the city of Fargo, North Dakota brought an action in North Dakota state court against a number of online travel companies, including Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire. City of Warrenville, Illinois Litigation. On April 5, 2013, a number of Illinois municipalities filed a putative class action in Illinois federal court against a number of online travel companies, including Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $34 million as of March 31, 2013, which includes amounts expected to be paid in connection with the developments described above, and $35 million as of December 31, 2012. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission by the taxpayer that it believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2009, we expensed $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings with the city of San Francisco. The city of San Francisco has issued additional assessments of tax, penalties and interest for the time period from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2011 against the online travel companies, including $22 million against Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire. The additional assessments, including the prepayment of such assessments, have been contested by the online travel companies. The city has agreed, subject to documentation, that this second assessment need not be paid and may be placed under a bond. During 2010, we expensed $3 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the city of Santa Monica; these funds were returned to us by the city in December 2011 in exchange for a letter of credit. The online travel companies subsequently prevailed in the litigation and the letter of credit in favor of the city has been voided. Hotels.com is currently under audit by the State of Texas and there is a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse audit result in court. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the cities hotel occupancy tax ordinances. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina and Minnesota, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. We are currently remitting taxes to the city of New York, the state of New York, the state and local jurisdictions of South Carolina, the State of Minnesota, the District of Columbia, and the state and local jurisdictions of Georgia. Other Tax Litigation Hawaii Tax Court Litigation (General Excise Tax). On November 7, 2012, the parties filed cross motions for summary judgment on the issue of whether the online travel companies are liable for payment of Hawaiis General Excise Tax. On January 11, 2013, the court held that the online travel companies owed past General Excise Tax on the total amount paid by a customer for the online travel companies services and the charge for the hotel room. The court ruled that the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest, which the Director of Taxation has claimed totals $110 million, comprised of $78 million relating to tax liability from January 2000 to December 2011 and $32 million in interest from January 2000 to December 2012 for Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire (the Expedia Subsidiaries). On March 26 Table of Contents 15, 2013, the court assessed penalties against the online travel companies. Under this ruling the state is seeking penalties and interest of $60 million against the Expedia Subsidiaries, representing 50% of the tax liability plus interest thereon. On March 28, 2013, the online travel companies filed a petition for mandamus to the Hawaii Supreme Court requesting that the court reverse the trial courts ruling that online travel companies must remit tax on gross bookings and therefore subject the hotels charge for the room to double taxation. On April 22, 2013, the Hawaii Supreme Court denied the online travel companies petition for mandamus. The case will now proceed on appeal. The state has dismissed without prejudice its common law claims for recovery of taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we accrued $110 million and during the three months ended March 31, 2013, we accrued an additional $60 million, which is our best estimate of the probable amount we will pay prior to appealing the courts ruling. It is also reasonably possible that we incur amounts in excess of the amounts accrued, which we estimate could be up to $22 million. The ultimate resolution of these contingencies may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded and our estimate of possible additional assessments. Segments We have two reportable segments: Leisure and Egencia. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, EAN, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong, trivago and Classic Vacations. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 8,664 $ 7,666 13 % Egencia 1,117 755 48 % Total gross bookings $ 9,781 $ 8,421 16 % Revenue Margin Leisure 10.7 % 10.0 % Egencia 7.9 % 7.0 % Total revenue margin 10.4 % 9.7 % The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in 2012, was primarily due to a 28% increase in hotel room nights and a 9% increase in air tickets sold. The increase in revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in 2012, was primarily due to a favorable mix shift to our higher margin products, including hotel and metasearch, partially offset by mix shifts within our hotel product. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Leisure $ 924 $ 763 21 % Egencia 88 53 68 % Total revenue $ 1,012 $ 816 24 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment. Acquisitions since the first quarter of 2012 added approximately 5.5% to year-over-year growth in total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2013. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 24% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. The increase was primarily due to a 28% increase in room nights stayed, partially offset by a 3% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to changes in our hotel product mix, of which mix shift to Asia-Pacific remains a significant component. The decline was partially offset by higher ADRs in other regions. Worldwide air revenue increased 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to a 9% increase in air tickets sold and a 5% increase in revenue per air ticket. The increase in air ticket sold was due to the VIA Travel acquisition. Revenue per air ticket increased due to variable incentives from suppliers. The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, increased by 29% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to an increase in fees related to our corporate travel business and hotel metasearch revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 733 $ 603 22 % Agency 233 182 28 % Advertising and media 46 31 47 % Total revenue $ 1,012 $ 816 24 % Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, due to the growth in agency hotel as well as our corporate travel business as a result of the VIA Travel acquisition. Advertising and media revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily due to our acquisition of trivago. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 122 $ 97 25 % Credit card processing 81 62 31 % Data center and other 48 41 18 % Total cost of revenue $ 251 $ 200 25 % % of revenue 24.8 % 24.5 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, the increase in cost of revenue expense was primarily driven by an increase of $25 million in customer operations expenses, of which higher headcount costs related to our VIA Travel acquisition as well as our global customer organizations accounted for approximately 80% of the total increase. In addition, higher net credit card processing costs, including fraud, related to our merchant bookings drove an additional $19 million increase. Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 381 $ 282 35 % Indirect costs 115 95 21 % Total selling and marketing $ 496 $ 377 32 % % of revenue 49.0 % 46.2 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our global supply organization, Egencia and various Leisure brands and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $119 million during the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, driven by $99 million of direct costs increases, of which online, offline marketing and mobile download spend at Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and trivago as well as higher affiliate marketing expenses at EAN accounted for approximately 80% of the total increase, as well as higher personnel expenses of $20 million driven by additional headcount from the trivago acquisition as well as our supply organization, Egencia and other Leisure brands. The trivago acquisition added approximately 4% to year-on-year selling and marketing expense growth for the first quarter of 2013. 29 Table of Contents Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 78 $ 61 28 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 36 23 58 % Other 24 25 (3 %) Total technology and content $ 138 $ 109 27 % % of revenue 13.7 % 13.3 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The increase of $29 million in technology and content expense during the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, was primarily due to increased personnel costs of $17 million for increased headcount to support key technology projects for Brand Expedia, our corporate technology function and supply organization as well as increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $13 million. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 60 $ 50 20 % Professional fees and other 32 29 14 % Total general and administrative $ 92 $ 79 18 % % of revenue 9.1 % 9.6 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. The $13 million increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, was due primarily to higher personnel expenses of $10 million, of which additional headcount drove approximately 60% of the total increase. Acquisitions added approximately 7% to year-over-year general and administrative expense growth for the first quarter of 2013. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 13 $ 3 267 % % of revenue 1.2 % 0.4 % The increase in amortization of intangible assets during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was due to amortization related to new business acquistions, including VIA Travel in April 2012 and trivago in March 2013. In addition, amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2012 included an approximate $2 million reduction related to a change in the estimated value of contingent purchase consideration for one of our prior acquisitions. 30 Table of Contents Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other was an expense of $62 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to a gain of less than $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, we recognized approximately $60 million for amounts expected to be paid in advance of litigation related to penalties and interest in connection with Hawaiis general excise tax litigation. Acquisition-related and other During the first quarter of 2013, we recorded approximately $57 million of stock-based compensation to acquisition-related and other expense in connection with the trivago acquisition as well as $10 million related to the upfront consideration paid to settle a portion of an employee compensation plan of trivago. For additional information, see Note 2 Acquisitions and Dispositions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Income (Loss) Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Operating income (loss) $ (106 ) $ 49 (317 %) % of revenue (10.4 %) 6.0 % Operating income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012, primarily increases in operating expenses in excess of revenue as described above, including the charges related to the Hawaii general excise tax litigation and acquisition-related and other expenses in the current period, partially offset by the growth in revenue. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 6 $ 6 3 % Interest expense (22 ) (21 ) 2 % Interest income and interest expense was consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in 2012. Other, Net Other, net changed to income of $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 from a loss of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to net foreign exchange rate gains of $3 million in the current period compared to net foreign exchange rate losses of $3 million in the prior period as well as $2 million in lower equity method operating losses in the current period. 31 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (12 ) $ 5 (327 %) Effective tax rate 10.0 % 19.5 % We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective rate. We record any changes to the estimated annual rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. Our effective tax rate benefit of 10.0% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate and the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to non-deductible stock-based compensation recorded in relation to the trivago acquisiton and non-deductible penalties included in the Hawaii pay-to-play assessments both of which lowered our effective tax rate benefit on our pre-tax losses for the current quarter. Our effective tax rate was 19.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, which was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States and accruals related to uncertain tax positions, partially offset by state income taxes. Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes On December 20, 2011, following the close of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, we completed the spin-off of TripAdvisor, Inc. (TripAdvisor), which consisted of the domestic and international operations previously associated with our TripAdvisor Media Group, to Expedia stockholders. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we incurred a loss from early extinguishment of our 8.5% senior notes due 2016 (the 8.5% Notes) resulting directly from the spin-off of TripAdvisor. The pre-tax loss was approximately $38 million (or $24 million net of tax), which included an early redemption premium of $33 million and the write-off of $5 million of unamortized debt issuance and discount costs. This loss was recorded within discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2012, as that was the period in which the 8.5% Notes were legally extinguished. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion at March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, including $317 million and $309 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries as well as $64 million and $57 million held in foreign subsidiaries related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our $1 billion revolving credit facility, which expires in November 2017. As of March 31, 2013, $978 million was available under the facility representing the total $1 billion facility less $22 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. The revolver provides capacity in excess of the outstanding balance of the 7.456% senior notes in the event of a partial or full redemption at the option of the holders in August 2013. The revolving credit facility bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points, and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 20 basis points as of March 31, 2013. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In April 2011, in response to our announcement of the TripAdvisor spin-off, Moodys affirmed its Ba1 rating and changed its outlook to from positive to stable, while S&P and Fitch placed the Companys ratings on Credit Watch with negative implications and Rating Watch Negative, respectively. In October 2011, Fitch affirmed its rating at BBB- and removed the rating from Rating Watch Negative, with an outlook of stable. In December 2011, S&P affirmed the Companys BBB- rating and removed the ratings from Credit Watch, with an outlook of stable. In October 2012, Fitch affirmed its rating at BBB- with an outlook of stable. In December 2012, both S&P and Moodys indicated the Companys planned investment in trivago would not impact its credit ratings. In April 2013, Moodys affirmed its Ba1 rating with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could 32 Table of Contents impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we continue to evaluate the use of the merchant model versus the agency model in each of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel or media, or if there are changes to the merchant model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payment to suppliers, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated, or even reversed. For example, we recently started introducing new technology to our hotel supply partners, which will enable closer integration of the agency hotel model with our core merchant offering in the United States and Europe. Depending on relative traveler and supplier and traveler adoption rates and customer payment preferences, among other things, the introduction of ETP could negatively impact near term working capital cash balances, cash flow over time, liquidity and the margin we earn per booking. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, as well as changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2013, we had a deficit in our working capital of $1.0 billion, compared to a deficit of $368 million as of December 31, 2012. The change in deficit was primarily due to financing and investing activities, including business acquisitions and share repurchases during the first quarter of 2013. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our capital expenditures for full year 2013 are expected to be above 2012 spending levels. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2013 2012 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 881 $ 848 $ 33 Investing activities (975 ) (98 ) (877 ) Financing activities (78 ) (175 ) 97 Net cash used in discontinued operations (8 ) 8 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (38 ) 16 (54 ) 33 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $33 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, cash used in investing activities increased by $877 million primarily due to our acquistion of controlling interest in trivago in March 2013 for $540 million, net of cash acquired, an increase in net purchases of investments of $300 million as well as an increase in capital expenditures of $36 million, which includes a 50% ownership interest in an aircraft for which we paid $23 million. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2013 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $118 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2012 authorization discussed below, and $18 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $46 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and the issuance of treasury stock. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $198 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2010 authorization, as well as a $12 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $32 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards. In 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. This authorization was exhausted in the second quarter of 2012. In 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized an additional repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 1.7 million and 5.8 million shares under these authorizations for a total cost of $111 million and $192 million, excluding transaction costs. As of March 31, 2013, 16.3 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under the 2012 authorization with no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2013, we repurchased an additional 0.3 million shares under the 2012 authorization for a total cost of $16 million, excluding transaction costs, representing an average repurchase price of $61.80 per share. In the first quarter of 2013 and 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 and $0.09 per share of outstanding common stock. In addition, on April 24, 2013, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share of outstanding common stock payable on June 19, 2013 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 30 , 2013. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the prior year period showed a net change of $54 million reflecting depreciation in currencies. In connection with various occupancy and other tax audits and assessments, certain jurisdictions may assert that tax payers are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances, which is referred to as pay to play. These jurisdictions may also attempt to require that we pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of similar tax ordinances. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we will continue to defend our position vigorously. As of March 31, 2013, we have accrued $170 million related to general excise tax assessments and related penalties and interest in Hawaii, of which we expect to pay $110 million on or about April 26, 2013. All amounts paid will be to the detriment of operating cash flows. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2012. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2013 or December 31, 2012. 34 Table of Contents Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see Note 9 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents Part I.