Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008(1)(2) 2007 2006 2005 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 2,955,426 $ 2,937,013 $ 2,665,332 $ 2,237,586 $ 2,119,455 Operating income (loss) 571,414 (2,428,953 ) 529,069 351,329 397,052 Net income (loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. 299,526 (2,517,763 ) 295,864 244,934 228,730 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 1.04 $ (8.80 ) $ 1.00 $ 0.72 $ 0.68 Diluted 1.03 (8.80 ) 0.94 0.70 0.65 Shares used in computing income (loss) per share: Basic 288,214 286,167 296,640 338,047 336,819 Diluted 292,141 286,167 314,233 352,181 349,530 December 31, 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working deficit $ (610,008 ) $ (367,454 ) $ (728,697 ) $ (224,770 ) $ (847,981 ) Total assets 5,937,156 5,894,249 8,295,422 8,264,317 7,756,892 Long-term debt 895,086 1,544,548 1,085,000 500,000 Noncontrolling interest(3) 67,045 63,910 70,004 65,260 54,962 Total stockholders equity(3) 2,749,726 2,380,964 4,880,016 5,966,046 5,788,725 (1) The year ended December 31, 2008 includes an approximately $3 billion impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets. (2) As we recorded a net loss for 2008, we have revised our diluted earnings per share amounts for that period to exclude the impacts of common stock equivalents, as they are antidilutive. Thus, basic and diluted earnings per share for 2008 are equal. (3) Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to new authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board on noncontrolling interests. Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source 38 Table of Contents of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on both the TripAdvisor Media Network and on our transaction-based websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and suppliers of travel products and services, has been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. In addition, beginning in late 2008, global economic and financial market conditions worsened markedly, creating uncertainty for travelers and suppliers. This macroeconomic downturn has pressured discretionary spending on travel and advertising, with initial weakness in the United States and the United Kingdom markets increasing and spreading to all geographies. Although recent macroeconomic trends have been generally stable to slightly improving, unemployment remains at historically high levels and consumer spending remains pressured. As such, our near-term visibility remains limited. In late April 2009, the World Health Organization acknowledged an outbreak of swine influenza (H1N1), which was categorized as a pandemic in June 2009, with reported cases in Mexico and eight other countries. In response, travel advisories were issued by several countries against non-essential travel, primarily to Mexico. Expedia observed an increase in cancellation activity from both customers traveling to higher risk destinations and customers in APAC regions, which have a heightened sensitivity to virus risk. However, the pandemic does not seem to have intensified, and any related cancellation activity has abated. Airline Sector The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. U.S. airlines responded to chronic overcapacity, financial losses and extreme volatility in oil prices by aggressively reducing their cost structures and seating capacities. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Most carriers aggressively reduced capacities in 2008 and 2009, and at this time, plans for re-visiting capacity expansion in 2010 appear to be relatively limited. In 2008, many carriers raised their per seat yields by increasing fares, assessing fuel surcharges and increasing the use of a la carte pricing for such items as baggage, food and beverage and preferred seating. To a large degree, the use of ancillary fees to supplement revenues have remained, and in some cases been expanded. However, as overall travel demand waned at the end of 2008 and into 2009, carriers began lowering ticket prices in order to attract more leisure travelers. Expedia generally favors a low fare environment, as low fares tend to encourage leisure travel, leave more of the travel budget for hotel spend and because our air revenues are tied principally to ticket volumes, not prices. Hence, the 2009 fare environment was a favorable one for Expedia, as airfares on tickets sold by Expedia decreased 15% in 2009. More recently, however, given the stabilization in the macro economy and aggressive capacity reductions, carriers have been cutting fares less aggressively. In the fourth quarter of 2009, fares were down just 4%, and our expectations are for fares to begin growing again in 2010. In addition to capacity and pricing actions, carriers have responded to industry conditions by aggressively reducing costs in every aspect of their operations, including distribution costs. Prior to 2008, airlines lowered (and in some cases, eliminated) travel agent commissions and overrides, and increased direct distribution through their proprietary websites. Carriers also reduced payments to GDS intermediaries, which have historically passed on a portion of these payments to large travel agents, including Expedia. In 2009, Expedia.com and other major online travel agencies began offering air tickets to consumers without an associated online booking fee, matching the airline supplier sites, which also do not charge online booking fees. Expedia has broadened this fee elimination to many of its international websites, as well as removed most 39 Table of Contents change/cancel fees in excess of those charged by travel suppliers. These fee actions, combined with the above reductions in distribution costs, have combined to reduce Expedias global revenue per ticket by over 30% in the past three years. As a result of the above industry dynamics and the strength of our other product lines, in 2009 air revenue constituted just 12% of our global revenues. We may encounter additional pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew in 2010 and beyond, and as air carriers and GDSs re-negotiate their long-term agreements in 2011. In addition to the above challenges, larger carriers participating in the Expedia marketplace have generally reduced their share of total air seat capacity, while leading low-cost carriers such as Southwest in the United States have increased their relative capacities, but have generally chosen not to participate in the Expedia marketplace. This trend has negatively impacted our ability to obtain supply in our air business, and increased the relative attractiveness of other online and offline sales channels. Hotel Sector In 2008, the hotel sector witnessed supply growth and slowing demand, resulting in declining occupancy rates. ADR growth, which had been robust in 2006 and 2007, slowed considerably throughout 2008, and by the end of the year had stopped growing entirely. Some key leisure travel markets for Expedia, such as Las Vegas and Hawaii, have experienced dramatic year-on-year declines in ADRs. In 2009, we experienced a 15% decline in global ADRs due primarily to weak travel demand and continued supply expansion. While lower occupancies have historically increased the availability of discounted hotel rooms, and a lower rate of ADR growth can positively impact underlying room night growth, lower ADRs also decrease our revenue per room night as our remuneration varies proportionally with the room price. Revenue per room night in 2009 declined 17% primarily due to the downward movement in ADRs as well as adverse movements in foreign exchange rates and lower fees. In 2009, the industry declines in occupancies and ADRs were more severe than those experienced after the 9/11 terror events. And although ADRs appear to have stabilized somewhat throughout 2009, they are still expected to be down in the low to mid single digits for at least the first half of 2010. These trends, combined with softer demand in a weakening economy and lower air capacity into our core leisure travel destinations, create a challenging backdrop for our hotel business, which generates nearly two-thirds of our worldwide revenue and an even greater percentage of our profitability. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2009 approximately 56% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 32% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to lag behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. As a result, according to PhoCusWright, by 2009 travel supplier sites accounted for 61% of total online travel spend in the United States. More recently, due to booking fee reductions and eliminations, online agents appear to be regaining share of overall online travel spend. Our visibility on whether these share gains continue once we pass the anniversary of the fee actions in late 2010 is limited. Differentiation among the various website offerings has narrowed dramatically in the past several years, and the travel landscape has grown extremely competitive, with the need for competitors to generally differentiate their offerings on features other than price. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some 40 Table of Contents cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies; although in most cases they are not providing actual travel booking services. Some of these competitors have raised significant amounts of capital and have begun to aggressively market their service offerings. In early 2009, TripAdvisor.com launched a competitive metasearch travel offering featuring a Fee Estimator enabling customers to see the price of their flight including various airline fees such as baggage charges. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe, and Expedia has only recently introduced a competitive offering. While agency hotel is an important component of our European strategy, we expect it will take time to gain traction with incremental hotel suppliers, and for Expedia to drive meaningful demand to those hotels. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. In 2009, we experienced a reversal of these trends due to several factors including the softer macro environment, lower ad rates and a pullback in spend by some of our online competitors impacted by lower fee revenues, but there can be no assurance that reversal will continue in the future. Strategy We play a fundamental role in facilitating travel, whether for leisure, unmanaged business or managed business travelers. We are committed to providing travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers the world over with the best set of resources to serve their travel needs by leveraging Expedias critical assets our brand portfolio, technology and content innovation, global reach and breadth of product offering. In addition, we intelligently utilize our growing base of knowledge about destinations, activities, suppliers and travelers and our central position in the travel value chain to more effectively merchandise our travel offerings. A discussion of the critical assets that we leverage in achieving our business strategy follows: Portfolio of Travel Brands. We seek to appeal to the broadest possible range of travelers, suppliers and advertisers through our collection of industry-leading brands. We target several different demographics, from the value-conscious traveler through our Hotwire brand to luxury travelers seeking a high-touch, customized vacation package through our Classic Vacations brand. We believe our flagship Expedia brand appeals to the broadest range of travelers, with our extensive product offering ranging from single item bookings of discounted product to dynamic bundling of higher-end travel packages. Our hotels.com site and its international versions target travelers with premium hotel content such as 360 degree tours and hotel reviews. In the United States, hotels.com generally appeals to travelers with shorter booking windows who prefer to drive to their destinations, and who make a significant portion of their travel bookings over the telephone. Through Egencia, we make travel products and services available on a managed basis to corporate travelers in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Further, our TripAdvisor Media Network allows us to reach a broad range of travelers with travel opinions and user-generated content. We believe our appeal to suppliers and advertisers is further enhanced by our geographic breadth and range of business models, allowing them to offer their products and services to the industrys broadest range of travelers using our various agency, merchant and advertising business models. We intend to continue supporting and investing in our brand portfolio, geographic footprint and business models for the benefit of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers. Technology and Content Innovation. Expedia has an established tradition of technology innovation, from Expedia.coms inception as a division of Microsoft to our introduction of more recent innovations such as Expedias introduction of its Expedia Easy Manage program, offering smaller properties in secondary and 41 Table of Contents tertiary markets in Europe and Asia Pacific through an agency model hotel program, Media Solutions introduction of rich media display ads called StorePoint Expandables, TripAdvisors launch of its Family Vacation Critic, which offers reviews of kid-friendly and parent-tested hotels, resorts, attractions and destinations to help parents select the best family vacation, and FlipKeys launch of self-service listings for vacation property owners to merchandise their offerings. We intend to continue innovating on behalf of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers with particular focus on improving the traveler experience, supplier integration and presentation, platform improvements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Global Reach. Our Expedia, hotels.com and TripAdvisor Media Network brands operate both in North America and internationally. We also offer Chinese travelers an array of products and services through our majority ownership in eLong and through our TripAdvisor brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn, and we offer hotels to European-based travelers through our wholly-owned subsidiary Venere, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2008. In 2009, approximately 34% of our worldwide gross bookings and 37% of worldwide revenue were international. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific region using direct points of sale as well as strategic partnerships. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a significant opportunity for Expedia, and we believe we offer a compelling technology solution to businesses seeking to optimize travel costs and improve their employees travel experiences. We intend to continue investing in and expanding the geographic footprint and technology infrastructure of Egencia. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. As an example, our traveler review feature whereby our travelers have created millions of qualified reviews of hotel properties is able to accumulate a larger base of reviews due to the higher base of online traffic that frequents our various websites. In addition, our increasing scale enhances our websites appeal to travel and non-travel advertisers. We intend to continue investing in and growing our international points of sale. We anticipate launching points of sale in additional countries where we find large travel markets and rapid growth of online commerce. Future launches may occur under any of our brands, or through acquisition of third party brands, as in the case of eLong, Venere, Kuxun and Egencia. Breadth of Product Offering. We offer a comprehensive array of innovative travel products and services to our travelers. We plan to continue improving and growing these offerings, as well as expand them to our worldwide points of sale over time. Travelers can interact with us how and when they prefer, including via our 24/7 1-800 telesales service, which is an integral part of the Companys appeal to travelers. Over 60% of our revenue comes from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with less than 15% of our worldwide revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We facilitate travel products and services either as stand-alone products or as part of package transactions. We have emphasized growing our merchant hotel and packages businesses as these result in higher revenue per transaction; however, we are working to grow our global agency hotel business through our Venere brand as well as our Expedia and hotel.com brands. We also seek to continue diversifying our revenue mix beyond core air and hotel products to car rental, destination services, cruise and other product offerings. We have been working toward and will continue to work toward increasing the mix of advertising and media revenue from both the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network, as well as increasing advertising revenue from our worldwide websites such as Expedia.com and hotels.com, which have historically been focused on transaction revenue. In 2009, advertising and media revenue accounted for approximately 11% of worldwide revenue. 42 Table of Contents Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in the merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. As a result, revenue is typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The macroeconomic downturn in the latter part of 2008 also affected our general revenue seasonality trends in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, the continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumption that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and/or Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally recognize those amounts as revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience and contract terms. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Marketing Promotions We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage booking of travel products and services, which include inducement offers. Inducement offers include discounts granted at the time of a current purchase to be applied against a future qualifying purchase. We treat inducement offers as a reduction to revenue based on estimated future redemption rates. We allocate the discount amount between the current purchase and the potential future purchase based on our expected relative value of the transactions. We estimate our redemption rates using our historical experience for similar inducement offers, and the amounts we record as a reduction to revenue on current purchases could vary significantly based on the redemption estimates used. 43 Table of Contents Loyalty Program Accruals We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our hotels.com welcomerewards program. Welcomerewards offers travelers one free night at any hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we record a liability for the estimated future cost of redemptions. We determine the future redemption obligation based on judgment factors including: (i) the estimated cost of travel products to be redeemed, and (ii) an estimated redemption rate based on the overall accumulation and usage of points towards free travel products, which is determined through current and historical trends as well as statistical modeling techniques. The actual future cost and rate of redemptions could differ materially from our estimates. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. In step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets. We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an 44 Table of Contents asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. For additional information about our goodwill and intangible asset impairments recorded in 2008, see Note 5 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. We record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. The determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. For those positions for which we conclude it is more likely than not it will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. The difference between the amount recognized and the total tax position is recorded as a liability. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies. We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy Tax. Some states and localities impose a transient occupancy or accommodation tax on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations. Generally, hotels charge taxes based on the room rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We do not collect or remit occupancy taxes, nor do we pay occupancy taxes to the hotel operator on the portion of the customer 45 Table of Contents payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to collect and remit such occupancy taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve this issue. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit occupancy tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 7,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the internet and e-commerce. It is possible that some jurisdictions may introduce new legislation regarding the imposition of occupancy taxes on businesses that arrange the booking of hotel accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in occupancy tax related litigation which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Stock-Based Compensation In the first quarter of 2009, we awarded stock options as our primary form of employee stock-based compensation. We measure the value of stock option awards on the date of grant at fair value using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We amortize the fair value, net of estimated forfeitures, over the remaining term on a straight-line basis. The Black-Scholes model requires various highly judgmental assumptions including volatility and expected option term. If any of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates for stock-based awards, we periodically conduct an assessment of the actual number of equity awards that have been forfeited to date as well as those expected to be forfeited in the future. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including the type of award, the employee class and historical experience. The estimate of stock awards that will ultimately be forfeited requires significant judgment and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period such estimates are revised. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Segments Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, we have three reportable segments: Leisure, the TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia. The change from two reportable segments, North America and Europe, was a result of the reorganization of our business around our global brands. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. 46 Table of Contents Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our TripAdvisor Media Network segment provides advertising services to travel suppliers on its websites, which aggregate traveler opinions and unbiased travel articles about cities, hotels, restaurants and activities in a variety of destinations through tripadvisor.com and its localized international versions as well as through its various travel media content properties within the TripAdvisor Media Network. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Reclassifications During the first quarter of 2009, our development and information technology teams were effectively combined to better support our global brands. As a result of our reorganization, in addition to costs to develop and maintain our website and internal use applications, technology and content expense now also includes the majority of information technology costs such as costs to support and operate our network and back-office applications (including related data center costs), system monitoring and network security, and other technology leadership and support functions. The most significant reclassification of costs occurred between general and administrative expense and technology and content expense as, historically, a significant portion of the information technology costs were within general and administrative expense. Technology costs to operate our live site and call center applications in production remained in cost of revenue. For a detail of the amounts reclassified for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating Expedia. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 20,428 $ 19,749 $ 18,324 3 % 8 % TripAdvisor Media Network(1) N/A N/A Egencia 1,383 1,520 1,308 (9 )% 16 % Total gross bookings $ 21,811 $ 21,269 $ 19,632 3 % 8 % Revenue Margin Leisure 12.9 % 13.3 % 13.4 % TripAdvisor Media Network(1) N/A N/A N/A Egencia 7.8 % 7.2 % 7.0 % Total revenue margin(1) 13.6 % 13.8 % 13.6 % 47 Table of Contents (1) The TripAdvisor Media Network, which is comprised of media businesses that differ from our transaction-based websites and our Egencia business, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from the TripAdvisor Media Network is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to an 18% growth in transactions, substantially offset by lower prices for airline tickets and hotel room nights. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to increases in transaction volumes and travel product prices. The decrease in revenue margin in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to the reduction in traveler fees, the impact of our loyalty programs and a greater mix of lower margin hotels, partially offset by lower air ticket prices and a reduction in the mix of lower margin air product. The increase in revenue margin in 2008 as compared to 2007 was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenue. Results of Operations Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Leisure $ 2,635 $ 2,626 $ 2,449 0 % 7 % TripAdvisor Media Network (Third-party revenue) 212 201 125 6 % 60 % Egencia 108 110 91 (1 )% 20 % Total revenue $ 2,955 $ 2,937 $ 2,665 1 % 10 % In 2009, the increase in revenue was primarily due to increases within our Leisure segment in hotel, car and advertising and media revenue and an increase within our TripAdvisor Media Segment in advertising and media revenue. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in air revenue. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 2% in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a 23% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages and room nights booked through Venere (which we acquired in September 2008), partially offset by a 17% decline in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night declined largely due to a 15% decrease in ADRs, including a reduction in traveler fees. Excluding room nights stayed through Venere, room nights grew 20% for the year. Worldwide air revenue decreased 13% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a 24% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 15% increase in ticket volumes. Expedia.com eliminated consumer booking fees on online air tickets in March 2009, with certain other points of sale following at various dates into the third quarter of 2009, which primarily drove the decline in revenue per ticket. This elimination of fees on Expedia.com and other points of sale, combined with lower average ticket prices, contributed to the increase in our air ticketing volumes. Worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services and agency cruise, increased by 5% in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue and car rental revenue. In 2008, the increase in revenue was primarily due to increases in worldwide hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 6% in 2008 compared to 2007. The increase was primarily due to a 13% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, partially offset 48 Table of Contents by a 6% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased due to changes in foreign exchange rates and a 2% decrease in worldwide ADRs. Worldwide air revenue increased 2% in 2008 compared to 2007 due to a 2% increase in revenue per air ticket. Tickets sold were flat for the year as an 8% growth in the first half of the year was offset by an 8% decline in the second half of the year due to lower passenger volumes as a result of carrier capacity cuts and softer consumer demand. Our remaining worldwide revenue other than hotel and air revenue discussed above increased by 29% in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increases in our advertising and media revenue and car rental revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 2,005 $ 2,004 $ 1,915 0 % 5 % Agency 639 651 567 (2 )% 15 % Advertising and media 311 282 183 10 % 55 % Total revenue $ 2,955 $ 2,937 $ 2,665 1 % 10 % Our merchant revenue for 2009 compared to 2008 was relatively flat as increases in car revenue were offset by decreases in air revenue. The increase in merchant revenue for 2008 compared to 2007 was driven by an increase in hotel revenue primarily due to higher room nights stayed, partially offset by lower ADRs. Agency revenue decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 due to a decrease in air revenue primarily resulting from our Expedia.com U.S. booking fee removal and decreased agency package revenue, partially offset by higher hotel revenue related to Venere and higher car revenue. Agency revenue increased for 2008 compared to 2007 due to increases in air, hotel and car revenue. Advertising and media revenue increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a 21% increase in advertising revenue at our Leisure transaction-based websites as well as a 6% increase at TripAdvisor Media Network. Advertising and media revenue increased in 2008 compared to 2007 primarily due to increased revenue at TripAdvisor Media Network. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 293 $ 295 $ 267 (1 )% 11 % Credit card processing 178 200 189 (11 )% 6 % Data center and other 136 144 109 (5 )% 31 % Total cost of revenue $ 607 $ 639 $ 565 (5 )% 13 % % of revenue 20.5 % 21.7 % 21.2 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, certain promotions, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. In 2009, the primary drivers of the decrease in cost of revenue expense were a decrease in credit card processing costs as a result of our technology investments, lower promotions expense and air fulfillment efficiencies primarily resulting from bringing some of our air ticket fulfillment operations in-house. We expect cost of revenue to decrease as a percentage of revenue in 2010. 49 Table of Contents In 2008, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were an increase in customer operation costs primarily due to an increase in transaction volumes during 2008 versus 2007, an increase of credit card processing fees due to the increase in merchant bookings and an increase in promotions expense. Selling and Marketing Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 747 $ 826 $ 762 (10 )% 8 % Indirect costs 280 279 233 0 % 20 % Total selling and marketing $ 1,027 $ 1,105 $ 995 (7 )% 11 % % of revenue 34.8 % 37.6 % 37.3 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our Partner Services Group (PSG), the TripAdvisor Media Network, Egencia and Expedia Local Expert and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $78 million in 2009 compared to 2008 due to lower offline brand spending for our global websites, lower online spend as well as lower private label and affiliate expenses associated with the lower overall travel demand environment. Offline and online advertising spend decreased primarily as a result of a lower cost advertising environment, our investments in search engine optimization and marketing, and costs for other customer value enhancements that stimulate demand but do not impact selling and marketing expense such as fee reductions and loyalty programs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in direct costs for Venere. We expect selling and marketing expense to increase as a percentage of revenue in 2010 in part due to approximately $20 million in relocation and other costs related to the opening of a global headquarters for our lodging supply group. In 2008, selling and marketing expense increased $110 million primarily due to a $64 million increase in direct costs resulting from an increase in online marketing primarily driven by increase spend related to the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network as well as increased expenses at our international points of sale, offset slight by a decrease in other direct marketing. Indirect costs included in selling and marketing expense increased $46 million primarily due to increased headcount in the TripAdvisor Media Network, PSG, Egencia and European points of sale. Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 167 $ 156 $ 144 7 % 9 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 68 48 35 42 % 37 % Other 85 84 67 2 % 24 % Total technology and content $ 320 $ 288 $ 246 11 % 17 % % of revenue 10.8 % 9.8 % 9.2 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. 50 Table of Contents The year-over-year increase of $32 million in technology and content expense in 2009 was primarily due to increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets as well as increased incentive compensation expense. We expect technology and content expense to decrease as a percentage of revenue in 2010. The year-over-year increase of $42 million in 2008 was primarily due to increased personnel-related expenses primarily in our higher growth businesses, including the TripAdvisor Media Network, as well as an increase in the amortization of software development costs. General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 158 $ 154 $ 138 3 % 11 % Professional fees 74 58 58 26 % 0 % Other 58 57 56 3 % 1 % Total general and administrative $ 290 $ 269 $ 252 8 % 6 % % of revenue 9.8 % 9.1 % 9.5 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. In 2009, the increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase in legal fees, settlements and other professional fees of $16 million, including costs related to the consumer class action lawsuit and occupancy tax matters, as well as higher personnel costs resulting from increased incentive compensation expense. We expect general and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of revenue in 2010. In 2008, the increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase in personnel and overhead costs of $16 million. Personnel and overhead costs increased due to increased headcount related to the continued expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network and European points of sale, including through acquisitions such as Venere, as well as higher incentive compensation at certain points of sale. Amortization of Intangible Assets Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 38 $ 69 $ 78 (46 )% (10 )% % of revenue 1.3 % 2.4 % 2.9 % In 2009 and 2008, the decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain technology and supplier relationship intangible assets, partially offset by amortization related to new business acquisitions. In 2009, the completion of amortization related to certain distribution agreements also contributed to the decrease. For additional information about our acquisitions, see Note 3 Acquisitions and Other Investments in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Tax Assessments and Legal Reserves During 2009, we recognized $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the San Francisco occupancy tax proceedings and an accrual of $19 million for the estimated settlement cost of the Expedia consumer class action lawsuit. For additional information, see Note 14 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 51 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges During 2009, in conjunction with the reorganization of our business around our global brands, and the resulting centralization of locations and brand management, marketing and administrative personnel as well as certain customer operations centers, we recognized $34 million in restructuring charges. These charges were primarily related to employee severance and related benefits. Restructuring charges related to the brand reorganization were substantially completed by the end of 2009. For additional information, see Note 12 Restructuring Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible and Other Long-lived Assets In 2008, we recorded impairments of approximately $3 billion of long-term assets, which consisted of $2.8 billion of goodwill, $223 million of intangible assets and $11 million related to capitalized software. Impaired intangible assets consisted of certain of our indefinite-lived trade names. For additional information about our impairments, see Note 5 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We recorded no such impairments in 2009. Operating Income (Loss) Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 571 $ (2,429 ) $ 529 N/A N/A % of revenue 19.3 % (82.7 )% 19.9 % In 2009, the change to operating income was due to the prior year impairment of long-term assets of approximately $3 billion. In addition, selling and marketing expense and cost of revenue decreased compared to the increase in revenue, partially offset by the San Francisco occupancy tax assessments, restructuring charges and class action settlement legal reserve as well as growth in technology and content and general and administrative expenses at rates in excess of revenue growth. In 2008, the recording of a significant operating loss and the resulting year-over-year decline was due to the impairment of long-term assets of approximately $3 billion. Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 6 $ 30 $ 39 (80 )% (23 )% Interest expense (84 ) (72 ) (53 ) 17 % 36 % Interest income decreased in 2009 and 2008 primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense increased in 2009 and 2008 primarily resulting from interest on the $400 million senior unsecured notes issued in June 2008. The increase in 2009 was partially offset by lower interest expense related to our revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our long-term indebtedness totaled $895 million, $1.545 billion and $1.085 billion. 52 Table of Contents Other, net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate losses, net $ (30 ) $ (47 ) $ (22 ) (37 )% 114 % Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment (5 ) N/A N/A Gain (loss) on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-Off 5 (6 ) (101 )% (180 )% Federal excise tax refunds 12 N/A (100 )% Other (2 ) (3 ) (84 )% (43 )% Total other, net $ (35 ) $ (44 ) $ (19 ) (20 )% 137 % In 2008, in connection with the closing of an acquisition and the related holding of euros to economically hedge the purchase price, we recognized a net loss of $21 million, included in foreign exchange rate losses, net. In 2007, we recognized a $12 million gain related to federal excise tax refunds from the Internal Revenue Service. Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 154 $ 6 $ 203 N/A (97 )% Effective tax rate 33.7 % (0.2 )% 40.9 % In 2009, our effective tax rate was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to a fourth quarter deduction relating to the closure of a foreign subsidiary, partially offset by state income taxes. The change in the 2009 effective rate compared to the 2008 rate was primarily due to the impairment of goodwill in 2008, of which a substantial portion was not deductible for income tax purposes. Absent the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, our 2008 effective tax rate would have been 41.5%, and our 2009 effective rate was lower than this rate primarily due to the deduction relating to the closure of a foreign subsidiary and, to a lesser extent, lower accruals related to uncertain tax positions. We expect our effective tax rate to benefit in 2010 and beyond based on changes in our business structure combined with the relative growth in our international business. In 2008, our effective tax rate differed from the 35% statutory rate and the 2007 effective rate due to the impairment of goodwill, of which a substantial portion was not deductible for income tax purposes. Absent the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, our 2008 effective tax rate would have been 41.5%, which was higher than the 35% statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions and higher than our 2007 rate primarily due to higher accruals related to uncertain tax positions. In 2007, our effective tax rate was higher than the 35% statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes, taxes related to our foreign operations and non-deductible losses related to our derivative liabilities. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $688 million and $758 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, including $148 million and $145 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries; and our revolving credit facility. 53 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we maintained a $1 billion revolving credit facility of which $958 million was available. This represents the total $1 billion facility less $42 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit (LOC). During 2009, we amended our credit facility to replace our tangible net worth covenant with a minimum interest coverage covenant, among other changes. As part of this amendment, our leverage ratio was tightened, pricing on our borrowings increased by 200 basis points and we paid approximately $6 million in fees. Outstanding credit facility borrowings bore interest reflecting our financial leverage. Based on our December 31, 2009 financial statements, the interest rate would equate to a base rate plus 262.5 basis points. At our discretion, we could choose a base rate equal to (1) the greater of the Prime rate or the Federal Funds Rate plus 50 basis points or LIBOR plus 100 basis points or (2) various durations of LIBOR. In February 2010, we reached agreement on a new $750 million, three-year revolving credit facility, replacing our prior credit facility. Pricing is based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 300 basis points, and undrawn amounts bearing interest at 50 basis points. Financial covenants remain the same under the new facility. We incurred approximately $8 million in fees, which will be amortized over the life of the credit facility. We currently have no borrowings outstanding under the facility. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In October 2009, our long-term ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors were raised to Ba1 and BBB-, respectively. Both agencies issued a stable ratings outlook at that time. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. On February 10, 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock, the first dividend in our history. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. Based on our current shares outstanding, we estimate this quarterly dividend payment will be approximately $20 million. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital will positively impact operating cash flows. If this business model declines relative to our other businesses, or if there are changes to the model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payments to suppliers, our working capital benefits could be reduced. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates or changes to the model or booking patterns as discussed above may affect working capital, which might counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of December 31, 2009, we had a deficit in our working capital of $610 million, compared to a deficit of $367 million as of December 31, 2008 primarily due to the repayment of $650 million of borrowings under our credit facility and capital expenditures, partially offset by cash generated from operations during 2009. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases or expenditures in support of our business strategy. In the event we have acquisitions or share repurchases, this may reduce our cash balance and/or increase our debt. 54 Table of Contents Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs 2008 2008 vs 2007 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 676 $ 521 $ 712 $ 155 $ (191 ) Investing activities (48 ) (860 ) (180 ) 812 (680 ) Financing activities (660 ) 465 (790 ) (1,125 ) 1,255 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9 (78 ) 22 87 (100 ) In 2009, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $155 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes and growth in operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization, partially offset by an increase in income tax and interest payments as well as occupancy tax assessments. In 2008, net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $191 million primarily due to a decrease in changes in operating assets and liabilities, including an increase in tax payments and faster invoice and payment processing for our hotel suppliers. In connection with various occupancy tax audits and assessments, certain jurisdictions may assert that taxpayers are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances, which is referred to as pay-to-play. These jurisdictions may also attempt to require that we pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of similar tax ordinances. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we will continue to defend our position vigorously. During 2009, we paid $48 million related to tax assessments in San Francisco. In 2009, cash used in investing activities represented a positive change of $812 million in cash flows primarily due to a $493 million decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, cash provided by the net maturities of short-term investments of $47 million in 2009 compared to $93 million in purchases in 2008 and a decrease in capital expenditures of $68 million. In 2008, cash used in investing activities increased by $680 million primarily due to a $479 million increase in cash paid for acquisitions, including $93 million as a contingent payment for the financial performance of a company we acquired during 2007, as well as the purchase of short-term investments of $93 million by eLong and an increase in capital expenditures of $73 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2009 primarily included the repayment of $650 million of borrowings under the credit facility. Cash provided by financing activities in 2008 primarily included $457 million of net borrowings of debt. Cash used in financing activities in 2007 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares in two tender offers where we acquired 55 million shares of our common stock for a total cost of $1.385 billion plus fees and expenses relating to the tender offers. In addition, we paid withholding taxes for stock option exercises of $121 million on behalf of our Chairman and Senior Executive in exchange for surrendering a portion of his vested shares which were concurrently cancelled. These were offset in part by $585 million in net borrowings on the revolving credit facility, $55 million in proceeds from stock option exercises and $96 million in excess tax benefits on equity awards, of which approximately $92 million related to the excess tax benefit associated with the stock options exercised by our Chairman and Senior Executive. In June 2008, we privately placed $400 million of 8.5% senior unsecured notes due in July 2016 (the 8.5% Notes). The 8.5% Notes were issued at 98.572% of par resulting in a discount, which is being amortized over their life. Interest is payable semi-annually in January and July of each year, beginning January 1, 2009. We used the proceeds, net of the discount and issuance costs, of $392 million to repay the then outstanding borrowings under our credit facility of $330 million with the remaining cash was used for general corporate purposes. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2009 showed a net increase of $87 million primarily due to the relative appreciation in foreign currencies during 2009 compared to their depreciation in 2008. 55 Table of Contents The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2008 showed a net decrease of $100 million primarily due to a sharp depreciation in foreign currencies during the second half of 2008 compared with appreciating foreign currencies throughout 2007, and included a $21 million loss related to euro cash holdings during the third quarter of 2008 to economically hedge the purchase price of an acquisition. We currently have authorization, for which there is no fixed termination date, from our Board of Directors to repurchase up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock; no such repurchases have been made under this authorization. The number of shares we may make under this authorization is subject to certain of our debt covenants. We also have a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which Expedia, Inc. may offer from time to time debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock or warrants. The shelf registration statement expires on October 15, 2010. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. Our liquidity has not been materially impacted by the credit market disruptions, which were more pronounced in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first half of 2009. There can be no assurance, however, that future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009: By Period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Long-term debt(1) $ 1,474 $ 71 $ 143 $ 143 $ 1,117 Operating leases(2) 231 38 69 55 69 Purchase obligations(3) 58 32 26 Guarantees(4) 65 65 Letters of credit(4) 42 42 Total(5) $ 1,870 $ 248 $ 238 $ 198 $ 1,186 (1) Our 8.5% Notes and 7.456% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2016 and 2018, respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. In the above table, we have reflected the 7.456% Notes based on the maturity date in 2018; however such Notes are repayable in whole or in part on August 15, 2013 at the option of the holders. (2) The operating leases are for office space and related office equipment. We account for these leases on a monthly basis. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2018. (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. The outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authority of one country to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within that country. This country holds all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. 56 Table of Contents (5) Excludes $190 million of unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2009. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see Note 15 Related Party Transactions in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Part II.