Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008(1) 2007 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 3,348,109 $ 2,955,426 $ 2,937,013 $ 2,665,332 $ 2,237,586 Operating income (loss) 731,915 571,414 (2,428,953 ) 529,069 351,329 Net income (loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. 421,500 299,526 (2,517,763 ) 295,864 244,934 Net income (loss) per share attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 1.49 $ 1.04 $ (8.80 ) $ 1.00 $ 0.72 Diluted 1.46 1.03 (8.80 ) 0.94 0.70 Shares used in computing income (loss) per share: Basic 282,465 288,214 286,167 296,640 338,047 Diluted 288,028 292,141 286,167 314,233 352,181 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.28 $ $ $ $ December 31, 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working deficit $ (187,793 ) $ (610,008 ) $ (367,454 ) $ (728,697 ) $ (224,770 ) Total assets 6,650,994 5,937,156 5,894,249 8,295,422 8,264,317 Long-term debt 1,644,894 895,086 1,544,548 1,085,000 500,000 Noncontrolling interest 64,159 67,045 63,910 70,004 65,260 Total stockholders equity 2,736,703 2,749,726 2,380,964 4,880,016 5,966,046 (1) The year ended December 31, 2008 includes an approximately $3 billion impairment charge related to goodwill, intangible and other long-lived assets. Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on both the TripAdvisor Media Network and on our transaction-based websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview. 40 Table of Contents All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. In 2009, during the global recession, Expedia was able to grow volumes robustly by exposing excellent travel deals to our customers. However, we eliminated or reduced a wide variety of customer fees, airfare and hotel room prices were down substantially and advertising rates were soft, which led to revenue growth in 2009 of only 1%. During 2010, we experienced an improving travel environment with air carriers flying at very high load factors and hoteliers generally seeing stronger occupancies and rising room rates. As such, our 2010 year-over-year unit growth moderated compared to 2009, but our unit economics (e.g. revenue per ticket) improved and our revenue growth accelerated to 13%. We believe the combination of high unemployment rates, pressure on consumer spending, European volcanic activity and related travel disruptions, foreign currency fluctuations, overall uncertainty about the European economy, actual and threatened labor strikes and rising airfares caused some ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the travel market during 2010. Global economic conditions remain uncertain and, as such, our near-term visibility remains limited. Airline Sector The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. In recent years, there has been increased air carrier consolidation, generally resulting in lower overall capacity and higher fares. In addition, air carriers have made significant efforts to keep seat capacity relatively low in order to ensure that demand for seats remained high and flights as full as possible. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Ticket prices on Expedia sites declined by 15% year-over-year in 2009 but grew 10% in 2010. Although air capacity discipline appears to generally remain in place, there are early signs that carriers are beginning to add some capacity as we move into 2011. In the spring of 2009, Expedia.com and other major online travel agencies began offering air tickets to consumers without an associated online booking fee, matching the airline supplier sites. These actions led to robust ticket growth but severe pressure on our revenue per ticket. After we passed the anniversary of these fee cuts, our ticket volume growth moderated, but our revenue per ticket began to grow, leading to an improved revenue performance for our air product. We believe that the economics for our air business are largely stable in the near term, though we could encounter pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew, and as air carriers and GDSs re-negotiate their long-term agreements in 2011. For example, in late 2010, American Airlines began to pursue a new distribution strategy requiring online travel agents to agree to connect directly to American Airlines systems, rather than through GDSs, and our contract with American Airlines expired without renewal resulting in their fares being removed from our leisure travel sites. Hotel Sector During the recession, lodging companies generally saw significantly reduced occupancies and ADRs. In that environment, suppliers increasingly turned to Expedia to help fill more rooms while travelers increasingly looked to Expedia to find excellent travel deals. This combination led to robust room night growth and a substantial reduction in our revenue per room night (since our remuneration in our hotel business varies proportionally with the room price). In 2010, occupancy rates and ADRs began to improve for the lodging suppliers in an improving overall travel environment. This led to moderating, though still healthy, room night growth and an improving ADR environment. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites declined by 15% year-over-year for 2009, but grew 1% in 2010. 41 Table of Contents Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2010, approximately 54% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 37% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to be around 20%, lagging behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. As a result, according to PhoCusWright, by 2010 travel supplier sites accounted for 59% of total online travel spend in the United States. More recently, due to booking fee reductions and eliminations, online agents appear to have regained some share of overall online travel spend. Our visibility on whether these share gains continue in 2011 and beyond is limited. Differentiation among the various website offerings has narrowed dramatically in the past several years, and the travel landscape has grown extremely competitive, with the need for competitors to generally differentiate their offerings on features other than price. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies; although in most cases they are not providing actual travel booking services. Some of these competitors have raised significant amounts of capital and have begun to aggressively market their service offerings. In addition, beginning in 2009 and through 2010, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google and Microsoft. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe and, in 2009, Expedia introduced a competitive offering. While agency hotel is an important component of our European strategy, we expect it will continue to take time for Expedia to drive meaningful demand to those hotels. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. In 2009, we experienced a reversal of these trends due to several factors including the softer macro environment, lower ad rates and a pullback in spend by some of our online competitors impacted by lower fee revenues. Our marketing spend in 2010 has returned to a more normalized environment as the economy has improved and as we have increased marketing spend associated with our international growth opportunities. We believe that over the long term we can manage our sales and marketing expense largely in line with revenue growth. As a result of our large and growing travel advertising business, we have a partial hedge with regard to the price of advertising. As advertising prices rise, our leisure transaction brands may spend more on their marketing efforts, while the TripAdvisor Media Network benefits from rising prices through revenue growth. Strategy We play a fundamental role in facilitating travel, whether for leisure, unmanaged business or managed business travelers. We are committed to providing travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers the world over with the best set of resources to serve their travel needs by leveraging Expedias critical assets our brand portfolio, technology and content innovation, global reach and breadth of product offering. In addition, we intelligently utilize our growing base of knowledge about destinations, activities, suppliers and travelers and our central position in the travel value chain to more effectively merchandise our travel offerings. 42 Table of Contents A discussion of the critical assets that we leverage in achieving our business strategy follows: Portfolio of Travel Brands . We seek to appeal to the broadest possible range of travelers, suppliers and advertisers through our collection of industry-leading brands. We target several different demographics, from the value-conscious traveler through our Hotwire brand to luxury travelers seeking a high-touch, customized vacation package through our Classic Vacations brand. We believe our flagship Expedia brand appeals to the broadest range of travelers, with our extensive product offering ranging from single item bookings of discounted product to dynamic bundling of higher-end travel packages. Our Hotels.com site and its international versions target travelers with premium hotel content such as 360 degree tours and hotel reviews. In the United States, Hotels.com generally appeals to travelers with shorter booking windows who prefer to drive to their destinations, and who make a significant portion of their travel bookings over the telephone. We have a robust and growing advertising business, led primarily by the efforts of the TripAdvisor Media Network, which offers travel and other advertisers a host of alternatives for reaching customers in our prime demographic. The majority of advertising revenue is generated through click-based advertising, but we also have a growing display advertising business as well as other new products such as hotel business listings, vacation rentals, and a new private sale site, SniqueAway. TripAdvisor generates customer traffic to its sites by offering a broad and deep selection of hotel reviews and other user-generated content to help travelers make decisions about where to travel, where to stay and what to do while on vacation. We also generate advertising revenue on our transaction sites, primarily through efforts of Expedia Media Solutions. Egencia makes travel products and services available on a managed basis to corporate travelers in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. We believe our appeal to suppliers and advertisers is further enhanced by our geographic breadth and range of business models, allowing them to offer their products and services to the industrys broadest range of travelers using our various agency, merchant and advertising business models. We intend to continue supporting and investing in our brand portfolio, geographic footprint and business models for the benefit of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers. Technology and Content Innovation. Expedia has an established tradition of technology innovation, from Expedia.coms inception as a division of Microsoft to our introduction of more recent innovations such as Expedias introduction of opaque hotel inventory through its new Unpublished Rates product, TripAdvisor Media Networks launch of the new private sale site, SniqueAway, through its Smarter Travel Media brand, and Expedia Affiliate Networks introduction of EAN Package Rates, that gives Expedia affiliates the ability to bundle their inventory with Expedia hotel package rates. In addition, in 2010, we increased our focus on mobile offerings and acquired Mobiata, a mobile application development company, to accelerate these efforts. We intend to continue innovating on behalf of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers with particular focus on improving the traveler experience, supplier integration and presentation, platform improvements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Global Reach. Our Expedia, Hotels.com and TripAdvisor Media Network brands operate both in North America and internationally. We also offer Chinese travelers an array of products and services through our majority ownership in eLong and through our TripAdvisor brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn, and we offer hotels to European-based travelers through Venere. In 2010, approximately 36% of our worldwide gross bookings and 38% of worldwide revenue were international. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific region using direct points of sale as well as strategic partnerships. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a significant opportunity for Expedia, and we believe we offer a compelling technology solution to businesses seeking to optimize travel costs and improve their employees travel experiences. We intend to continue investing in and expanding the geographic footprint and technology infrastructure of Egencia. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. 43 Table of Contents We intend to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. As an example, our traveler review feature whereby our travelers have created millions of qualified reviews of hotel properties is able to accumulate a larger base of reviews due to the higher base of online traffic that frequents our various websites. In addition, our increasing scale enhances our websites appeal to travel and non-travel advertisers. We intend to continue investing in and growing our international points of sale. We anticipate launching points of sale in additional countries where we find large travel markets and rapid growth of online commerce. Future launches may occur under any of our brands, or through acquisition of third party brands, as in the case of Egencia, eLong, Kuxun and Venere. Breadth of Product Offering . We offer a comprehensive array of innovative travel products and services to our travelers. We plan to continue improving and growing these offerings, as well as expand them to our worldwide points of sale over time. Travelers can interact with us how and when they prefer, including via our 24/7 1-800 telesales service, which is an integral part of the Companys appeal to travelers. We offer travelers access to over 130,000 hotels and over 300 airlines in over 200 countries around the world. Over 60% of our revenue comes from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with less than 15% of our worldwide revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We facilitate travel products and services either as stand-alone products or as part of package transactions. We have emphasized growing our merchant hotel and packages businesses as these result in higher revenue per transaction; however, we are working to grow our global agency hotel business through our Venere, Expedia and Hotel.com brands. We also seek to continue diversifying our revenue mix beyond core air and hotel products to car rental, destination services, cruise and other product offerings. We have been working toward and will continue to work toward increasing the mix of advertising and media revenue from both the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network, as well as increasing advertising revenue from our worldwide websites such as Expedia.com and Hotels.com, which have historically been focused on transaction revenue. In 2010, advertising and media revenue accounted for approximately 13% of worldwide revenue. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in the merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. As a result, revenue is typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The macroeconomic downturn in the latter part of 2008 also affected our general revenue seasonality trends in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition, the continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the 44 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumption that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and/or Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally recognize those amounts as revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience and contract terms. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Marketing Promotions We periodically provide incentive offers to our customers to encourage booking of travel products and services, which include inducement offers. Inducement offers include discounts granted at the time of a current purchase to be applied against a future qualifying purchase. We treat inducement offers as a reduction to revenue based on estimated future redemption rates. We allocate the discount amount between the current purchase and the potential future purchase based on our expected relative value of the transactions. We estimate our redemption rates using our historical experience for similar inducement offers, and the amounts we record as a reduction to revenue on current purchases could vary significantly based on the redemption estimates used. Loyalty Program Accruals We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our Hotels.com welcomerewards program. Welcomerewards offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we record a liability for the estimated future cost of redemptions. We determine the future redemption obligation based on judgment factors including: (i) the estimated cost of travel products to be redeemed, and (ii) an estimated redemption rate based on the overall accumulation and usage of points towards free travel products, which is determined through current and historical trends as well as statistical modeling techniques. The actual future cost and rate of redemptions could differ materially from our estimates. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill . We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. The impairment test requires us to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that 45 Table of Contents reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. In step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets . We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. As of October 1, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of each goodwill reporting unit significantly exceeded its carrying values. For additional information about our goodwill and intangible asset impairments recorded in 2008, see Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 46 Table of Contents Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. We record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. The determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. For those positions for which we conclude it is more likely than not it will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. The difference between the amount recognized and the total tax position is recorded as a liability. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies . We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy Tax . Some states and localities impose a transient occupancy or accommodation tax on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the occupancy tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In all but a limited number of jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit occupancy taxes, nor do we pay occupancy taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such occupancy taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve this issue. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit occupancy tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors 47 Table of Contents include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 7,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose hotel occupancy taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and e-commerce. Certain jurisdictions, such as the states of New York and North Carolina and the city of New York, have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of occupancy taxes on businesses that arrange the booking of hotel accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in occupancy tax related litigation which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Recent occupancy tax developments are also discussed below under the caption Occupancy Taxes. Stock-Based Compensation In 2009 and 2010, we awarded stock options as our primary form of employee stock-based compensation. We measure the value of stock option awards on the date of grant at fair value using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We amortize the fair value, net of estimated forfeitures, over the remaining term on a straight-line basis. The Black-Scholes model requires various highly judgmental assumptions including volatility and expected option term. If any of the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates for stock-based awards, we periodically conduct an assessment of the actual number of equity awards that have been forfeited to date as well as those expected to be forfeited in the future. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including the type of award, the employee class and historical experience. The estimate of stock awards that will ultimately be forfeited requires significant judgment and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period such estimates are revised. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in 51 lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: New lawsuits have been brought, including suits by the states of Oklahoma and Montana as well as Montgomery County, Maryland. 48 Table of Contents The South Carolina Supreme Court in the South Carolina Litigation ruled that the amounts that the online travel companies retain for the services that they provide in connection with merchant hotel transactions are subject to state sales taxes. The court in the Columbus-Findlay, Ohio Litigation entered final judgment in favor of the online travel companies after concluding that the online travel companies have not failed to remit taxes that they have collected. The court in the Philadelphia Litigation affirmed the decision of the Philadelphia Board of Finance that Expedia is not subject to Philadelphias hotel occupancy tax. The court in the Orange County, Florida Litigation denied Orange Countys request for a determination that the online travel companies are subject to Orange Countys hotel occupancy tax ordinance. The court in the Lawrence County, Pennsylvania Litigation dismissed the lawsuit against the online travel companies. Suit was brought by certain online travel companies, including certain Expedia subsidiaries, challenging the state of North Carolinas amended sales tax statute. For additional information on recent developments, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $24 million as of December 31, 2010 and $21 million as of December 31, 2009. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate amount we pay, if any, in connection with any of the occupancy tax-related matters. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we have accrued $13 million related to court decisions and final settlements, which includes amounts expected to be paid in connection with the South Carolina Litigation . Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that the taxpayer believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2010 and 2009, we expensed $3 million and $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the cities of Santa Monica and San Francisco. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the cities hotel occupancy tax ordinances. If we prevail in the litigation, the cities will be required to repay these amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York and North Carolina and the city of New York, have enacted legislation taxing online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. Segments We have three reportable segments: Leisure, the TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our TripAdvisor Media Network segment provides advertising services to travel suppliers on its websites, which aggregate traveler opinions and unbiased travel articles about cities, hotels, restaurants and activities in a variety of destinations through tripadvisor.com and its localized international versions as well as through its various travel media content properties within the TripAdvisor Media Network. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. 49 Table of Contents Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating Expedia. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 24,018 $ 20,428 $ 19,749 18 % 3 % TripAdvisor Media Network(1) N/A N/A Egencia 1,944 1,383 1,520 41 % (9 %) Total gross bookings $ 25,962 $ 21,811 $ 21,269 19 % 3 % Revenue Margin Leisure 12.0 % 12.9 % 13.3 % TripAdvisor Media Network(1) N/A N/A N/A Egencia 7.4 % 7.8 % 7.2 % Total revenue margin(1) 12.9 % 13.6 % 13.8 % (1) The TripAdvisor Media Network, which is comprised of media businesses that differ from our transaction-based websites and our Egencia business, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from the TripAdvisor Media Network is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2010 as compared to 2009 was primarily due to a 14% growth in transactions, a 10% increase in average airfares and a 1% increase in hotel ADRs. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to an 18% growth in transactions, substantially offset by lower prices for airline tickets and hotel room nights. The decrease in revenue margin in 2010 as compared to 2009 was primarily due to higher average air ticket prices, partially offset by growth in advertising and media revenue. The decrease in revenue margin in 2009 as compared to 2008 was primarily due to the reduction in traveler fees, the impact of our loyalty programs and a greater mix of lower margin hotels, partially offset by lower air ticket prices and a reduction in the mix of lower margin air product. Results of Operations Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Leisure $ 2,891 $ 2,635 $ 2,626 10 % 0 % TripAdvisor Media Network (Third-party revenue) 314 212 201 48 % 6 % Egencia 143 108 110 32 % (1 %) Total revenue $ 3,348 $ 2,955 $ 2,937 13 % 1 % In 2010, the increase in revenue was primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment as well as an increase in advertising and media revenue within TripAdvisor Media Network. 50 Table of Contents Worldwide hotel revenue increased 11% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to a 14% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages, partially offset by a 3% decline in revenue per room night. Worldwide air revenue increased 12% in 2010 compared to 2009 due to an 11% increase in air tickets sold and a 1% increase in revenue per air ticket. Worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services and agency cruise, increased by 19% in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue. In 2009, the increase in revenue was primarily due to increases within our Leisure segment in hotel, car and advertising and media revenue and an increase within our TripAdvisor Media Segment in advertising and media revenue. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in air revenue. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 2% in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a 23% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages and room nights booked through Venere (which we acquired in September 2008), partially offset by a 17% decline in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night declined largely due to a 15% decrease in ADRs, including a reduction in traveler fees. Excluding room nights stayed through Venere, room nights grew 20% for the year. Worldwide air revenue decreased 13% in 2009 compared to 2008 due to a 24% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 15% increase in ticket volumes. Expedia.com eliminated consumer booking fees on online air tickets in March 2009, with certain other points of sale following at various dates into the third quarter of 2009, which primarily drove the decline in revenue per ticket. This elimination of fees on Expedia.com and other points of sale, combined with lower average ticket prices, contributed to the increase in our air ticketing volumes. Worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above increased by 5% in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue and car rental revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 2,220 $ 2,005 $ 2,004 11 % 0 % Agency 705 639 651 10 % (2 %) Advertising and media(1) 423 311 282 36 % 10 % Total revenue $ 3,348 $ 2,955 $ 2,937 13 % 1 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from TripAdvisor Media Network as well as our Leisure transaction-based websites. Our merchant revenue for 2010 compared to 2009 increased due to an increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Our merchant revenue for 2009 compared to 2008 was relatively flat as increases in car revenue were offset by decreases in air revenue. Agency revenue increased for 2010 compared to 2009 due to an increase in air revenue as well as increases in hotel, corporate products, cruise and destination service revenue. Agency revenue decreased for 2009 compared to 2008 due to a decrease in air revenue primarily resulting from our Expedia.com U.S. booking fee removal and decreased agency package revenue, partially offset by higher hotel revenue related to Venere and higher car revenue. Advertising and media revenue increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to a 48% increase in advertising revenue at TripAdvisor Media Network. Advertising and media revenue increased in 2009 compared to 2008 primarily due to a 21% increase in advertising revenue at our Leisure transaction-based websites as well as a 6% increase at TripAdvisor Media Network. 51 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 326 $ 293 $ 295 11 % (1 %) Credit card processing 221 178 200 24 % (11 %) Data center and other 146 136 144 7 % (5 %) Total cost of revenue $ 693 $ 607 $ 639 14 % (5 %) % of revenue 20.7 % 20.5 % 21.7 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, certain promotions, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. In 2010, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were higher costs related to credit card processing, customer service and telesales to support the growth in our transaction volumes. In 2009, the primary drivers of the decrease in cost of revenue expense were a decrease in credit card processing costs as a result of our technology investments, lower promotions expense and air fulfillment efficiencies primarily resulting from bringing some of our air ticket fulfillment operations in-house. Selling and Marketing Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 866 $ 747 $ 826 16 % (10 %) Indirect costs 338 280 279 21 % 0 % Total selling and marketing $ 1,204 $ 1,027 $ 1,105 17 % (7 %) % of revenue 36.0 % 34.8 % 37.6 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our Partner Services Group, the TripAdvisor Media Network, Egencia and our various Leisure brands and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $177 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to an increase in online and offline marketing expenses, including search engine marketing, brand advertising and affiliate marketing expenses, and higher personnel costs, including those associated with opening a new global headquarters for our lodging supply group, as well as higher professional service costs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $78 million in 2009 compared to 2008 due to lower offline brand spending for our global websites, lower online spend as well as lower private label and affiliate expenses associated with the lower overall travel demand environment. Offline and online advertising spend decreased primarily as a result of a lower cost advertising environment, our investments in search engine optimization and marketing, and costs for other customer value enhancements that stimulate demand but do not impact selling and marketing expense such as fee reductions and loyalty programs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in direct costs for Venere. 52 Table of Contents Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 188 $ 167 $ 156 13 % 7 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 77 68 48 12 % 42 % Other 97 85 84 14 % 2 % Total technology and content $ 362 $ 320 $ 288 13 % 11 % % of revenue 10.8 % 10.8 % 9.8 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The year-over-year increase of $42 million in technology and content expense in 2010 was primarily due to increased personnel costs for increased headcount, including contractors, to support our worldwide transaction-based businesses and our TripAdvisor Media Network businesses, an increase in consulting and professional fees as well as an increase in depreciation expense. The year-over-year increase of $32 million in technology and content expense in 2009 was primarily due to increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets as well as increased incentive compensation expense. General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 174 $ 158 $ 154 10 % 3 % Professional fees and other 140 132 115 6 % 15 % Total general and administrative $ 314 $ 290 $ 269 8 % 8 % % of revenue 9.4 % 9.8 % 9.1 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. In 2010, the increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes as well as higher personnel expenses, recruiting and travel expenses, partially offset by a reduction in legal and related fees primarily due to the timing of litigation. In 2009, the increase in general and administrative expense was primarily due to an increase in legal fees, settlements and other professional fees of $16 million, including costs related to the consumer class action lawsuit and occupancy tax matters, as well as higher personnel costs resulting from increased incentive compensation expense. Amortization of Intangible Assets Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 37 $ 38 $ 69 (1 %) (46 %) % of revenue 1.1 % 1.3 % 2.4 % 53 Table of Contents In 2010, the decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets, partially offset by a charge of approximately $4 million related to changes in the estimated value of contingent purchase consideration and amortization related to new business acquisitions. In 2009, the decrease in amortization of intangible assets expense was primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain technology, supplier relationship and distribution agreement intangible assets, partially offset by amortization related to new business acquisitions. For additional information about our acquisitions, see Note 3 Acquisitions and Other Investments in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Tax Assessments and Legal Reserves During 2010, we recognized $3 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the Santa Monica occupancy tax proceedings and a $3 million expense related to an increase in the estimated coupon redemption rate related to the Expedia consumer class action lawsuit. During 2009, we recognized $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the San Francisco occupancy tax proceedings and an accrual of $19 million for the estimated settlement cost of the Expedia consumer class action lawsuit. For additional information, see Note 15 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Restructuring Charges During 2009, in conjunction with the reorganization of our business around our global brands, and the resulting centralization of locations and brand management, marketing and administrative personnel as well as certain customer operations centers, we recognized $34 million in restructuring charges. These charges were primarily related to employee severance and related benefits. Restructuring charges related to the brand reorganization were completed by the end of 2009. For additional information, see Note 13 Restructuring Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible and Other Long-lived Assets In 2008, we recorded impairments of approximately $3 billion of long-term assets, which consisted of $2.8 billion of goodwill, $223 million of intangible assets and $11 million related to capitalized software. Impaired intangible assets consisted of certain of our indefinite-lived trade names. For additional information about our impairments, see Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We recorded no such impairments in 2010 and 2009. Operating Income (Loss) Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Operating income (loss) $ 732 $ 571 $ (2,429 ) 28 % N/A % of revenue 21.9 % 19.3 % (82.7 )% In 2010, operating income increased primarily due to an increase in revenue, which was offset by a corresponding increase to operating expenses, as well as restructuring charges recorded in 2009 that did not recur and higher occupancy tax assessments and legal reserves recorded in 2009. In 2009, the change to operating income was due to the prior year impairment of long-term assets of approximately $3 billion. In addition, selling and marketing expense and cost of revenue decreased compared to the increase in revenue, partially offset by the San Francisco occupancy tax assessments, restructuring charges and class action settlement legal reserve as well as growth in technology and content and general and administrative expenses at rates in excess of revenue growth. 54 Table of Contents Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 7 $ 6 $ 30 15 % (80 %) Interest expense (101 ) (84 ) (72 ) 20 % 17 % Interest income increased in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to higher average cash and investment balances. Interest expense increased in 2010, compared to 2009, primarily resulting from additional interest on the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2010. Interest income decreased in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily due to lower average interest rates. Interest expense increased in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily resulting from interest on the $400 million senior unsecured notes issued in June 2008, partially offset by lower interest expense related to our revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, our long-term indebtedness totaled $1.645 billion, $895 million, and $1.545 billion. Other, net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate losses, net $ (18 ) $ (30 ) $ (47 ) (41 %) (37 %) Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment (5 ) (100 %) N/A Other 1 3 N/A (110 %) Total other, net $ (17 ) $ (35 ) $ (44 ) (51 %) (20 %) In 2008, in connection with the closing of an acquisition and the related holding of euros to economically hedge the purchase price, we recognized a net loss of $21 million, included in foreign exchange rate losses, net. Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 195 $ 154 $ 6 26 % N/A Effective tax rate 31.4 % 33.7 % (0.2 )% In 2010, our effective tax rate was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to an increase in earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, where our effective rate is lower, and a reversal of accruals for uncertain tax positions resulting from the conclusion of 2005 to 2007 IRS audits, which reversal was partially offset by state income taxes and accruals on continuing uncertain tax positions. The change in the effective rate for 2010 compared to the 2009 rate was primarily due to an increase in earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States and a reversal of accruals for uncertain tax positions resulting from the conclusion of 2005 to 2007 IRS audits, partially offset by a 2009 deduction relating to the closure of a foreign subsidiary that did not recur in 2010. In 2009, our effective tax rate was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to a fourth quarter deduction relating to the closure of a foreign subsidiary, partially offset by state income taxes. The change in the 2009 effective rate compared to the 2008 rate was primarily due to the impairment of goodwill in 2008, of which 55 Table of Contents a substantial portion was not deductible for income tax purposes. Absent the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, our 2008 effective tax rate would have been 41.5%, and our 2009 effective rate was lower than this rate primarily due to the deduction relating to the closure of a foreign subsidiary and, to a lesser extent, lower accruals related to uncertain tax positions. In 2008, our effective tax rate differed from the 35% statutory rate due to the impairment of goodwill, of which a substantial portion was not deductible for income tax purposes. Absent the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, our 2008 effective tax rate would have been 41.5%, which was higher than the 35% statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.2 billion and $688 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, including $153 million and $148 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries; and our revolving credit facility. In August 2010, we privately placed $750 million of senior unsecured notes due in August 2020. In December 2010, we completed an offer to exchange these notes for registered notes having substantially the same financial terms and covenants as the original notes (the unregistered and registered notes collectively, the 5.95% Notes). The 5.95% Notes were issued at 99.893% of par resulting in a discount, which is being amortized over their life. Interest is payable semi-annually in February and August of each year, beginning February 15, 2011. In February 2010, we entered into a new $750 million, three-year revolving credit facility, replacing our prior credit facility. In August 2010, we amended the new facility, extending the maturity to August 2014, decreasing the interest rate spreads and fees and modifying certain covenants and other terms. Current pricing is based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250 basis points, and undrawn amounts bearing interest at 37.5 basis points. As of December 31, 2010, $723 million was available under the facility representing the total $750 million facility less $27 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In October 2009, our long-term ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors were raised to Ba1 and BBB-, respectively. Standard and Poors maintains a stable ratings outlook and Moodys changed its outlook to positive in August 2010. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. However, at any time during which Standard and Poors and Moodys assign an investment credit rating to the company and no default exists under the 8.5% Note indenture, certain of the covenants for our 8.5% Notes, including the covenants limiting under certain circumstances our ability to incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends or make restricted payments and dispose of assets, will be suspended during that time period. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to other business models that generally consume working capital, such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel or media, or if there are changes to the merchant model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payments to suppliers, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. 56 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, as well as changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses may counteract or intensify these anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of December 31, 2010, we had a deficit in our working capital of $188 million, compared to a deficit of $610 million as of December 31, 2009. The change in deficit is primarily due to financing and investing activities including proceeds from the issuance of the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2010, partially offset by share repurchases, dividend payments and purchases of marketable securities classified as long-term investments. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs 2009 2009 vs 2008 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 777 $ 676 $ 521 $ 101 $ 155 Investing activities (818 ) (48 ) (860 ) (770 ) 812 Financing activities 132 (660 ) 465 792 (1,125 ) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (20 ) 9 (78 ) (29 ) 87 In 2010, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $101 million primarily due to higher operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization as well as a decrease in income tax payments, partially offset by decreased benefits from working capital changes. In 2009, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $155 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes and growth in operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization, partially offset by an increase in income tax and interest payments as well as occupancy tax assessments. In 2010, cash used in investing activities increased by $770 million primarily due to increased net purchases of investments of $672 million and an increase in capital expenditures of $63 million. In 2009, cash used in investing activities represented a positive change of $812 million in cash flows primarily due to a $493 million decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, cash provided by the net maturities of investments of $47 million in 2009 compared to $93 million in purchases in 2008 and a decrease in capital expenditures of $68 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2010 primarily included the net proceeds of $742 million from the 5.95% senior notes issued in August 2010 and $51 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards, partially offset by cash paid to acquire shares of $502 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorizations discussed below, $79 million in cash dividend payments, as well as $78 million paid to acquire additional interests in certain majority owned subsidiaries. Cash used in financing activities in 2009 primarily included the repayment of $650 million of borrowings under the credit facility. Cash provided by financing activities in 2008 primarily included $457 million of net borrowings of debt. In 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. On October 25, 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized an additional repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. During 2010, 57 Table of Contents we repurchased, through open market transactions, 20.6 million shares under these authorizations for a total cost of $489 million, excluding transaction costs, representing an average repurchase price of $23.71 per share. As of December 31, 2010, 19.4 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under the October 2010 authorization. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchases. No additional repurchases have been made under this authorization as of February 10, 2011. In 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount (in thousands) Payment Date February 10, 2010 $ 0.07 March 11, 2010 $ 20,220 March 31, 2010 April 27, 2010 0.07 May 27, 2010 19,902 June 17, 2010 July 26, 2010 0.07 August 26, 2010 19,703 September 16, 2010 October 25, 2010 0.07 November 18, 2010 19,251 December 9, 2010 In addition, on February 9, 2011, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 11, 2011. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2010 showed a net decrease of $29 million primarily due to higher foreign-denominated cash balances in the current year and the relative depreciation in foreign currencies during 2010 compared to their appreciation in 2009. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2009 showed a net increase of $87 million primarily due to the relative appreciation in foreign currencies during 2009 compared to their depreciation in 2008. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2010: By Period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Long-term debt(1) $ 2,600 $ 117 $ 232 $ 232 $ 2,019 Operating leases(2) 218 42 73 49 54 Purchase obligations(3) 53 38 15 Guarantees(4) 37 33 4 Letters of credit(4) 27 19 8 Unrecognized tax benfits(5) 2 2 Total $ 2,937 $ 251 $ 332 $ 281 $ 2,073 (1) Our 8.5% Notes, 7.456% Notes, and 5.95% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2016, 2018, and 2020 respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. In the above table, we have reflected the 7.456% Notes based on the maturity date in 2018; however such Notes are repayable in whole or in part on August 15, 2013 at the option of the holders. (2) The operating leases are for office space and related office equipment. We account for these leases on a monthly basis. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2020. 58 Table of Contents (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily for certain regulatory purposes as well as to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. The outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authority of certain foreign countries to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within those countries. These countries hold all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. Our guarantees also include certain surety bonds related to various company performance obligations. (5) Excludes $74 million of unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2010. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see Note 16 Related Party Transactions in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Part II.