Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on both TripAdvisor Media Network and on our transaction-based websites. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com , TripAdvisor Media Network, Expedia Affiliate Network, Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia , eLong , and Venere Net SpA (Venere). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. In addition, beginning in September 2008, global economic and financial market conditions worsened markedly, creating uncertainty for travelers and suppliers. This macroeconomic downturn pressured discretionary spending on travel and advertising, with initial weakness in the United States and the United Kingdom markets increasing and spreading to all geographies. Although current macroeconomic trends have been generally stable to slightly improved, unemployment remains at historically high levels and 19 Table of Contents consumer spending remains pressured. More recently, volcanic activity and related travel disruptions, foreign currency fluctuations (primarily the devaluation of the Euro), overall uncertainty about the European economy and rising airfares have all contributed to pressure on the travel industry generally and our volumes specifically. Our near-term visibility remains limited. Airline Sector The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. U.S. airlines responded to chronic overcapacity, financial losses and extreme volatility in oil prices by aggressively reducing their cost structures and seating capacities. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Most carriers aggressively reduced capacities in 2008 and 2009, and at this time, plans for re-visiting capacity expansion in 2010 appear to be relatively limited. Recently there has been increased carrier consolidation, which tends to put additional pressure on capacity and fares. In 2008, many carriers raised their per seat yields by increasing fares, assessing fuel surcharges and increasing the use of a la carte pricing for such items as baggage, food and beverage and preferred seating. Since then, the use of ancillary fees to supplement revenues has remained, and in some cases been expanded. However, as overall travel demand waned at the end of 2008 and into 2009, carriers began lowering ticket prices in order to attract more leisure travelers. Expedia generally benefits from a low fare environment, as low fares tend to encourage leisure travel, leave more of the travel budget available for hotel spend and because our air revenues are tied principally to ticket volumes, not prices. Hence, the 2009 fare environment was a favorable one for Expedia, as airfares on tickets sold by Expedia decreased 15% in 2009, contributing to 15% growth in air tickets sold. More recently, however, given the stabilization in the macro economy and aggressive capacity reductions, carriers have begun increasing fares. In the second quarter of 2010, airfares on Expedia sites were up 17%, and our current forecasts indicate that airfare increases will likely continue at least through the summer travel season. In the spring of 2009, Expedia.com and other major online travel agencies began offering air tickets to consumers without an associated online booking fee, matching the airline supplier sites, which also do not charge online booking fees. Expedia broadened this fee elimination to many of its international websites, as well as removed most change/cancel fees in excess of those charged by travel suppliers. These fee actions, combined with the above reductions in distribution costs, have combined to reduce Expedias global revenue per ticket by over 30% in the past three years. We passed the anniversary of these fee cuts beginning in March 2010 which eliminated the pressure on revenue per ticket but contributed to a meaningful decline in our rate of growth in air tickets sold. As a result of the above industry dynamics and the strength of our other product lines, in 2009 air revenue constituted just 12% of our global revenues. We may encounter additional pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew in 2010 and beyond, and as air carriers and GDSs re-negotiate their long-term agreements in 2011. In addition to the above challenges, larger carriers participating in the Expedia marketplace have generally reduced their share of total air seat capacity, while leading low-cost carriers such as Southwest in the United States have increased their relative capacities, but have generally chosen not to participate in the Expedia marketplace. This trend has negatively impacted our ability to obtain supply in our air business, and increased the relative attractiveness of other online and offline sales channels. Hotel Sector In 2008, the hotel sector witnessed supply growth and slowing demand, resulting in declining occupancy rates. Average Daily Rate (ADR) growth, which had been robust in 2006 and 2007, slowed considerably throughout 2008, and by the end of 2008 had stopped growing entirely. In 2009, we experienced a 15% decline in global ADRs due primarily to weak travel demand and continued supply expansion. In the first half of 2010, ADRs began to stabilize and for Expedia were flat on a year over year basis. While lower occupancies have historically increased the availability of discounted hotel rooms, and a lower rate of ADR growth can positively impact underlying room night growth, lower ADRs also decrease our revenue per room night as our 20 Table of Contents remuneration varies proportionally with the room price. Revenue per room night in 2009 declined 17% primarily due to the downward movement in ADRs as well as adverse movements in foreign exchange rates and lower fees. In the first half of 2010, ADRs have been generally flat to slightly increasing on our sites while revenue per room night is down 6%. The decrease in revenue per room night is due in part to adverse movements in the foreign exchange rates, lower consumer fees and customer refunds as a result of the Icelandic volcano. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2009 approximately 56% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 32% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to lag behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. As a result, according to PhoCusWright, by 2009 travel supplier sites accounted for 61% of total online travel spend in the United States. More recently, due to booking fee reductions and eliminations, online agents appear to have regained some share of overall online travel spend. Our visibility on whether these share gains continue once we pass the anniversary of the fee actions in 2010 is limited. Differentiation among the various website offerings has narrowed dramatically in the past several years, and the travel landscape has grown extremely competitive, with the need for competitors to generally differentiate their offerings on features other than price. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies; although in most cases they are not providing actual travel booking services. Some of these competitors have raised significant amounts of capital and have begun to aggressively market their service offerings. In early 2009, TripAdvisor.com launched a competitive metasearch travel offering featuring a Fee Estimator enabling customers to see the price of their flight including various airline fees such as baggage charges. In addition, beginning in 2009 we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations and acquisitions by companies such as Google and Microsoft. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases places pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe, and Expedia introduced a competitive offering in the spring of 2009. While agency hotel is an important component of our European strategy, we expect it will take time to gain traction with incremental hotel suppliers, and for Expedia to drive meaningful demand to those hotels. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. In 2009, we experienced a reversal of these trends due to several factors including the softer macro environment, lower ad rates and a pullback in spend by some of our online competitors impacted by lower fee revenues. Our marketing spend in the first half of 2010 has returned to a more normalized environment as the economy improves. We believe that over the long term we can manage the direct portion of our sales and marketing expense largely in line with revenue growth. Strategy We play a fundamental role in facilitating travel, whether for leisure, unmanaged business or managed business travelers. We are committed to providing travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers the world over with the best set of resources to serve their travel needs by leveraging Expedias critical assets our brand portfolio, our technology and commitment to continuous innovation, our global reach and our breadth of product offering. In addition, we intelligently utilize our growing base of knowledge about destinations, activities, suppliers and travelers and our central position in the travel value chain to more effectively merchandise our travel offerings. 21 Table of Contents A discussion of the critical assets that we leverage in achieving our business strategy follows: Portfolio of Travel Brands. We seek to appeal to the broadest possible range of travelers, suppliers and advertisers through our collection of industry-leading brands. We target several different demographics, from the value-conscious traveler through our Hotwire brand to luxury travelers seeking a high-touch, customized vacation package through our Classic Vacations brand. We believe our flagship Expedia brand appeals to the broadest range of travelers, with our extensive product offering ranging from single item bookings of discounted product to dynamic bundling of higher-end travel packages. Our Hotels.com site and its international versions target travelers with premium hotel content such as 360-degree tours and hotel reviews. In the United States, Hotels.com generally appeals to travelers with shorter booking windows who prefer to drive to their destinations, and who make a significant portion of their travel bookings over the telephone. Through Egencia, we make travel products and services available on a managed basis to corporate travelers in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Further, our TripAdvisor Media Network allows us to reach a broad range of travelers with travel opinions and user-generated content. We believe our appeal to suppliers and advertisers is further enhanced by our geographic breadth and range of business models, allowing them to offer their products and services to the industrys broadest range of travelers using our various agency, merchant and advertising business models. We intend to continue supporting and investing in our brand portfolio, geographic footprint and business models for the benefit of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers. Technology and Continuous Innovation. Expedia has an established tradition of technology innovation, from Expedia.coms inception as a division of Microsoft to our introduction of more recent innovations such as Expedias introduction of its Expedia Easy Manage agency hotel program, Media Solutions introduction of rich media display ads called StorePoint Expandables, TripAdvisors launch of its new hotel Business Listings product and new mobile sites in 17 countries and 11 different languages, Expedia.coms introduction of Unpublished Rates opaque hotel inventory and Hotwires introduction of its One-Way car product. We intend to continue innovating on behalf of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers with particular focus on improving the traveler experience, supplier integration and presentation, platform improvements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Global Reach. Our Expedia, Hotels.com and TripAdvisor Media Network brands operate both in the United States and internationally. We also offer Chinese travelers an array of products and services through our majority ownership in eLong and through our TripAdvisor brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn, and we offer hotel bookings to European-based travelers through our wholly-owned subsidiary Venere, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2008. During the first half of 2010, approximately 34% of our worldwide gross bookings and 35% of worldwide revenue were international. Egencia, our corporate travel business, currently operates in over 30 countries around the world both through dedicated points of sale as well as through the Egencia Global Alliance. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a large opportunity for Expedia, and we believe we offer a compelling technology solution to businesses seeking to optimize travel costs and improve their employees travel experiences. We intend to continue investing in and expanding the geographic footprint and technology infrastructure of Egencia. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services, and offering proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. As an example, our traveler review feature whereby our travelers have created millions of qualified reviews of hotel properties is able to accumulate a larger base of reviews due to the higher base of online traffic that frequents our various websites. In addition, our increasing scale enhances our websites appeal to travel and non-travel advertisers. We intend to continue investing in and growing our international points of sale. We anticipate launching points of sale in additional countries where we find large travel markets and rapid growth of online commerce. Future launches may occur under any of our brands, or through acquisition of third party brands, as in the case of eLong, Venere and Egencia. 22 Table of Contents Breadth of Product Offering. We offer a comprehensive array of innovative travel products and services to our travelers. We plan to continue improving and growing these offerings, as well as expand them to our worldwide points of sale over time. Travelers can interact with us how and when they prefer, including via our 24/7 1-800 telesales service, which is an integral part of the Companys appeal to travelers. In the first half of 2010, over 60% of our revenue came from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with approximately 13% of our worldwide revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We facilitate travel products and services either as stand-alone products or as part of package transactions. We have emphasized growing our merchant hotel and packages businesses as these result in higher revenue per transaction; however, we are also working to grow our global agency hotel business in Europe, given the success of the agency model with both suppliers and travelers in that region. We also seek to continue diversifying our revenue mix beyond core air and hotel products to car rental, destination services, cruise and other product offerings. We have been working toward and will continue to work toward increasing the mix of advertising and media revenue from both the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network, as well as increasing advertising revenue from our worldwide websites such as Expedia.com and Hotels.com, which have historically been focused on transaction revenue. During the first half of 2010, advertising and media revenue accounted for approximately 13% of worldwide revenue. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in our merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. As a result, revenue is typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 23 Table of Contents Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in 50 lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: Certain new lawsuits have been brought, including suits by the City of Santa Monica, California; the Town of Hilton Head Island, South Carolina; Baltimore County, Maryland; and the City of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as further described below. City of San Diego, California Litigation. The San Diego hearing officer held in favor of the City of San Diego at the administrative level and held that occupancy taxes are due. We have appealed the decision. This action is consolidated in the Superior Court of the State of California, Los Angeles with the pending claims by the cities of Anaheim, San Francisco and Los Angeles, and further proceedings will take place in this court. City of Atlanta, Georgia Litigation. The trial court ruled on the parties cross-motions for summary judgment. The court held that the online travel companies are not innkeepers and therefore are not subject to the Atlanta ordinance. The court held that the online travel companies are third-party tax collectors and that tax should be collected on the online travel companies fees. The court issued an injunction requiring the online travel companies to collect and remit taxes on their fees. Settlements or settlements in principle of the lawsuits brought by Worcester County, Maryland; the County of Monroe, Florida; and the suit brought by the City of Charleston, Town of Mt. Pleasant and City of North Myrtle Beach, South Carolina have been reached. For additional information on recent developments, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $27 million as of June 30, 2010, which includes amounts expected to be paid in connection with the settlements listed above, and $21 million as of December 31, 2009. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate amount we pay, if any, in connection with any of the occupancy tax-related matters. In addition, certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that the taxpayer believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2009, we expensed $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the city of San Francisco. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the citys hotel occupancy tax ordinance. If we prevail in the litigation, the city will be required to repay these amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. Segments We have three reportable segments: Leisure, TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our TripAdvisor Media Network segment provides advertising services to travel suppliers on its websites, which aggregate traveler opinions and unbiased travel articles about cities, hotels, restaurants and activities in a variety of destinations through tripadvisor.com and its localized international versions as well as through its various travel media content properties within TripAdvisor Media Network. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for an understanding and evaluation of Expedias Leisure and Egencia segments. Gross bookings represent the 24 Table of Contents total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 6,194 $ 5,293 17 % $ 12,355 $ 10,198 21 % TripAdvisor Media Network (1) N/A N/A Egencia 489 330 48 % 960 651 47 % Total gross bookings $ 6,683 $ 5,623 19 % $ 13,315 $ 10,849 23 % Revenue Margin Leisure 11.6 % 13.0 % 10.8 % 12.2 % TripAdvisor Media Network (1) N/A N/A N/A N/A Egencia 7.3 % 8.1 % 7.2 % 7.9 % Total revenue margin (1) 12.5 % 13.7 % 11.7 % 13.0 % (1) TripAdvisor Media Network, which is comprised of media businesses that differ from our transaction-based websites and our Egencia business, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from the TripAdvisor Media Network is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, as compared to the same periods in 2009, was primarily due to a 10% and 14% increases in transactions and a 17% and 13% increase in average airfares. The decrease in revenue margin for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, as compared to the same periods in 2009, was primarily due to a higher mix of air bookings, which have a lower revenue margin than our other products and services. The higher mix of air bookings is due in part to an increase in air ticket prices. Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Leisure $ 716 $ 690 4 % $ 1,329 $ 1,249 6 % TripAdvisor Media Network (Third-party revenue) 82 53 55 % 154 105 47 % Egencia 36 27 33 % 69 52 34 % Total revenue $ 834 $ 770 8 % $ 1,552 $ 1,405 10 % Revenue increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment as well as an increase in advertising and media revenue within our TripAdvisor Media Network and Leisure segments. 25 Table of Contents Worldwide hotel revenue increased 4% and 8% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009. The increase was primarily due to a 12% and 14% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages, partially offset by a 7% and 6% decline in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased due to the impact from foreign exchange, customer refunds related to the Icelandic volcano and lower hotel services fees for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the same periods in 2009 . Worldwide air revenue increased 13% and 9% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2010 was due to a 6% increase in air tickets sold combined with a 7% increase in revenue per air ticket. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was due to a 14% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 4% decrease in revenue per air ticket. Revenue per air ticket increased during the three month period primarily as a result of an increase in average airfares, while it decreased for the six month period due to our elimination of booking fees on Expedia.com beginning in March 2009, partially offset by an increase in average airfares. The remaining worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, agency cruise, increased by 17% and 18% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 548 $ 527 4 % $ 999 $ 936 7 % Agency 178 165 9 % 347 319 9 % Advertising and media (1) 108 78 39 % 206 150 38 % Total revenue $ 834 $ 770 8 % $ 1,552 $ 1,405 10 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from TripAdvisor Media Network as well as our Leisure transaction-based websites. Merchant revenue increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed . Agency revenue increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, due to an increase in air revenue. Advertising and media revenue increased during the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, primarily due to a 55% and 47% increase in advertising revenue at TripAdvisor Media Network. Cost of Revenue Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 82 $ 72 14 % $ 160 $ 140 15 % Credit card processing 53 43 24 % 98 83 18 % Data center and other 34 34 (2 %) 69 69 (1 %) Total cost of revenue $ 169 $ 149 13 % $ 327 $ 292 12 % % of revenue 20.2 % 19.3 % 21.0 % 20.8 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, certain promotions, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. 26 Table of Contents During the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were higher costs related to credit card processing, telesales and customer service to support the growth in our transaction volumes. The three months ended June 30, 2010 also increased as a result of expenses related to the Icelandic volcano and airline strike activity as well as investments made during the second quarter, such as call center migration. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010. Selling and Marketing Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 216 $ 204 6 % $ 418 $ 372 12 % Indirect costs 81 67 19 % 160 135 18 % Total selling and marketing $ 297 $ 271 9 % $ 578 $ 507 14 % % of revenue 35.6 % 35.3 % 37.2 % 36.1 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our Partner Services Group (PSG), TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $26 million and $71 million during the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, due to an increase in affiliate marketing expenses, higher personnel costs primarily related to our PSG staff and our global advertising and media businesses, expenses associated with the opening of a new global headquarters for our lodging supply group and an increase in online spending for Hotwire. We expect selling and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010 in part due to approximately $20 million in relocation and other costs related to the opening of a new global headquarters for our lodging supply group. Technology and Content Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 44 $ 42 5 % $ 91 $ 83 10 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 20 16 21 % 36 32 13 % Other 23 20 20 % 47 41 15 % Total technology and content $ 87 $ 78 12 % $ 174 $ 156 12 % % of revenue 10.5 % 10.1 % 11.2 % 11.1 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The increase of $9 million and $18 million in technology and content expense during the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support our worldwide transaction-based businesses and TripAdvisor Media Network businesses as well as an increase in depreciation expense associated with an increase in our capital expenditures. We expect technology and content expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010. 27 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 43 $ 39 10 % $ 83 $ 75 10 % Professional fees and other 36 28 28 % 67 60 12 % Total general and administrative $ 79 $ 67 17 % $ 150 $ 135 11 % % of revenue 9.5 % 8.8 % 9.7 % 9.6 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. The $12 million increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, was due primarily to an increase in our reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes and higher personnel expenses, partially offset by a reduction in legal and related fees primarily due to the timing of litigation. The $15 million increase for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was due to similar factors, with higher personnel expenses being the primary driver of the year over year increase. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 8 $ 9 (10 %) $ 17 $ 18 (5 %) % of revenue 1.0 % 1.2 % 1.1 % 1.3 % Restructuring Charges During the three and six months of 2009, in conjunction with the reorganization of our business around our global brands, we recognized $6 million and $15 million in restructuring charges primarily related to employee severance and related benefits. No such charges were recognized during the first half of 2010. For additional information, see Note 7 Restructuring Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Tax Assessments and Legal Reserves During the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, we recognized $55 million, which was reduced to $48 million subsequently in 2009, related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the San Francisco occupancy tax proceedings and an accrual of $19 million for the settlement of the Expedia consumer class action lawsuit. For additional information, see Note 9 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Income Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Operating income $ 194 $ 115 69 % $ 306 $ 208 47 % % of revenue 23.2 % 14.9 % 19.7 % 14.8 % Operating income increased for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009, primarily due to occupancy tax assessments and legal reserves and restructuring charges recorded in 2009 that did not recur and an increase in revenue, which was substantially offset by a corresponding increase to costs and expenses. 28 Table of Contents Interest Income and Expense Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Interest income $ 1 $ 1 (14 %) $ 2 $ 4 (56 %) Interest expense (20 ) (21 ) (3 %) (41 ) (42 ) (2 %) Interest income decreased for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to the same periods in 2009 primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains/(losses), net $ 1 $ (15 ) (107 %) $ 2 $ (21 ) (110 %) Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment (5 ) (100 %) (5 ) (100 %) Equity income/(loss) of unconsolidated affiliates 1 (100 %) (1 ) N/A Total other, net $ 1 $ (19 ) (106 %) $ 1 $ (26 ) (106 %) Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 % Change 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (60 ) $ (34 ) 75 % $ (92 ) $ (62 ) 49 % Effective tax rate 34.3 % 45.1 % 34.3 % 43.0 % We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective rate. We record any changes to the estimated annual rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. The decrease in the effective rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010 as compared to the same periods in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, the non-deductible portion of occupancy tax assessments accrued during the second quarter of 2009 as well as a non-deductible loss on one of our equity method investment and, to a lesser extent, lower accrual related to uncertain tax positions. Our effective tax rate was 34.3% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, which is lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. Our effective tax rate was 45.1% and 43.0% for the three and six months ended June 30, 2009, which is higher than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and non-deductible expenses described above. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.0 billion and $688 million at June 30, 2010 and December 31, 2009, including $132 million and $148 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries; and our revolving credit facility. In February 2010, we entered into a new $750 million, three-year revolving credit facility, replacing our prior credit facility. Pricing is based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 300 basis points, and undrawn amounts bearing interest at 50 basis points. We incurred approximately $8 million in fees associated with the new facility, which will be amortized over its life of three years. As of June 30, 2010, $721 million was available under the facility representing the total $750 million facility less $29 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. We had an additional $11 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit related to the prior facility. 29 Table of Contents Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In October 2009, our long-term ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors were raised to Ba1 and BBB-, respectively. Both agencies maintain a stable ratings outlook. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial policy or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our suppliers, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital will positively impact operating cash flows. If this business model declines relative to our other businesses, or if there are changes to the model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payment to suppliers, our working capital benefits could be reduced. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates or changes to the hotel business model or booking patterns as discussed above may affect working capital, which might counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of June 30, 2010, we had a deficit in our working capital of $772 million, compared to a deficit of $610 million as of December 31, 2009 primarily due to financing activities including stock repurchases and dividend payments. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidations and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our cash flows are as follows: Six months ended June 30, 2010 2009 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 933 $ 845 $ 88 Investing activities (491 ) 35 (526 ) Financing activities (241 ) (678 ) 437 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (48 ) (5 ) (43 ) For the six months ended June 30, 2010, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $88 million primarily due to a decrease in income tax payments and higher operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization. We used $526 million more in cash for investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increased use of cash of $428 million related to net purchases of investments, an increase in capital expenditures of $31 million and an increase in net cash paid for acquisitions of $28 million. 30 Table of Contents Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2010 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $199 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2006 authorization discussed below, as well as $40 million in cash dividend payments, partially offset by $31 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards. Cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2009 primarily included the repayment of $650 million of borrowings under the prior credit facility. In 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchase. During the first half of 2010, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 8.4 million shares under this authorization for a total cost of $188 million, representing an average repurchase price of $22.46 per share. As of June 30, 2010, 11.6 million shares remain authorized for repurchase. No additional repurchases have been made under this authorization as of July 29, 2010. In the first and second quarters of 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 11, 2010 and May 27, 2010. In addition, on July 26, 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 26, 2010. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency for the six months ended June 30, 2010 showed a net decrease of $48 million reflecting depreciation in currencies and higher foreign-denominated cash balances in the current year period. We also have a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which Expedia, Inc. may offer from time to time debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock or warrants. The shelf registration statement expires on October 15, 2010. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2009. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of June 30, 2010 or December 31, 2009. 31 Table of Contents Part I.