managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our transaction-based websites. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com TM , Expedia Affiliate Network (EAN), Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert TM , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia TM , eLong TM , and Venere Net SpA (Venere). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. On December 20, 2011, following the close of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market, we completed the spin-off of TripAdvisor, Inc. (TripAdvisor), which consisted of the domestic and international operations previously associated with our TripAdvisor Media Group, to Expedia stockholders. We refer to this transaction as the spin-off. Immediately prior to the spin-off, Expedia effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. 20 Table of Contents Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2011 represented a year of gradual improvement for the travel industry. However, natural disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, political and social unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, the rising price of oil, and ongoing sovereign debt and economic issues in several European countries, all contribute to a somewhat uncertain forward environment for the travel industry. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2011, approximately 54% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 39% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to be over 20%, lagging behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies. New models, such as daily deals and private sale sites have also begun proliferating. We have a number of daily deals offered on our retail websites as well as deal specific offerings such as Hotwires Travel-Ticker, and a partnership with Groupon called Groupon Getaways with Expedia. In addition, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google and Microsoft. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both a merchant and an agency hotel offer for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is lower than that for our consolidated business but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. However, we believe that over the long-term we can manage our sales and marketing expense to be roughly in line with revenue growth. Hotel We generate the majority of our revenue through the marketing and distribution of hotel rooms (stand-alone and package bookings). Our relationships and negotiated economics with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years. We have, however, implemented new customer loyalty programs and have eliminated or reduced some fees in that timeframe and, as such, the margin of revenue we earn per booking has declined. Over the course of the last two years, occupancies and average daily rates (ADRs) in the lodging industry have generally improved in a gradually improving overall travel environment. From a supply perspective, there is very little new, net hotel supply being added in the U.S. lodging market with large chains focusing their development opportunities in international markets. This may help hoteliers with their objective of continuing to grow their ADRs and could lead to pressure in negotiations with hoteliers and may ultimately lead to pressure on terms for us and our OTA competitors. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a much faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with over 150,000 hotels as of the end of the first quarter of 2012 representing growth of 11%. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights growing 14% in 2010, 18% in 2011 and 24% for the first quarter of 2012. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites grew 1% in 2010 and 5% in 2011, while they were flat year-over-year for the first quarter of 2012. 21 Table of Contents Air The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. In recent years, there has been increased air carrier consolidation, generally resulting in lower overall capacity and higher fares. In addition, air carriers have made significant efforts to keep seat capacity relatively low in order to ensure that demand for seats remains high and that flights are as full as possible. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Ticket prices on Expedia sites grew 11% in 2011 and 7% in the first quarter of 2012. We are encountering significant pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew, and as air carriers and global distribution system (GDS) intermediaries re-negotiate their long-term agreements. In part as a result of sharply rising average ticket prices, our ticket volumes decreased by 8% in 2011 after having grown by 11% in 2010. Air ticket volumes grew 5% in the first quarter of 2012, largely due to air ticket sales of a major U.S. carrier, which were absent in the first quarter of 2011 due to a commercial disagreement. From a product perspective, over 70% of our revenue comes from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with just over 10% of our revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We believe that the hotel product is the most profitable of the products we distribute and represents our best overall growth opportunity. Growth Strategy Product Innovation . Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. They each operate a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and helps customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technological platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched our new Hotels.com global platform in the first quarter of 2010, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle for that brand. Since then, we have been successful in improving conversion and driving much faster growth rates for the Hotels.com brand. We are in the midst of a similar transformation for our Expedia brand, having rolled out its new hotel platform in the second half of 2011, with expectations that the new air and package platforms will be launched in 2012. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, EAN, and Hotwire brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. We own a majority share of eLong, which is the second largest online travel company in China. We also own Venere, a European brand, which focuses on marketing hotel rooms in Europe. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in 46 countries around the world and continues to expand aggressively. We also partner in a 50/50 joint venture with AirAsia a low cost carrier serving the Asia - Pacific region to jointly grow an online travel agency business. Although the results for the joint venture are not consolidated in our financial statements, we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. In 2011, approximately 39% of our worldwide gross bookings and 42% of worldwide revenue were international up from 22% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. In the first quarter of 2012, 39% of our gross bookings and 40% of our revenue were international. We have a stated goal of driving more than half of our gross bookings and revenue through international points of sale. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale affords the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an increasingly larger supply portfolio 22 Table of Contents and creates opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technology very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements to conversion. New Channel Penetration. Today, the vast majority of online travel bookings are generated through typical desktop and laptop computers. However, recent technological innovations and developments are creating new opportunities including travel bookings made through mobile devices. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends. We own a leading travel application company called Mobiata which is responsible for several top travel applications, such as FlightTrack, FlightTrack Pro and FlightBoard, and is now creating new mobile applications for our Expedia brand, most recently launching the mobile Expedia Hotels application for both the iPhone and the iPad. We believe mobile bookings present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are typically completed within one day of the travel or stay which is a much shorter booking window than we have historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. We are also working with suppliers on specific mobile offerings which can represent a unique value proposition and offer customers room nights for as much as a 50% discount from retail rates. Other recent developments in new channels include the proliferation of the daily deals space for which we have multiple efforts. For example, our Expedia brand has an exclusive partnership with Groupon, Groupon Getaways with Expedia, where we work with suppliers to offer consumers deeply discounted travel opportunities on a limited basis. We believe this may also represent incremental travel bookings as it typically represents an impulse purchase compared to historical travel purchasing activity which tends to be a highly considered and deliberate transaction. Our Hotwire brand also operates the Travel-Ticker brand which sources and markets deep discount travel. Virtually all of our leisure brands have efforts related to the daily deals or deep discount space. Many of our brands are also actively participating in Facebook, Twitter and other social channels and we anticipate the importance of these channels to consumers and to our industry to increase over time. It is our intention to grow our social efforts alongside this trend. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in the merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the more stable nature of our fixed costs. As a result, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. Additionally, prior to the spin-off, TripAdvisor typically comprised a larger relative portion of our revenue and income during the first quarter. Thus, following the spin-off the seasonal impact on our business will be more pronounced, particularly in the first quarter, as the bookings versus recognition of revenue time lag under the merchant hotel business represents a larger portion of our operating results without TripAdvisor. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 23 Table of Contents There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in 49 lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: Branson, Missouri Litigation. On January 28, 2012, the court granted the defendant online travel companies motion to dismiss holding that online travel companies are not subject to hotel occupancy tax. The city has appealed. Cities of Goodlettsville and Brentwood, Tennessee Litigation. On February 21, 2012, the court granted the online travel companies motion for summary judgment and denied the cities motion for summary judgment, and held that online travel companies are not liable for occupancy taxes. City of Bowling Green, Kentucky Litigation. On February 15, 2012, the Kentucky Supreme Court denied the city of Bowling Greens motion for discretionary review of the Court of Appeals decision that online travel companies are not liable for hotel occupancy tax. City of Birmingham, Alabama Litigation. On April 13, 2012, the Alabama Supreme Court affirmed the lower courts grant of summary judgment in favor of the online travel companies and held that hotel occupancy taxes are not due from online travel companies. Leon County, Florida et al. Litigation. On April 19, 2012, the court granted the online travel companies motion for summary judgment and denied the counties motion for summary judgment. City of Philadelphia Litigation. On February 2, 2012, the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania affirmed the lower court decision and held that hotel occupancy taxes are not due from Expedia. City of Portland Litigation. On February 17, 2012, the online travel companies brought suit against the city of Portland and Multnomah County for a declaration that occupancy taxes are not due on the amounts they charge for their online services. Subsequent to the filing of the suit, the city and county sought to assess the online travel 24 Table of Contents companies (approximately $21 million for the Expedia companies with no disclosed supporting basis) and to require the payment of tax, interest and penalties before a legal determination is made. On March 22, 2012, the online travel companies obtained a temporary restraining order preventing the city and county from pursuing any assessment until the court has ruled on whether the online travel companies lawsuit may proceed. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $31 million as of March 31, 2012, which includes amounts expected to be paid in connection with the developments described above, and $32 million as of December 31, 2011. In addition, as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, we have also accrued $1 million and $10 million related to court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that the taxpayer believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2009, we expensed $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the city of San Francisco. During 2010, we expensed $3 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the city of Santa Monica; these funds were returned to us by the city in December 2011 in exchange for a letter of credit. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the cities hotel occupancy tax ordinances. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina and Minnesota, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. Segments We have two reportable segments: Leisure, and Egencia. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, EAN, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. 25 Table of Contents Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, % Change 2012 2011 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 7,666 $ 6,653 15 % Egencia 755 642 18 % Total gross bookings $ 8,421 $ 7,295 15 % Revenue Margin Leisure 10.0 % 10.3 % Egencia 7.0 % 6.6 % Total revenue margin 9.7 % 10.0 % The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the same period in 2011, was primarily due to a 24% increase in hotel room nights through accelerated growth in all Leisure brands except Expedia. The decrease in revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the same period in 2011, was primarily due to lower net air supplier economics, rising average air ticket prices as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of the ticket and changes in our hotel product mix, partially offset by growth in our higher margin hotel business. Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, % Change 2012 2011 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Leisure $ 763 $ 686 11 % Egencia 53 42 25 % Total revenue $ 816 $ 728 12 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 18% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011. The increase was primarily due to a 24% increase in room nights stayed, partially offset by a 6% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to changes in our hotel product mix, discounting at the Hotwire brand, accruals for loyalty programs at Expedia and Hotels.com and impacts of foreign currency. Worldwide air revenue decreased 17% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to a 20% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 5% increase in air tickets sold. Revenue per air ticket declined due to lower net supplier economics, partially offset by certain regional and interline consumer booking fees. The increase in air ticket sold was due to availability of American Airlines tickets for the duration of the first quarter of 2012 that were not available to leisure consumers for the duration of the first quarter of 2011, partially offset by a 7% increase in average air ticket prices. 26 Table of Contents The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, increased by 15% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to an increase in car revenue, advertising and media revenue and fees related to our corporate travel business. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 603 $ 520 16 % Agency 182 181 1 % Advertising and media 31 27 14 % Total revenue $ 816 $ 728 12 % Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue remained relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, as the growth in our agency hotel business and corporate travel business was mostly offset by a decline in agency air revenue. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 97 $ 83 17 % Credit card processing 62 54 14 % Data center and other 41 39 7 % Total cost of revenue $ 200 $ 176 14 % % of revenue 24.5 % 24.1 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2012, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were higher credit card processing costs related to our merchant bookings growth as well as higher personnel expenses driven by additional headcount to support our global customer operations, partially offset by lower debit card fees and an increase in credit card rebates. Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 282 $ 269 5 % Indirect costs 95 82 16 % Total selling and marketing $ 377 $ 351 7 % % of revenue 46.2 % 48.2 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our global supply organization, Egencia and various Leisure brands and stock-based compensation costs. 27 Table of Contents Selling and marketing expenses increased $26 million during the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, driven by increases in affiliate marketing expenses at EAN, offline marketing expenses at Hotwire and Hotels.com as well as higher personnel expenses driven by additional headcount across several brands and our supply organization, partially offset by lower online marketing expenses at our Expedia brand. Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 61 $ 46 32 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 23 19 20 % Other 25 22 16 % Total technology and content $ 109 $ 87 25 % % of revenue 13.3 % 11.9 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The increase of $22 million in technology and content expense during the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, was primarily due to increased personnel costs for increased headcount to support our Expedia brand, supply organization and corporate technology function as well as increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 50 $ 42 18 % Professional fees and other 29 29 (1 %) Total general and administrative $ 79 $ 71 10 % % of revenue 9.6 % 9.8 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. The $8 million increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, was due primarily to higher personnel expenses resulting from an increase in headcount. 28 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 3 $ 6 (41 %) % of revenue 0.4 % 0.8 % Amortization for the three months ended March 31, 2012 included an approximate $2 million reduction related to a change in the estimated value of contingent purchase consideration for one of our prior acquisitions. Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other was a gain of less than $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to expense of approximately $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011. Operating Income Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Operating income $ 49 $ 35 38 % % of revenue 6.0 % 4.8 % Operating income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to a growth in revenue in excess of operating expenses. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 6 $ 3 72 % Interest expense (21 ) (23 ) (5 %) Interest income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2012, compared to the same period in 2011, primarily due to a higher rate of return on cash, cash equivalent and investment balances as well as higher average balances. Other, Net Other, net changed from a loss of $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 to a loss of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily due to lower net foreign exchange rate losses, partially offset by an increase in equity method operating losses. 29 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 5 $ 3 82 % Effective tax rate 19.5 % 32.8 % We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective rate. We record any changes to the estimated annual rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. The decrease in the effective rate for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as compared to the same period in 2011 was primarily due to a release of accruals related to uncertain tax positions as well as an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside of the United States. Our effective tax rate was 19.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2012, which was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States and accruals related to uncertain tax positions, partially offset by state income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 32.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, which was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. Discontinued Operations, Net of Taxes During the three months ended March 31, 2012, we incurred a loss from early extinguishment of our 8.5% senior notes due 2016 (the 8.5% Notes) resulting directly from the spin-off of TripAdvisor. The pre-tax loss was approximately $38 million (or $24 million net of tax), which included an early redemption premium of $33 million and the write-off of $5 million of unamortized debt issuance and discount costs. This loss was recorded within discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2012, as that was the period in which the 8.5% Notes were legally extinguished. For additional information, see Note 3 Acquisitions and Dispositions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Discontinued operations also includes the results of operations of TripAdvisor for the three months ended March 31, 2011, the reclassification of expense related to the obligation to fund a charitable foundation that was assumed by TripAdvisor in conjunction with the spin-off as well as interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs and discount related to 8.5% Notes which were redeemed in connection with the spin-off. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $2.0 billion and $1.3 billion at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, including $304 million and $302 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries as well as $152 million and $131 million held in foreign subsidiaries related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our $750 million revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2012, $728 million was available under the facility representing the total $750 million facility less $22 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. The revolving credit facility bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points, and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 22.5 basis points as of March 31, 2012. The indenture governing our $400 million aggregate principal amount of 8.5% Notes contained certain covenants that could have restricted implementation of the spin-off. On December 20, 2011, prior to consummation of the spin-off, we gave Notice of Redemption to the bondholders, the effect of which was the bonds became due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. The redemption date is defined as 30 days after the Notice of Redemption is given. In order to complete the Notice of Redemption, we were required to irrevocably deposit, with the Trustee, funds sufficient to pay the redemption price plus accrued interest on the 8.5% Notes (approximately $451 million). The 8.5% Notes were fully redeemed on January 19, 2012 for approximately $450 million. In connection with the redemption, we incurred a pre-tax loss from early extinguishment of debt of approximately $38 million (or $24 million net of tax). This loss was recorded within discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2012, as that was the period in which the bonds were legally extinguished. The debt extinguishment was completed, in part, using the approximately $400 million of cash distributed to us from TripAdvisor in connection with the spin-off. 30 Table of Contents Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In April 2011, in response to our announcement of the TripAdvisor spin-off, Moodys affirmed its Ba1 rating and changed its outlook to from positive to stable, while S&P and Fitch placed the Companys ratings on Credit Watch with negative implications and Rating Watch Negative, respectively. In October 2011, Fitch affirmed its rating at BBB- and removed the rating from Rating Watch Negative, with an outlook of stable. In December 2011, S&P affirmed the Companys BBB- rating and removed the ratings from Credit Watch, with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our suppliers, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we continue to evaluate the use of the merchant model versus the agency model in each of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel or media, or if there are changes to the merchant model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payment to suppliers, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated, or even reversed. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, as well as changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2012, we had a deficit in our working capital of $418 million, compared to a deficit of $279 million as of December 31, 2011. The change in deficit was primarily due to stock repurchases during the first quarter of 2012. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our capital expenditures for full year 2012 are expected to be slightly above 2011 spending levels. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2012 2011 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 848 $ 693 $ 155 Investing activities (98 ) (424 ) 326 Financing activities (175 ) (67 ) (108 ) Net cash provided by (used in) discontinued operations (8 ) 40 (48 ) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 16 9 7 31 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $155 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes as well as an increase in operating income. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, approximately $326 million less cash was used in investing activities primarily due to decreased net purchases of investments of $327 million. We expect to close an acquisition in the second quarter of 2012 for a purchase price not expected to exceed $215 million. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2012 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $198 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2010 authorization discussed below, as well as a $12 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $32 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $48 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2010 authorization discussed below, as well as a $19 million cash dividend payment. In 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 5.8 million and 2.0 million shares (1.0 million on a reverse split adjusted basis) under these authorizations for a total cost of $192 million and $41 million, excluding transaction costs. As of April 26, 2012, subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2012, we repurchased the additional 3 million shares remaining under the 2010 authorization for a total cost of $99 million, excluding transaction costs. On April 25, 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. No shares have been repurchased under this authorization as of April 26, 2012 and the authorization has no fixed termination date for the repurchases. In the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 and $0.14 per share of outstanding common stock. In addition, on April 25, 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share of outstanding common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 30, 2012. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2012, there were 30 million privately held warrants outstanding, which if exercised in full, would entitle the holders to acquire 7.4 million common shares of Expedia, Inc. at a weighted average exercise price of $24.16. All of these warrants expire in May 2012. The holders of the stock warrants may choose at their option, without payment of cash, to reduce the number of shares otherwise obtainable upon exercise for payment (i.e. cashless exercise) in lieu of a cash payment. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2011. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2012 or December 31, 2011. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, including TripAdvisor, see Note 10 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 32 Table of Contents Part I.