Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on both TripAdvisor Media Network and on our transaction-based websites. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com TM , TripAdvisor Media Group, Expedia Affiliate Network, Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert TM , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia TM , eLong TM , and Venere Net SpA (Venere). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. On April 7, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors preliminarily approved a plan to separate Expedia, Inc. into two publicly traded companies: TripAdvisor, which will include the domestic and international operations associated with the TripAdvisor Media Group, which includes its flagship brand as well as 18 other travel media and advertising brands, and Expedia, Inc., which will continue to include the domestic and international operations of our travel transaction brands including Expedia.com, Hotels.com, eLong, Hotwire, Egencia, Expedia Affiliate Network, CruiseShipCenters, Venere, Classic Vacations and carrentals.com. The transaction is subject to a number of conditions including final approval by our Board of Directors of transaction specifics. In addition, it is expected that we will seek stockholder approval of the transaction. The proposed spin-off is 17 Table of Contents expected to be completed in the fall of 2011. The disclosures within this Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations are on a consolidated Expedia, Inc. basis and do not take into account the proposed spin-off of TripAdvisor. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Throughout 2010 and into 2011, the travel industry has been gradually improving after weathering the recession in 2009. However, natural disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, political and social unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, the rising price of oil, and ongoing sovereign debt issues in several European countries, all contribute to a somewhat tenuous improvement in the environment for travel. As such, global economic conditions remain uncertain and our near-term visibility remains limited. Airline Sector The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. In recent years, there has been increased air carrier consolidation, generally resulting in lower overall capacity and higher fares. In addition, air carriers have made significant efforts to keep seat capacity relatively low in order to ensure that demand for seats remains high and that flights are as full as possible. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Ticket prices on Expedia sites grew 10% in 2010 and 13% in the first quarter of 2011. Air capacity discipline appears to generally remain in place, and though there had been signs that carriers were beginning to add some capacity, the sharply rising price of oil has curbed those intentions and carriers have recently begun trimming their capacity growth plans. We believe that the economics for our air business are largely stable in the near term, though we could encounter pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew, and as air carriers and global distribution system (GDS) intermediaries re-negotiate their long-term agreements in 2011. For example, in late 2010, American Airlines began to pursue a new distribution strategy requiring online travel agents to agree to connect directly to American Airlines systems, rather than through GDSs, and our contract with American Airlines expired without renewal resulting in their fares being removed from our leisure travel sites. American Airlines tickets were placed back on the sites in early April 2011 pursuant to a memorandum of understanding. In part as a result of sharply rising average ticket prices and the absence of American Airlines tickets, our ticket volumes decreased by 10% in the first quarter of 2011 after having grown by 11% in the full year 2010. Hotel Sector Hotel occupancies and average daily rates (ADRs) in the lodging industry generally improved for the last 12 months in an improving overall travel environment. Our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights growing 14% in 2010 and 15% in the first quarter of 2011. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites grew 1% in 2010 and 3% in the first quarter of 2011. We believe that the economics for our hotel business are largely stable. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2010, approximately 54% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 37% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to be around 20%, lagging behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. The industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies. New models, such as daily deals and private sale sites have also begun proliferating. Some of these competitors have raised significant amounts of capital and have begun to aggressively market their service offerings. In addition, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google and Microsoft. 18 Table of Contents In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, in effect competing with the travel agencies who also distribute their products. We believe this competition will continue into the future. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe. While our own agency hotel model is an important component of our hotel strategy, we expect it will continue to take time for Expedia to drive meaningful demand to those hotels. We expect to continue to evaluate the use of both the merchant and agency hotel models in various geographies around the world, and may over time, pursue one or the other model more aggressively in certain regions depending on our assessment of the market demands. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. After the global recession, our marketing spend increased significantly as the economy has improved and as we have increased marketing spend associated with our international growth opportunities. We believe that over the long term we can manage our sales and marketing expense largely in line with revenue growth. As a result of our large and growing travel advertising business, we have a partial hedge with regard to the price of advertising. As advertising prices rise, our leisure transaction brands may spend more on their marketing efforts, while the TripAdvisor Media Group benefits from rising prices through revenue growth. Strategy We play a fundamental role in facilitating travel, whether for leisure, unmanaged business or managed business travelers. We are committed to providing travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers the world over with the best set of resources to serve their travel needs by leveraging Expedias critical assets our brand portfolio, our technology and commitment to continuous innovation, our global reach and our breadth of product offering. In addition, we intelligently utilize our growing base of knowledge about destinations, activities, suppliers and travelers and our central position in the travel value chain to more effectively merchandise our partners travel offerings. A discussion of the critical assets that we leverage in achieving our business strategy follows: Portfolio of Travel Brands. We seek to appeal to the broadest possible range of travelers, suppliers and advertisers through our collection of industry-leading brands. We target several different demographics, from the value-conscious traveler through our Hotwire brand to luxury travelers seeking a high-touch, customized vacation package through our Classic Vacations brand. We believe our flagship Expedia brand appeals to the broadest range of travelers, with our extensive product offering ranging from single item bookings of discounted product to dynamic bundling of higher-end travel packages. Our Hotels.com site and its international versions target travelers with premium hotel content such as 360-degree tours and hotel reviews. In the United States, Hotels.com generally appeals to travelers with shorter booking windows who prefer to drive to their destinations, and who make a significant portion of their travel bookings over the telephone. We have a robust and growing advertising business, led primarily by the efforts of the TripAdvisor Media Group, which offers travel and other advertisers a host of alternatives for reaching customers in our prime demographic. The majority of advertising revenue is generated through click-based advertising, but we also have a growing display advertising business as well as other new products such as hotel business listings, vacation rentals, and a private sale site, SniqueAway. TripAdvisor generates customer traffic to its sites by offering a broad and deep selection of hotel reviews and other user-generated content to help travelers make decisions about where to travel, where to stay and what to do while on vacation. We also generate advertising revenue on our transaction sites, primarily through efforts of Expedia Media Solutions and Hotwire. Egencia makes travel products and services available on a managed basis to corporate travelers in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. 19 Table of Contents We believe our appeal to suppliers and advertisers is further enhanced by our geographic breadth and range of business models, allowing them to offer their products and services to the industrys broadest range of travelers using our various agency, merchant and advertising business models. We intend to continue supporting and investing in our brand portfolio, geographic footprint and business models for the benefit of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers. Technology and Continuous Innovation . Expedia has an established tradition of technology innovation, from Expedia.coms inception as a division of Microsoft to more recent innovations such as Expedias introduction of opaque hotel inventory through its new Unpublished Rates product, TripAdvisor Media Groups launch of its private sale site, SniqueAway, through its Smarter Travel Media brand, and Expedia Affiliate Networks introduction of EAN Package Rates, that gives Expedia affiliates the ability to bundle their inventory with Expedia hotel package rates. In addition, in 2010, we increased our focus on mobile offerings and acquired Mobiata, a mobile application development company, to accelerate these efforts. All of our brands are working on and have introduced a variety of mobile offers with both Expedia and Hotels.com each recently launching new mobile applications. We intend to continue innovating on behalf of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers with particular focus on improving the traveler experience, supplier integration and presentation, platform improvements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Global Reach. Our Expedia, Hotels.com and TripAdvisor Media Group brands operate both in the United States and internationally. We also offer Chinese travelers an array of products and services through our majority ownership in eLong and through our TripAdvisor brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn, and we offer hotels to European-based travelers through Venere. During the first quarter of 2011, approximately 39% of our worldwide gross bookings and 40% of worldwide revenue were international. Egencia, our corporate travel business, currently operates in North America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and the Asia Pacific region using direct points of sale as well as strategic partnerships. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a significant opportunity for Expedia, and we believe we offer a compelling technology solution to businesses seeking to optimize travel costs and improve their employees travel experiences. We intend to continue investing in and expanding the geographic footprint and technology infrastructure of Egencia. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services, and offering proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. As an example, our traveler review feature whereby our travelers have created millions of qualified reviews of hotel properties is able to accumulate a larger base of reviews due to the higher base of online traffic that frequents our various websites and transacts with us. In addition, our increasing scale enhances our websites appeal to travel and non-travel advertisers. We intend to continue investing in and growing our international points of sale. We anticipate launching points of sale in additional countries where we find large travel markets and rapid growth of online commerce. Future launches may occur under any of our brands, or through acquisition of third party brands, as in the case of Egencia, eLong, Kuxun and Venere. Breadth of Product Offering. We offer a comprehensive array of innovative travel products and services to our travelers. We plan to continue improving and growing these offerings, as well as expand them to our worldwide points of sale over time. Travelers can interact with us how and when they prefer, including via our 24/7 1-800 telesales service, which is an integral part of the Companys appeal to travelers. We offer travelers access to over 135,000 hotels and over 300 airlines in over 200 countries around the world. In the first quarter of 2011, approximately 59% of our revenue came from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with 13% of our worldwide revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We facilitate travel products and services either as stand-alone products or as part of package transactions. We have emphasized growing our merchant hotel and packages businesses as these result in higher revenue per transaction; however, we are working to grow our global 20 Table of Contents agency hotel business through our Venere, Expedia and Hotels.com brands. We also seek to continue diversifying our revenue mix beyond core air and hotel products to car rental, destination services, cruise and other product offerings. We have been working toward increasing the mix of advertising and media revenue from both the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Group, as well as increasing advertising revenue from our worldwide websites such as Expedia.com and Hotels.com, which have historically been focused on transaction revenue. During the first quarter of 2011, advertising and media revenue accounted for approximately 15% of worldwide revenue. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in our merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. As a result, revenue is typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in 53 lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: New lawsuits have been brought, including suits brought by the city of Duluth, Minnesota, the District of Columbia and citizen-taxpayers in the state of Arkansas. The court in City of Santa Monica, California Litigation sustained the online travel companies demurrer to complaint brought by the city of Santa Monica. The court in State of Oklahoma Litigation granted the online travel companies motion to dismiss the case. The court in City of Birmingham, Alabama Litigation granted the motion for summary judgment brought by the online travel companies and dismissed the case. The Brevard County, Hilton Head and Myrtle Beach cases have been settled. For additional information on recent developments, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $21 million as of March 31, 2011 and $24 million as of December 31, 2010. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate amount we pay, if any, in connection with any of the occupancy tax-related matters. In addition, as of March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had an accrual totaling $13 million related to court decisions and final settlements. Changes to these settlement reserves are included within general and administrative expenses. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that the taxpayer believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2010 and 2009, we expensed $3 million and $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the cities of Santa Monica and San Francisco. Such amounts were expensed when incurred within legal reserves and occupancy tax assessments. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the cities hotel occupancy tax ordinances. If we prevail in the litigation (including any appeal), the cities will be required to repay these amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. In addition, certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York and North Carolina, the city of New York and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. Segments We have three reportable segments: Leisure, TripAdvisor Media Group and Egencia. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our TripAdvisor Media Group segment provides advertising services to travel suppliers on its websites, which aggregate traveler opinions and unbiased travel articles about cities, hotels, restaurants and activities in a variety of destinations through tripadvisor.com and its localized international versions as well as through its various travel media content properties within TripAdvisor Media Group. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. 22 Table of Contents Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for an understanding and evaluation of Expedias Leisure and Egencia segments. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 6,652 $ 6,161 8 % TripAdvisor Media Group (1) N/A Egencia 642 471 36 % Total gross bookings $ 7,294 $ 6,632 10 % Revenue Margin Leisure 10.3 % 9.9 % TripAdvisor Media Group (1) N/A N/A Egencia 6.6 % 7.2 % Total revenue margin (1) 11.3 % 10.8 % (1) TripAdvisor Media Group, which is comprised of media businesses that differ from our transaction-based websites and our Egencia business, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from the TripAdvisor Media Group is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, was primarily due to a 13% increase in average airfares, an 8% increase in transactions and a 3% increase in ADRs. The increase in revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2011, as compared to the same period in 2010, was primarily due to a shift to higher margin products and growth in advertising and media revenue, partially offset by rising average air ticket prices. 23 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Leisure $ 686 $ 613 12 % TripAdvisor Media Group (Third-party revenue) 94 71 32 % Egencia 42 34 25 % Total revenue $ 822 $ 718 15 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment as well as an increase in advertising and media revenue within our TripAdvisor Media Group segment. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 16% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages, and a 1% increase in revenue per room night. Worldwide air revenue increased 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to an 18% increase in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 10% decrease in air tickets sold. The increase in revenue per ticket was primarily due to increasing average air ticket prices, acceleration of merchant air revenue and performance-based incentives. The decrease in air ticket sold was partially due to a 13% increase in average air ticket prices and the lack of American Airlines content for the duration of first quarter 2011. Expedia and Hotwire sites worldwide added back American Airlines content on April 4, 2011 pursuant to a memorandum of understanding reached with American Airlines. The remaining worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, agency cruise, increased by 15% for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 520 $ 451 15 % Agency 181 169 8 % Advertising and media (1) 121 98 23 % Total revenue $ 822 $ 718 15 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from TripAdvisor Media Group as well as our Leisure transaction-based websites. Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to growth in our agency hotel business and to a lesser extent higher destination service and corporate products revenue . Advertising and media revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to a 32% increase in advertising revenue at TripAdvisor Media Group. TripAdvisor experienced robust growth in its three main revenue categories during first quarter of 2011 including cost per click (CPC) based revenue, display advertising revenue and growth in other revenue, generally comprised of subscription-based products, which experienced triple digit growth. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 84 $ 78 8 % Credit card processing 54 45 21 % Data center and other 40 35 12 % Total cost of revenue $ 178 $ 158 13 % % of revenue 21.6 % 22.0 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, certain promotions, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2011, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were higher personnel expenses within supply and customer service operations and higher net credit card processing costs related to our merchant transaction growth. Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 242 $ 202 20 % Indirect costs 99 79 25 % Total selling and marketing $ 341 $ 281 21 % % of revenue 41.5 % 39.1 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our Partner Services Group (PSG), TripAdvisor Media Group and Egencia and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $60 million during the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, driven by increases in both online and offline marketing expenses, including search engine marketing and brand advertising as well as higher personnel expenses, primarily at TripAdvisor Media Group and PSG. We spent approximately 60% of our direct marketing expenses internationally as part of our focus on driving global transaction growth and expanding international revenue. 25 Table of Contents Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 57 $ 47 20 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 22 17 33 % Other 24 23 7 % Total technology and content $ 103 $ 87 19 % % of revenue 12.6 % 12.1 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The increase of $16 million in technology and content expense during the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, was primarily due to increased personnel costs for increased headcount to support our worldwide transaction-based businesses as well as our TripAdvisor Media Group businesses and increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 49 $ 40 21 % Professional fees and other 34 31 10 % Total general and administrative $ 83 $ 71 16 % % of revenue 10.1 % 9.9 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. The $12 million increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, was due primarily to higher personnel expenses resulting from an increase in headcount as well as an increase in legal costs and related reserves. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 8 $ 9 (12 %) % of revenue 1.0 % 1.3 % 26 Table of Contents Legal Reserves During the three months ended March 31, 2011, we recognized $1 million in expense to increase the estimated coupon redemption rate related to the Expedia consumer class action lawsuit. This expense was recorded within legal reserves and occupancy tax assessments in the consolidated statement of operations. Operating Income Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Operating income $ 108 $ 112 (4 %) % of revenue 13.2 % 15.6 % Operating income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to a growth in operating expenses in excess of revenue. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 3 $ 1 476 % Interest expense (31 ) (21 ) 47 % Interest income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily due to higher average interest rates. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2011, compared to the same period in 2010, primarily resulting from additional interest on the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2010. Other, Net Other, net changed from income of $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 to a loss of $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily due to net foreign exchange rate losses from our revenue hedging program during the period versus gains in the prior year period. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, % Change 2011 2010 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 22 $ 32 (30 %) Effective tax rate 29.6 % 34.2 % We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective rate. We record any changes to the estimated annual rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. The decrease in the effective rate for the three months ended March 31, 2011 as compared to the same period in 2010 was primarily due to an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States. Our effective tax rate was 29.6% and 34.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, which was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, partially offset by state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. 27 Table of Contents Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion at March 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, including $153 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries for both periods; and our $750 million revolving credit facility. As of March 31, 2011, $723 million was available under the facility representing the total $750 million facility less $27 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. The revolving credit facility bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 250 basis points, and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 37.5 basis points as of March 31, 2011. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In October 2009, our long-term ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors were raised to Ba1 and BBB-, respectively. In August 2010, in conjunction with our 5.95% note offering, Fitch issued a BBB- rating for Expedia. Standard and Poors maintains a stable ratings outlook and Moodys changed its outlook to positive in August 2010. In April 2011, in response to our announcement of the TripAdvisor spin off, Moodys affirmed its Ba1 rating and changed its outlook to stable, while S&P and Fitch placed the Companys ratings on Credit Watch Negative and Rating Watch Negative, respectively. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our suppliers, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we continue to evaluate the use of the merchant model versus the agency model in each of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel or media, or if there are changes to the merchant model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payment to suppliers, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated, or even reversed. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, as well as changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2011, we had a deficit in our working capital of $225 million, compared to a deficit of $188 million as of December 31, 2010. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. 28 Table of Contents Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, $ Change 2011 2010 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 729 $ 620 $ 109 Investing activities (434 ) (49 ) (385 ) Financing activities (65 ) (201 ) 136 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 9 (15 ) 24 For the three months ended March 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $109 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes. For the three months ended March 31, 2011, net cash used in investing activities increased by $385 million primarily due to an increased use of cash of $354 million related to net purchases of investments. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2011 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $48 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2010 authorization discussed below, as well as a $19 million cash dividend payment. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $198 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2006 authorization discussed below, as well as a $20 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $26 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards. In 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. On October 25, 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized an additional repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 2.0 million and 8.4 million shares under these authorizations for a total cost of $41 million and $188 million, excluding transaction costs. As of March 31, 2011, 17.4 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under the October 2010 authorization. No additional repurchases have been made under this authorization as of April 28, 2011. In the first quarter of 2011 and 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 11, 2011 and 2010. In addition, on April 27, 2011, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 27, 2011. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency for the three months ended March 31, 2011 showed a net increase of $24 million reflecting intra-quarter appreciations in currencies. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2010. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2011 or December 31, 2010. 29 Table of Contents Part I.