Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. COVID-19, and the volatile regional and global economic conditions stemming from it, and additional or unforeseen effects from the COVID-19 pandemic, could also give rise to or aggravate these risk factors, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations (including revenues and profitability) and/or stock price. Further, COVID-19 may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks to our operations. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, goal, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projected, seeks, should and will, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Overview Expedia Group's mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We help reduce the barriers to travel, making it easier, more enjoyable, more attainable and more accessible. We bring the world within reach for customers and partners around the globe. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to orchestrate the movement of people and the delivery of travel experiences on both a local and global basis. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, activities and experiences providers, cruise lines, alternative accommodations property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The COVID-19 pandemic, and measures to contain the virus, including government travel restrictions and quarantine orders, have had a significant negative impact on the travel industry. COVID-19 has negatively impacted consumer sentiment and consumers ability to travel, and many of our supply partners, particularly airlines and hotels, continue to operate at reduced service levels. As the spread of the virus has been contained to varying degrees in certain countries, some travel restrictions have been lifted and consumers have become more comfortable traveling, particularly to domestic locations. This led to a moderation of the declines in travel bookings and in cancellation rates since March and April 2020. However, travel bookings remain below and cancellation rates remain elevated compared to pre-COVID levels. 23 Table of Contents The degree of containment of the virus, and the recovery in travel, has varied country by country. During the recovery period, there have been instances where cases of COVID-19 have started to increase again after a period of decline, which in some cases impacted the recovery of travel in certain countries. While many countries have continued vaccinating their residents against COVID-19, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing t he vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine against new variants of the virus, may contribute to delays in economic recovery. COVID-19 has also had broader economic impacts, including an increase in unemployment levels and reduction in economic activity, which could lead to recession and further reduction in consumer or business spending on travel activities, which may negatively impact the timing and level of a recovery in travel demand. Broader, sustained negative economic impacts could also put strain on our suppliers, business and service partners which increases the risk of credit losses and service level or other disruptions. Our financial and operating results for 2020 were significantly impacted due to the decrease in travel demand related to COVID-19. While we have seen sequential improvement in trends during the early part of 2021, the impact to the overall travel market, and our business, has continued. The full duration and total impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and it is difficult to predict how the recovery will unfold for the travel industry and, in particular, our business. Additionally, further health-related events, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues, and natural disasters, are examples of other events that could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Prior to the onset of COVID-19, we began to execute a cost savings initiative aimed at simplifying the organization and increasing efficiency. Following the onset of COVID-19, we accelerated execution on several of these cost savings initiatives and took additional actions to reduce costs to help mitigate the impact to demand from COVID-19 and reduce our monthly cash usage. While some cost actions during COVID-19 are temporary and intended to minimize cash usage during this disruption, we expect to continue to benefit from the majority of the savings when business conditions return to more normalized levels. Overall, we continue to expect annualized run-rate fixed cost savings of $700 to $750 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2019 exit rate, and we continue to evaluate additional opportunities to increase efficiency and improve operational effectiveness across the Company. In addition to the actions to reduce fixed costs, we are executing initiatives to reduce certain variable costs and improve our marketing efficiency. As a result of these cost savings initiatives, we expect Adjusted EBITDA margins to increase compared to historical levels when revenue returns to more normalized levels. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet are driving rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2019, approximately 49% of U.S., European and Latin American leisure and unmanaged corporate travel expenditures occurred online. As of January 2021, this figure was estimated to reach approximately 53% in 2022. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, have historically lagged behind that of the United States and Europe. These penetration rates increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which presents an attractive growth opportunity for our business, while also attracting many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, we see increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies such as Google, evidenced by continued product enhancements, including new trip planning features for users and the integration of its various travel products into the Google Travel offering, as well as further prioritizing its own products in search results. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (owned by Booking Holdings), trivago (in which Expedia Group owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools. Further, airlines and lodging companies are aggressively pursuing direct online distribution of their products and services. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Businesses such as Airbnb, Vrbo (previously HomeAway, which Expedia Group acquired in December 2015) and Booking.com (owned by Booking Holdings) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Finally, traditional consumer ecommerce and group buying websites expanded their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their websites. The online travel industry also saw the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia Group facilitates both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings with our hotel supply partners through both agency-only contracts as well as our hybrid Expedia 24 Table of Contents Traveler Preference (ETP) program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. In 2020, we shifted to managing our marketing investments holistically across the brand portfolio in our Retail segment to optimize results for the Company, and making decisions on a market by market and customer segment basis that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. Over time, intense competition historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. During 2020, we increased our focus on opportunities to differentiate brands across customer and geographic segments, increase marketing efficiency, drive a higher proportion of transactions through direct channels and ultimately improve the balance of transaction growth and profitability. Lodging Lodging includes hotel accommodations and alternative accommodations. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in the first three months of 2021, lodging accounted for 72%. As a result of the impact on travel demand from COVID-19, room nights declined 47% in the first three months of 2021 as compared to a decline of 55% in 2020 and growth of 11% in 2019. The timing of recovery in consumer sentiment on travel and on staying at hotels will be a factor in our level of room night growth, and as noted above, we expect that to vary by country. Average Daily Rates (ADRs) for rooms booked on Expedia Group websites decreased 1% in 2019, increased 3% in 2020 and increased 8% in the first three months of 2021. During 2020 and the early part of 2021, the year-over-year increase in ADRs for our Vrbo business remained elevated compared to years prior to the COVID-19 outbreak and Vrbo, which carries a higher ADR than hotels, accounted for a higher percentage of room nights due to the faster recovery in alternative accommodations during this period. This was partially offset by declines in hotel ADRs. The uncertain environment related to COVID-19, and the potential for a higher degree of discounting activity due to the lower travel demand, could result in continued hotel ADR declines for a period of time. Similarly, fluctuations in supply and demand for alternative accommodations, could impact ADRs for Vrbo. In addition, travel restrictions and shift in consumer behavior during COVID-19 that impact the mix of our lodging bookings across geographies and types of accommodations could impact total ADRs. Given these dynamics, it is difficult to predict ADR trends in the near-term. As of March 31, 2021, our global lodging marketplace had approximately 3 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings and approximately 880,000 hotels. Hotel. We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). After rolling out ETP globally over a period of several years, during which time we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, our relationships and overall economics with hotel supply partners have been broadly stable in recent years. As we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night and profitability. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, with certain travel restrictions and quarantine orders implemented due to COVID-19, current occupancy rates for hotels in the United States are at reduced levels and ADRs could decline for a period of time. In addition, other factors could pressure ADR trends, including the continued growth in hotel supply in recent years and the increase in alternative accommodation inventory. Further, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. Alternative Accommodations. With our acquisition of Vrbo (previously HomeAway) and all of its brands in December 2015, we expanded into the fast growing alternative accommodations market. Vrbo is a leader in this market and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia Group. Vrbo has transitioned from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. Vrbo offers hosts subscription-based listing or pay-per-booking service models. It also generates revenue from a traveler service fee for bookings. In addition, we have actively moved to integrate Vrbo listings into our global Retail services, as well as directly add alternative accommodation listings to our offerings, to position our key global brands to offer a full range of lodging options for consumers. 25 Table of Contents Air The airline industry has been dramatically impacted by COVID-19. As a result of the significantly reduced air travel demand due to government travel restrictions and the impact on consumer sentiment related to COVID-19, airlines have been operating with less capacity and passenger traffic has declined significantly. During the third and fourth quarter of 2020, air passenger traffic declines further moderated and remained stable, but continue to lag the recovery in lodging bookings. The recovery in air travel remains difficult to predict, and may not correlate with the recovery in lodging demand. According to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), air traveler 7-day average throughput declined 95% in April 2020 compared to prior year levels. The declines moderated to 60 to 65% in mid-October 2020 and, as of early April 2021, further moderated to down 40 to 45% compared to 2019 levels. In addition, there is significant correlation between airline revenue and fuel prices, and fluctuations in fuel prices generally take time to be reflected in air revenue. Given current volatility, it is uncertain how fuel prices could impact airfares. We could encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine, certain supply agreements renew, and as we continue to add airlines to ensure local coverage in new markets. Air ticket volumes decreased 50% during the first three months of 2021 compared to a decline of 63% in 2020 and an increase of 7% in 2019. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in the first three months of 2021, air accounted for 4%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch website, and Expedia Group Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In the first three months of 2021, we generated $88 million of advertising and media revenue, a 57% decline from the same period in 2020, representing 7% of our total worldwide revenue. Given the decline in travel demand related to COVID-19, online travel agencies have dramatically reduced marketing spend, including on trivago, and given the uncertain duration and impact of COVID-19 it is difficult to predict when spend will recover to normalized levels. In response, trivago has significantly reduced its marketing spend and taken additional actions to lower operating expenses. We expect trivago to continue to experience significant pressure on revenue and profit until online travel agencies and other hotel suppliers begin to see consumer demand that warrants an increase in marketing spend. Business Strategy As we endeavor to power global travel for everyone, everywhere our focus is to: leverage our brand and supply strength, and our platform, to provide greater services and value to our travelers, suppliers and business partners, and generate sustained, profitable growth. Leverage Brand and Supply Strength. We believe the strength of our brand portfolio and enhancements to product and service offerings, which when combined with our global scale and broad based supply, drive increasing value to customers and customer demand. With our significant global audience of travelers, and our deep and broad selection of travel products, there is a rich interplay between supply and demand in our global marketplace that helps us provide value to both travelers planning trips and supply partners wanting to grow their business through a better understanding of travel retailing and consumer demand in addition to reaching consumers in markets beyond their reach. Our multi-brand strategy and deep product and supply footprint allows us to tailor offerings to target different types of consumers and travel needs, employ geographic segmentation in markets around the world, and leverage brand differentiation, among other benefits. Additionally, we know that consumers typically visit multiple travel websites prior to booking travel, and having a multi-brand strategy increases the likelihood that those consumers will visit one or more of our websites. We also market to consumers through a variety of channels, including internet search, metasearch and social media websites, and having multiple brands appear in search results also increases the likelihood of attracting new visitors. Leverage Our Platform. During 2020, Expedia Group shifted to a platform operating model with more centralized technology, product, data engineering and data science teams building services and capabilities that are leveraged across our business units to serve our end customers and provide value-add services to our travel suppliers. This model enables us to deliver more scalable services and operate more efficiently. All of our transaction-based businesses share and benefit from our platform infrastructure, including customer servicing and support, data centers, search capabilities and transaction processing functions, including payment processing and fraud operations. As we continue to evolve our platform infrastructure, our focus is on developing technical capabilities that support various travel products while using common applications and frameworks. We believe this strategy will enable us to: build in parallel because of simpler, standard architecture; ship products faster; create more innovative solutions; and achieve greater scale. Over time, as we enable domains around application development frameworks, we believe we can unlock additional platform service opportunities beyond our internal brands and other business travel partners. 26 Table of Contents Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel services, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized as the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks for our hotel business and can be several months or more for our alternative accommodations business. Historically, Vrbo has seen seasonally stronger bookings in the first quarter of the year, with the relevant stays occurring during the peak summer travel months. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, have typically been experienced in the second half of the year, particularly the fourth quarter, as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we typically increase marketing during the busy booking period for spring, summer and winter holiday travel. As a result on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The growth of our international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, including the growth of Vrbo, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Impacts from COVID-19 disrupted our typical seasonal pattern for bookings, revenue, profit and cash flows during 2020. Significantly higher cancellations and reduced booking volumes, particularly in the first half of 2020, resulted in material operating losses and negative cash flow. Although travel volumes remain materially lower than historic levels, booking and travel trends normalized during the second half of 2020, and during first quarter 2021 have increased sequentially and from the end of first quarter 2020 levels, resulting in working capital benefits and positive cash flow more akin to typical historical trends. It remains difficult to forecast the seasonality for the upcoming quarters, given the uncertainty related to the duration of the impact from COVID-19 and the shape and timing of any sustained recovery. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has created and may continue to create significant uncertainty in macroeconomic conditions, which may cause further business disruptions and adversely impact our results of operations. As a result, many of our estimates and assumptions required increased judgment and carry a higher degree of variability and volatility. As events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, our estimates may change materially in future periods For additional information about our other critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 as well as updates in the current fiscal year provided in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes Legal Proceedings. We are currently involved in ten lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and/or ordinances at issue do not apply to us or the services we provide, namely the facilitation of travel planning and reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations 27 Table of Contents For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $57 million as of March 31, 2021, and $58 million as of December 31, 2020. Certain jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Maine, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales or other taxes for hotel and/or other accommodations and/or car rental. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, we have entered into voluntary collection agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to voluntarily collect and remit taxes to state and/or local taxing jurisdictions. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, West Virginia, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, Maryland, Kentucky, Maine, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York and the District of Columbia, as well as certain other jurisdictions. Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with various tax authorities, some of which, including the City of Los Angeles regarding hotel occupancy taxes, may impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. Segments We have the following reportable segments: Retail, B2B, and trivago. Our Retail segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of consumer brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Vrbo, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, ebookers, CheapTickets, Hotwire.com, CarRentals.com and Expedia Cruises. Our B2B segment is comprised of our Expedia Business Services organization including Expedia Partner Solutions, which offers private label and co-branded products to make travel services available to travelers through third-party company branded websites, and Egencia, a full-service travel management company that provides travel services to businesses and their corporate customers. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked for agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are reduced for cancellations and refunds. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Gross bookings $ 15,422 $ 17,885 (14) % Revenue margin (1) 8.1 % 12.4 % ____________________________ 28 Table of Contents (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, gross bookings decreased 14%, compared to the same period in 2020, resulting from the continued impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Trends for our lodging, air and other travel products all improved sequentially from the fourth quarter of 2020, with lodging bookings experiencing year-over-year growth in the first quarter of 2021. Revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was higher than in the current period due in part to significant lodging cancellations, which reduced gross bookings, creating an unusual mix of bookings and revenue in the prior year period. Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Retail $ 1,025 $ 1,582 (35) % B2B 184 485 (62) % trivago (Third-party revenue) 37 103 (64) % Corporate (Bodybuilding.com) 39 N/A Total revenue $ 1,246 $ 2,209 (44) % Revenue decreased 44% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. Our Retail segment revenue declined 35%, B2B segment revenue declined 62% and trivago segment revenue declined 64% in the quarter. The slower decline in Retail segment revenue reflects improvement in leisure travel trends, particularly in North America, while the B2B and trivago segments continue to be impacted by the slower recovery for corporate travel demand and advertising spend, respectively. Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Service Type Lodging $ 903 $ 1,542 (41) % Air 50 109 (55) % Advertising and media (1) 88 203 (57) % Other 205 355 (42) % Total revenue $ 1,246 $ 2,209 (44) % ____________________________ (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Lodging revenue decreased 41% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, on a 47% decrease in room nights stayed, partially offset by a 10% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night benefited from an increase in the percentage of stayed room nights contributed by alternative accommodations, which has a higher revenue per room night than the rest of our lodging business. Air revenue decreased 55% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, reflecting a 50% decline in tickets sold and a 10% decline in revenue per ticket. Advertising and media revenue decreased 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, due to declines at trivago and Expedia Group Media Solutions. All other revenue, which includes car rental, insurance, 29 Table of Contents destination services, fee revenue related to our corporate travel business and Bodybuilding.com (through its sale in May 2020), decreased 42% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 796 $ 1,340 (41) % Agency 323 562 (43) % Advertising, media and other 127 307 (59) % Total revenue $ 1,246 $ 2,209 (44) % Merchant revenue decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to the decrease in merchant hotel revenue driven by a decrease in room nights stayed, partially offset by an increase in Vrbo merchant alternative accommodations revenue. Agency revenue decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to the decline in agency hotel and air revenue. Advertising, media and other decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to declines in advertising revenue. In the below discussion, we reclassified certain prior period information to conform to the current period presentation primarily related to the classification of licensing and maintenance costs within our operating expenses. For additional information, see Note 1 Basis of Presentation in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 201 $ 475 (58) % Personnel and overhead 110 154 (28) % Total cost of revenue $ 311 $ 629 (51) % % of revenue 25.0 % 28.5 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of direct costs to support our customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors; credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks; and other costs, primarily including data center and cloud costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain transactional level taxes, costs related to Bodybuilding.com during our period of ownership as well as related personnel and overhead costs, including stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue decreased $318 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to a decrease in bad debt expense, which was significantly elevated in the first quarter of 2020 due to the initial impacts of COVID-19, a decline in merchant fees resulting from lower transaction volumes, decreased customer service and personnel costs, and lower cloud expense. The three months ended March 31, 2020 also included costs related to Bodybuilding.com, which was disposed of in the second quarter of 2020. 30 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 487 $ 954 (49) % Indirect costs 177 251 (30) % Total selling and marketing $ 664 $ 1,205 (45) % % of revenue 53.3 % 54.5 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization, as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $541 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to a decrease in direct costs driven by a significant reduction in marketing spend related to the impact on travel demand from COVID-19 as well as lower personnel costs in connection with previously announced cost savings initiatives. Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 174 $ 224 (22) % Other 73 91 (20) % Total technology and content $ 247 $ 315 (22) % % of revenue 19.8 % 14.3 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, including stock-based compensation, as well as other costs including cloud expense and licensing and maintenance expense. Technology and content expense decreased $68 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily reflecting lower personnel and related costs in connection with previously announced cost savings initiatives. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 120 $ 133 (10) % Professional fees and other 36 52 (32) % Total general and administrative $ 156 $ 185 (16) % % of revenue 12.5 % 8.4 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions and related stock-based compensation as well as fees for external professional services. General and administrative expense decreased $29 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, mainly due to a decrease in personnel costs in connection with previously announced savings 31 Table of Contents initiatives and lower professional fees. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in stock-based compensation of $14 million. Depreciation and Amortization Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Depreciation $ 182 $ 185 (2) % Amortization of intangible assets 27 44 (37) % Total depreciation and amortization $ 209 $ 229 (9) % Depreciation decreased $3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $17 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets as well as the impact of definite-lived intangible impairments in the prior year. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During the three months ended March 31, 2020, as a result of the significant negative impact related to COVID-19, which had a severe effect on the entire global travel industry, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $765 million as well as intangible asset impairment charges of $121 million. See Note 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ (1) $ (21) (97) % % of revenue % (0.9) % Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, there were immaterial changes to our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we recorded a $25 million gain in relation to a legal settlement, which was partially offset by changes in our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In 2020, we committed to restructuring actions intended to simplify our businesses and improve operational efficiencies, which have resulted in headcount reductions and office consolidations. As a result, we recognized $29 million and $75 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect total reorganization charges primarily in the remainder of 2021 of approximately $25 million. However, we continue to actively evaluate additional cost reduction efforts and should we make decisions in future periods to take further actions we will incur additional reorganization charges. 32 Table of Contents Operating Loss Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Operating loss $ (369) $ (1,294) (72) % % of revenue (29.6) % (58.6) % During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we had operating losses of $369 million, compared to operating losses of $1.3 billion for the same period in 2020. The lower operating losses were primarily due to the prior year goodwill and intangible impairment charges mentioned. Adjusted EBITDA by Segment Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Retail $ 94 $ 22 316 % B2B (60) 26 N/A trivago (4) (1) 189 % Unallocated overhead costs (Corporate) (1) (88) (123) (28) % Total Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ (58) $ (76) (24) % ____________________________ (1) Includes immaterial operating results of Bodybuilding.com through its sale in May 2020. (2) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA below for more information. Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment operating metric. See Note 11 Segment Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on intersegment transactions, unallocated overhead costs and for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by segment to net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. for the periods presented above. Our Retail segment Adjusted EBITDA increased $72 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to a decline in operating costs as a percentage of revenue in the current period as a result of cost saving initiatives implemented in 2020. Our B2B and trivago segment Adjusted EBITDA both declined during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, resulting from impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic as revenue decreased for the current year period. Unallocated overhead costs decreased $35 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily due to lower general and administrative expenses. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 2 $ 10 (83) % Interest expense (98) (50) 96 % Loss on debt extinguishment (280) N/A Interest income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, as a result of lower rates of return. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period in 2020, primarily as a result of higher average debt balances due to additional debt issued since May 2020. As a result of the debt refinancing transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment of $280 million, which included the payment of early payment premiums and fees as well as the write-off 33 Table of Contents of unamortized debt issuance costs. See Note 4 Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ (11) $ 45 Gains (losses) on minority equity investments, net 8 (188) Other (2) (2) Total other, net $ (5) $ (145) During the three months ended March 31, 2020, losses on minority equity investments, net included $113 million of impairment losses related to a minority investment as well as $75 million of mark-to-market losses related to our publicly traded marketable equity investment, Despegar. See Note 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (169) $ (82) 105 % Effective tax rate 22.5 % 5.6 % We typically determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. We record any changes affecting the estimated annual tax rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete items. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and difficulty forecasting the fiscal year 2020 mix of income by jurisdiction, we determined the estimated annual effective rate method would not provide a reliable estimate of the Companys overall annual effective tax rate. As such, we calculated the tax provision using the actual effective rate in the prior year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, the effective tax rate was a 22.5% benefit on a pre-tax loss, compared to a 5.6% benefit on pre-tax loss for the three months ended March 31, 2020. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily due to nondeductible impairments and a valuation allowance recorded in the prior year period. We are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax filings are regularly examined by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. During the fourth quarter of 2019, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued final adjustments related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for our 2011 to 2013 tax years. The proposed adjustments would increase our U.S. taxable income by $696 million, which would result in federal tax of approximately $244 million, subject to interest. We do not agree with the position of the IRS. We filed a protest with the IRS for our 2011 to 2013 tax years and Appeals returned our case to Exam for further review. We are also under examination by the IRS for our 2014 to 2016 tax years. Subsequent years remain open to examination by the IRS. We do not anticipate a significant impact to our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months related to these years. 34 Table of Contents Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adjusted EBITDA is among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a description of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included above, in the Legal Proceedings section, as well as the notes to the financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measure used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group adjusted for (1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests; (2) provision for income taxes; (3) total other expenses, net; (4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (5) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, if any, and (iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, if any; (6) certain other items, including restructuring; (7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other; (8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and (9) depreciation. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 (In millions) Net loss attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. $ (578) $ (1,301) Net loss attributable to non-controlling interests (3) (96) Provision for income taxes (169) (82) Total other expense, net 381 185 Operating loss (369) (1,294) Gain (loss) on revenue hedges related to revenue recognized (9) (6) Restructuring and related reorganization charges 29 75 Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other (1) (21) Stock-based compensation 83 55 Depreciation and amortization 209 229 Impairment of goodwill 765 Impairment of intangible assets 121 Adjusted EBITDA $ (58) $ (76) 35 Table of Contents Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are typically cash flows generated from operations, cash available under our credit facilities as well as our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $4.3 billion and $3.4 billion at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. As of March 31, 2021, the total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $821 million ($572 million in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and $249 million in majority-owned subsidiaries). Our credit facilities were essentially untapped at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Managing our balance sheet prudently and maintaining appropriate liquidity are high priorities during the current COVID-19 pandemic. In 2020, in order to best position the Company to navigate our temporary working capital changes and depressed revenue, we took a number of actions to bolster our liquidity and preserve financial flexibility. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we continued these actions, including suspension of our share repurchases and quarterly common stock dividends as well as completed the following: 0% Convertible Notes Issuance. On February 19, 2021, we completed our private placement of $1 billion aggregate principal amount of unsecured 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 (the Convertible Notes). The net proceeds from the issuance of the Convertible Notes was approximately $983 million after deducting debt issuance costs. The Convertible Notes will mature on February 15, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. The Convertible Notes will not bear regular interest. The Convertible Notes have an initial conversion rate of 3.9212 shares of common stock of Expedia Group with a par value $0.0001 per share, per $1,000 principal amount of Convertible Notes, which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $255.02 per share of our common stock. The conversion rate is subject to adjustment from time to time upon the occurrence of certain events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of stock dividends and payment of cash dividends. 2.95% Senior Notes Issuance. On March 3, 2021, we privately placed $1 billion of senior unsecured notes that are due in March 2031 that bear interest at 2.95% (the 2.95% Notes). The 2.95% Notes were issued at a price of 99.081% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears in March and September of each year, beginning September 15, 2021, and the interest rate is subject to adjustment based on certain ratings events. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2.95% Notes was approximately $982 million after deducting the discount and debt issuance costs. Extinguishment of High Cost Debt. On March 3, 2021, we used the net proceeds from the Convertible Notes and 2.95% Notes and completed the redemption of all of our outstanding 7.0% Notes as well as settled the tender offer to purchase $956 million in aggregate principal of our 6.25% Notes, which resulted in the recognition of a loss on debt extinguishment of $280 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021 comprised of early payment premiums and fees associated with the tender offer as well as the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs. In addition, on May 6, 2021, we submitted notice of prepayment of 50% of the outstanding Series A Preferred Stock, which we expect to be completed on May 20, 2021 at a price equal to 103% of the Preference Amount, plus accrued and unpaid distributions as to the redemption date using cash on-hand. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of March 31, 2021, Moodys rating was Baa3 with an outlook of negative, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of negative and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of negative. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets and interest rates on the 6.25% Notes issued in May 2020, the 3.6% and 4.625% Notes issued in July 2020 as well as the 2.95% Notes issued in March 2021 will increase, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facilities and outstanding debt as detailed in Note 4 Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant lodging business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. Typically, the seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings have affected the timing of our annual cash flows. Generally, during the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally 36 Table of Contents exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern typically reverses and cash flows are typically negative. During 2020, impacts of COVID-19 disrupted our typical working capital trends. Significantly higher cancellations and reduced booking volumes, particularly in the first half of 2020, resulted in material operating losses and negative cash flow. Although travel volumes remain materially lower than historic levels, booking and travel trends normalized during the second half of 2020, and during first quarter 2021 have increased sequentially and from the end of first quarter 2020 levels, resulting in working capital benefits and positive cash flow in the current period more akin to typical historical trends. However, it remains difficult to forecast the working capital trends for the upcoming quarters, given the uncertainty related to the duration of the impact from COVID-19 and the shape and timing of any sustained recovery. Prior to COVID-19, we embarked on an ambitious cost reduction initiative to simplify the organization and increase efficiency. In response to COVID-19, we took several additional actions to further reduce costs to help mitigate the financial impact from COVID-19 and continue to improve our long-term cost structure. We temporarily halted construction on our new headquarters during the initial quarantine order in March 2020 but restarted construction later in the year. We expect to spend approximately $900 million in total for the project. Of the total, approximately $850 million was spent between 2016 and 2020 and approximately $13 million was spent during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Due to the delays related to COVID-19, we now expect the project to be substantially complete in the second quarter of 2021. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,170 $ (784) $ 2,954 Investing activities (180) 32 (212) Financing activities 210 1,517 (1,307) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents (73) (141) 68 For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by operating activities was $2.2 billion compared to cash used in operations of $784 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. In the prior year period, impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a significant use of cash to fund working capital changes and operating losses compared to a current year cash benefit from working capital. The largest driver of the swing in working capital relates to a significant use of cash in the prior year for deferred merchant bookings as refunds for cancelled bookings exceeded new bookings compared to an increase from deferred merchant bookings in the current year period. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $180 million ,which primarily consisted of capital expenditures, compared to cash provided by investing activities of $32 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of net sales and maturities of investments of $300 million, largely offset by capital expenditures. Capital expenditures were lower in the current year period, including those related to our new headquarters as our construction winds down. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities primarily included approximately $2 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of Convertible Notes and 2.95% Notes issued in February and March 2020, respectively, as well as $269 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. These sources of cash were largely offset by payments of approximately $2 billion related to the extinguishment of debt discussed above as well as $55 million of cash paid for treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments. For the three months ended March 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities primarily included $1.9 billion of proceeds from our revolving credit facility draw as well as $86 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans, partially offset by cash paid to acquire shares of $410 million and cash common stock dividend payments of $48 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we accumulated $28 million (or $23.42 per share of Series A Preferred Stock) of dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock. At this time, we do not expect to make future quarterly dividend payments on our common stock. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in a decrease of our cash and restricted cash balances denominated in foreign currency during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 of $73 million and $141 million reflecting a net depreciation in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar during the periods. 37 Table of Contents In our opinion, our liquidity position provides sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable cash needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Summarized Financial Information for Guarantors and the Issuer of Guaranteed Securities Summarized financial information of Expedia Group, Inc. (the Parent) and our subsidiaries that are guarantors of our debt facility and instruments (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) is shown below on a combined basis as the Obligor Group. The debt facility and instruments are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees are full, unconditional, joint and several with the exception of certain customary automatic subsidiary release provisions. In this summarized financial information of the Obligor Group, all intercompany balances and transactions between the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated and all information excludes subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors of our debt facility and instruments, including earnings from and investments in these entities. March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 (In millions) Combined Balance Sheets Information: Current Assets (1) $ 7,925 $ 5,076 Non-Current Assets 10,461 10,245 Current Liabilities 7,478 4,595 Non-Current Liabilities 9,038 8,804 Series A Preferred Stock 1,022 1,022 Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Combined Statements of Operations Information: Revenue $ 1,067 $ 4,229 Operating loss (2) (287) (1,884) Net loss (412) (1,890) Net loss attributable to Obligors (439) (1,965) (1) Current assets include intercompany receivables with non-guarantors of $1.4 billion as of March 31, 2021 and $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. (2) Operating loss includes intercompany expenses with non-guarantors of $171 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and $600 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2020. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. 38 Table of Contents Part I.