Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations inItem 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8 of this Report. 8 Table of Contents Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive global environment and we may be unable to compete successfully with our current or future competitors. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive. We compete with both established and emerging online and traditional providers of travel-related services, including online travel agencies; alternative accommodation providers; wholesalers and tour operators; travel product suppliers (including hotels, airlines and car rental companies); search engines and large online portal websites; travel metasearch services; corporate travel management service providers; mobile platform travel applications; social media websites; eCommerce and group buying websites; B2B businesses and other participants in the travel industry. In addition, technological developments in generative artificial intelligence ("AI") tools may be increasingly used to create competing offerings such as AI powered digital assistants, which may further increase competition. Online travel agencies and alternative accommodations providers. In particular, we face intense competition from other OTAs and alternative accommodation providers in many regions, such as Booking Holdings (through its Booking.com, Priceline.com and Agoda.com brands), Airbnb, and Trip.com, any of which may have more favorable offerings for travelers or suppliers, including pricing and supply breadth. Airbnb, Booking Holdings and other providers of alternative accommodations provide an alternative to hotel rooms and compete with alternative accommodation properties available through Expedia Group brands, including Vrbo. The continued growth of alternative accommodation providers could affect overall travel patterns generally, and the demand for our services specifically, in facilitating reservations at hotels and alternative accommodations. In addition, our competitors are also increasingly expanding the range of travel services they offer, thereby further intensifying the competitive environment, with Airbnb looking to expand into tours, activities, hotel and flight bookings, and Booking.com expanding its flight booking services. Travel suppliers. Travel suppliers, such as hotels, airlines and rental car companies, may offer products and services on more favorable terms to consumers who transact directly with them. Many of these competitors have been steadily focusing on increasing online demand on their own websites and mobile applications in lieu of third-party distributors through favorable rates and bonus or loyalty points for direct bookings, surcharges for booking outside of the suppliers own website or preferred booking technologies, suppliers combining to establish a single search platform and other tactics to drive traffic directly to supplier websites. Search engines and large online portal websites. We also face intense competition from Google and other search engines. There could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance to the extent that Google continues to use its market position to disintermediate online travel agencies through its own offerings or capabilities, refer customers directly to suppliers or other favored partners, increase the cost of traffic directed to our websites, offer the ability to transact on its own website, or promote its own competing products by placing its own offerings at the top of organic search results. In recent years, search engines have increased their focus on acquiring or launching travel products that provide increasingly comprehensive travel planning content and direct booking capabilities, comparable to OTAs. For example, Google has continued to add features and functionality to its Google Travel, Google Flights, Hotel Ads and alternative accommodations metasearch products. In addition, Google may be able to leverage the data they collect on users to the detriment of us and other OTAs. Search engines may also continue to expand their voice and AI capabilities. To the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic or the cost of acquiring such traffic, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our brands, or brands in which we hold a significant ownership position, including trivago, compete for advertising revenue with these search engines, as well as with large internet portal sites that offer advertising opportunities for travel-related companies. Competition could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. Travel metasearch websites. Travel metasearch websites, including Kayak.com (a subsidiary of Booking Holdings), trivago (a majority-owned subsidiary of Expedia Group), TripAdvisor, Skyscanner and Qunar (both are subsidiaries of Trip.com), aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites. In addition, some metasearch websites have looked to add various forms of direct or assisted booking functionality to their sites in direct competition with certain of our brands. To the extent metasearch websites limit our participation within their search results, or consumers utilize a metasearch website for travel services and bookings instead of ours, our traffic-generating arrangements could be affected in a negative manner, or we may be required to increase our marketing costs to maintain share, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of our majority ownership interest in trivago, we also compete more directly with other metasearch engines and content aggregators for advertising revenue. To the extent that trivagos ability to aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites is hampered, whether due to its affiliation with us or otherwise, or if OTA advertisers or suppliers choose to 9 Table of Contents limit their participation in trivagos metasearch marketplace, trivagos business and therefore our results of operations could be adversely affected and the value of our investment in trivago could be negatively impacted. Corporate travel management service providers. By virtue of our minority ownership stake in, and long-term supply agreement with, GBT, we compete indirectly with online and traditional corporate travel providers, as well as vendors of corporate travel and expense management software and services. Our brands also compete to attract unmanaged business travelers. Mobile and other platform travel applications. The demand for and functionality of smartphones, tablet computers and home assistants continue to grow and improve significantly. If we are unable to offer innovative, user-friendly, feature-rich mobile applications and mobile-responsive websites for our travel services, along with effective marketing and advertising, or if our mobile applications and mobile-responsive websites are not used by consumers, we could lose share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Applications and social media websites. Applications and social media websites, including Facebook, Instagram and TikTok, continue to develop search functionality for data included within their websites and mobile applications, which may in the future develop into alternative research and booking resources for travelers, resulting in additional competition. eCommerce and group buying websites. Traditional consumer eCommerce platforms, including Amazon and Alibaba, and group buying websites have periodically undertaken efforts to expand their local offerings into the travel market. For example, traditional consumer eCommerce and group buying websites may add hotel offers or other travel services to their sites. To the extent our travelers use these websites, these websites may create additional competition and could negatively affect our businesses. B2B businesses. Our B2B business faces competition from other online travel agencies with B2B offerings as well as other competitors such as independent B2B businesses. If we are unable to deliver competitive supply, products, features and commercial terms to our B2B partners, this may result in slower growth and/or a loss of share. Other participants in the travel industry. Other participants or existing competitors may begin to offer or expand other services to the travel industry that compete with the services we offer to our travelers, our travel industry affiliates and partners, or our corporate clients. For example, ride-sharing apps increasingly compete with traditional car rental services and are adding other transportation and experience offerings, and travel services continue to proliferate. To the extent any of these services gain market share over time, it may create additional competition and could negatively affect our businesses. In general, increased competition has resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced margins, as well as loss of travelers, transactions and brand recognition and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or offer differentiated products and services to our travelers. Increasing competition from current and emerging competitors, the introduction of new technologies and the continued expansion of existing technologies, such as AI, metasearch and other search engine technologies, may force us to make changes to our business models, which could affect our financial performance and liquidity. Some of our competitors may also have other significant advantages, such as greater financial resources or name recognition, more favorable corporate structures, or a broader global presence, among others. Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our business and financial performance are affected by the overall health of the worldwide travel industry. Most recently, the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to contain it severely restricted the level of economic activity around the world, had an unprecedented negative impact on the global travel industry, and materially impacted our business, financial performance and liquidity position, as well as those of many of the partners on which our business relies. Factors beyond our control that could materially and adversely affect the travel industry in general and our business in particular include: adverse macroeconomic conditions, such as slow growth or recession, high unemployment, inflation, tighter credit, higher interest rates, heightened bankruptcies or liquidations, significant changes in oil prices, and currency fluctuations; political instability, including increased incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, and geopolitical conflicts (such as the war in Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war); major public health issues, including pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic; fluctuations in hotel supply, occupancy and Average Daily Rates ("ADRs"); changes in airline capacity and airline ticket prices; the imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities; 10 Table of Contents extreme weather or natural disasters, including hurricanes, fires, floods, and droughts (the impacts and frequency of which could be further exacerbated by climate change) and resultant damage, including property destruction and prolonged loss of utilities; continued air carrier and hotel chain consolidation, travel strikes, trade disputes, labor unrest, or labor shortages; travel-related accidents or grounding of aircraft due to safety concerns; and travel bans, changes to visa and immigration requirements or border control policies. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers. Any associated decrease in demand, depending on its scope and duration, together with any future issues affecting travel safety, could significantly and adversely affect our business, working capital and financial performance over the short and long-term. For example, during 2024, Hurricanes Helene and Milton negatively impacted our financial results for the third and fourth fiscal quarters, respectively. In addition, the disruption of the existing travel plans of a significant number of travelers upon the occurrence of certain of these events, such as severe weather conditions, fires, actual or threatened terrorist activity, war or travel-related health events, could result in significant additional costs and decrease our revenues leading to constrained liquidity, particularly if we, as we often have done historically in the case of severe weather conditions and travel-related health events, provide relief to affected travelers by refunding the price or fees associated with airline tickets, hotel reservations and other travel products and services. Our business depends on our relationships with travel suppliers and other B2B partners. An important component of our business success depends on our ability to maintain and expand relationships with travel suppliers (including owners and managers of alternative accommodation properties), GDS partners and B2B partners. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from compensation negotiated with travel suppliers, in particular lodging suppliers, airlines and GDS partners for bookings made through our channels. We typically negotiate or renegotiate numerous supplier contracts each year. No assurances can be given that travel suppliers will elect to participate in our platform, or that our compensation, access to inventory or access to inventory at competitive rates will not be further reduced or eliminated in the future, or that travel suppliers will not reduce the cost of their products or services (for example, ADRs or ticket prices); attempt to implement costly direct connections; charge us for or otherwise restrict access to content; increase credit card fees or fees for other services; fail to provide us with accurate booking information or otherwise take actions that would increase our operating expenses. Likewise, no assurance can be given that our current B2B partners will continue to participate in our platform or that our compensation will not be reduced. Any of these actions, or other similar actions, could reduce our revenue and margins thereby adversely affecting our business and financial performance. Financial Risks We may experience constraints in our liquidity due to factors out of our control and may be unable to access capital when necessary or desirable, either of which could harm our financial position. If our liquidity is materially diminished, as it was during the COVID-19 pandemic, we may not be able to timely pay debts, leases, or comply with material provisions of our contractual obligations. Although our cash flows from operations and available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments to date, we cannot predict future outcomes if the travel industry were to experience a significant decline or disruption. Our indebtedness, the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, and market conditions may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms to meet potential future liquidity needs. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, declines in seasonal liquidity and capital provided by our merchant hotel business, which has historically provided a meaningful portion of our operating cash flow and is dependent on several factors, including the rate of growth of our merchant hotel business and the relative growth of businesses which consume rather than generate working capital, such as our agency hotel, and advertising businesses, and payment terms with suppliers. If, as was the case during the COVID-19 pandemic, our merchant hotel business declines, it would likely result in further pressure on our working capital cash balances, cash flow over time and liquidity. Our ability to raise financing depends in significant measure on characteristics of the capital and credit markets and liquidity factors over which we exert no control. Due to uncertainty in the capital and credit markets, we cannot guarantee that sufficient financing will be available on desirable terms, or any terms, to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or other actions or that our counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. In addition, any downgrade of our debt ratings by Standard & Poors, Moodys Investor Service, Fitch or similar ratings agencies, deterioration of our financial condition, increase in general interest rate levels and credit spreads or overall 11 Table of Contents weakening in the credit markets could increase our cost of capital (including, with respect to ratings downgrades, the interest rate applicable to certain of our outstanding senior notes). Our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2024, we have outstanding long-term indebtedness, excluding current maturities, with a face value of $6.3 billion and we have an essentially untapped revolving credit facility of $2.5 billion. Risks relating to our indebtedness include: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requiring us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments and other general corporate purposes; making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our businesses; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our businesses and the markets in which we operate; placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less levered; requiring us to use cash and/or issue shares of our Class A common stock to settle any conversion obligations of our convertible notes; diluting our earnings per share as a result of the conversion provisions in our convertible notes; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds or to borrow funds at desirable rates or terms we find acceptable. The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: cause or permit certain subsidiaries to borrow money, and guarantee or provide other support for indebtedness of third parties including guarantees; grant certain liens on certain of our assets; and enter into sale and leaseback transactions. In addition, our revolving credit facility contains a leverage ratio covenant, which effectively limits our ability to incur and/or maintain indebtedness. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility or any agreement governing our other indebtedness (including the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes) may result in an event of default under those agreements. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds. In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. The terms of our revolving credit facility and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. Operational Risks Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or other traffic-generating arrangements. We rely heavily on internet search engines, such as Google, through the purchase of travel-related keywords and through organic search, to generate a significant portion of the traffic to our websites and the websites of our affiliates. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a users search, such that the placement or cost of links to our websites and those of our affiliates can be negatively affected. In addition, a significant amount of traffic is directed to our websites and those of our affiliates through participation in pay-per-click and display advertising campaigns on search engines, including Google, and travel metasearch websites, including Kayak, TripAdvisor and trivago. Pricing and operating dynamics for these traffic sources can change rapidly, both technically and competitively. Moreover, a search or metasearch engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or display of results which could cause a website to place lower in search query results or inhibit participation in the search query results. In particular, Google has in the past, and may continue to in the future, change its algorithms or results in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking, paid and unpaid, of our websites, the websites of our affiliates and those of our third-party distribution partners, which adversely impacts our business and financial performance. Google has also increasingly added its own travel search functionality and content at the expense of traditional paid listings and organic search results, which may continue to 12 Table of Contents reduce the amount of traffic to our websites or those of our affiliates. If Google or other search or metasearch companies continue to pursue these or similar strategies, which is out of our control, or we do not successfully manage our paid and unpaid search strategies, we could face a significant decrease in traffic to our websites and/or increased costs related to replacing unpaid traffic with paid traffic. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We invest considerable financial and human resources in our brands in order to retain and expand our customer base in existing and emerging markets. We expect that the cost of maintaining and enhancing our brands will continue to increase and decisions we make on investing in brands could be less effective and costlier than expected. Certain online travel companies and metasearch websites have expanded their offline and digital advertising campaigns globally, increasing competition for share of voice, and we expect this activity to continue in the future. Our efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands may not be successful, may have unintended negative impacts, or, even if successful may not be cost-effective, or as efficient as they have been historically, resulting in less direct traffic and increased customer acquisition costs. Moreover, branding efforts with respect to some brands within the Expedia Group portfolio have in the past and may in the future result in marketing inefficiencies and negatively impact growth rates of other brands within our portfolio. In addition, our decisions over allocation of resources and choosing to invest in branding efforts for certain brands in our portfolio at the expense of not investing in, or reducing our investments in, other brands in our portfolio could have an overall negative financial impact. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We are subject to payments-related risks. Payments Regulations. The end-to-end payments processfrom accepting traveler payments through to paying suppliersfor a variety of payment methods is subject to various laws, rules, regulations, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including those governing cross-border and domestic money transmission and funds transfers; foreign exchange; payment services; and consumer protection. If we are found to be in violation of applicable payments laws or regulations, we could be subject to civil and criminal penalties, additional restrictive and burdensome requirements, or forced to cease or amend certain services we currently provide. Moreover, for existing and future payment options we offer to both our customers and suppliers, we are and may increasingly be subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes and new standards for payment security and strong customer authentication (SCA) that have and may increasingly make it more difficult and costly to carry out a payment transaction successfully. For example, the lack of industry-wide adoption of SCA may continue to add to the complexity of payment transactions for us and our suppliers. Third-Party Payment Service Providers. We rely on agreements with third-party service providers to process our voluminous customer credit and debit card transactions and for the facilitation of customer bookings of travel services from our travel suppliers. Upon the occurrence of specified events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition, these agreements may allow the payment processors to withhold a significant amount of our cash (referred to as a holdback), require us to otherwise post security equal to a portion of bookings that have been settled by a provider but where the traveler has have not traveled, or suspend their processing services. An imposition of a holdback or suspension of payment processing services by one or more of our payment processors could materially reduce our liquidity. Further, the software and services provided by payment processors may fail to meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised, or experience outages. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to process payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Payment Card Networks. The payment card networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, may increase the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction that accesses their networks and may impose special fees or assessments on such transactions. Certain of our payment processors also have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us, which could significantly increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, the payment card networks have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who process and accept payment cards and include payment card association operating rules, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, or the PCI DSS. Moreover, the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or reinterpret existing rules that we or our payment processors might find difficult or even impossible to comply with, or costly to implement. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and be liable for card issuing banks costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents We are subject to payments-related fraud risks. Our results of operations and financial positions have been negatively affected by our acceptance of fraudulent bookings made using payment options including credit and debit cards or fraudulently obtained loyalty points. We are sometimes held liable for accepting fraudulent bookings on our websites or other bookings for which payment is subsequently disputed by our customers both of which lead to the reversal of payments received by us for such bookings (referred to as a charge-back). In addition, the payment card networks have rules around acceptable charge-back ratios. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting charge-backs. Our ability to detect and combat fraudulent schemes, which have become increasingly common and sophisticated, may be negatively impacted by the adoption of new payment methods, the emergence and innovation of new technology platforms (such as historically occurred with the introduction of smartphones, tablet computers and in-home assistants), and our global expansion, including into markets with a history of elevated fraudulent activity. In addition, we have not broadly adopted certain protective capabilities across our platform, such as mobile application-based multi-factor authentication or third-party identify verification, which approach could result in significantly increased fraudulent activity on our platform in the future. If we are unable to effectively combat fraudulent bookings on our websites or mobile applications or if we otherwise experience increased levels of charge backs, we may also be subject to significant fines and higher transaction fees or payment card networks may revoke our access to their networks meaning we would be unable to continue to accept card payments, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial positions. In addition, we may be subject to fraudulent supplier schemes. For example, when onboarding suppliers to our websites, we may fail to identify falsified or stolen supplier credentials, which may result in fraudulent bookings or unauthorized access to personal or confidential information of users of our websites and mobile applications. A fraudulent supplier scheme could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and could cause users of our websites and mobile applications to lose confidence in the quality of our services. The rapid evolution and increased adoption of AI technologies may increase the risk of fraudulent bookings and fraudulent supplier scheme risks. Any of these events could have a significant negative effect on the value of our brands, which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. We work closely with various business partners and rely on third-parties for many systems and services, and therefore could be harmed by their activities. We have numerous significant commercial arrangements with business partners, and we rely on third-party service providers for a broad ranges of key services, including both external, customer-facing services such as customer support and booking fulfillment and internal services related to our operations, technology development and infrastructure. If these partners or service providers fail to meet our requirements or legal or regulatory requirements, it could damage our reputation, make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our business, or expose us to liability for their actions. Likewise, if one of our third-party service providers were to cease operations, face financial distress or other business disruption, we could suffer increased costs and disruption to our own business operations until an equivalent alternative could be sourced or developed, any of which could also have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. Our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States and intend to continue to expand our international presence. Laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses or our failure to adapt our practices, systems, processes and business models effectively to the traveler and supplier preferences (as well as the regulatory and tax landscapes) of each country into which we expand, could slow our growth or prevent our ability to compete effectively in certain markets. For example, to compete in certain international markets we have in the past, and may in the future, adopt locally-preferred payment methods, which has increased our costs and instances of fraud. Certain international markets in which we operate have lower margins than more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins if the proportion of our overall revenue from these markets grow over time. Additionally, some countries have enacted or are considering enacting various regulations, such as data localization laws, that make competition by foreign companies costly or operationally difficult in those markets. In addition to the risks outlined elsewhere in this section, our international operations are also subject to a number of other risks, including: exposure to local economic or political instability and threatened or actual acts of terrorism; compliance with U.S. and non-U.S. regulatory laws and requirements relating to anti-corruption, antitrust or competition, economic sanctions, data content and privacy, consumer protection, employment and labor laws, health and safety, information reporting and advertising and promotions; 14 Table of Contents weaker enforcement of our contractual and intellectual property rights; lower levels of credit card usage and increased payment and fraud risk; longer payment cycles, and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; preferences by local populations for local providers; restrictions on, or adverse tax and other consequences related to the repatriation of cash, the withdrawal of non-U.S. investments, cash balances and earnings, as well as restrictions on our ability to invest in our operations in certain countries; changes to trade policy or agreements that limit our ability to offer, or adversely affect demand for, our products and services; our ability to support technologies or marketing channels that may be prevalent in a particular international market and used by local competitors, but are not scalable for an international company offering services in many markets around the world; and uncertainty regarding liability for services and content, including uncertainty as a result of local laws and lack of precedent. Acquisitions, investments, divestitures or significant commercial arrangements could result in operating and financial difficulties. We have acquired, invested in, divested or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of businesses in the past, and our future success may depend, in part, on such transactions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Certain financial and operational risks related to such transactions that may have a material impact on our business are: diversion of managements attention or other resources from our existing businesses; use of cash resources and incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities in funding and after consummating acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; amortization expenses related to acquired intangible assets and other adverse accounting consequences, including changes in fair value of contingent consideration; expected and unexpected costs incurred in pursuing acquisitions, if unsuccessful could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, customers, vendors and affiliates of our business and the acquired business; the assumption of known and unknown debt and other liabilities and obligations of the acquired company; difficulties and expenses in integrating or separating, as the case may be, the operations, products, technology, privacy protection systems, information systems or personnel of an acquired or divested company, including in the case of a divestiture our reliance on performance by the acquiring company; failure of the acquired company to achieve anticipated integration synergies, traffic, transactions, revenues, earnings or cash flows or to retain key management or employees; failure to generate adequate returns on our acquisitions and investments, or returns in excess of alternative uses of capital; entrance into markets or segments in which we have no direct prior experience resulting in increased complexity in our business; challenges relating to the structure of an investment, such as governance, accountability and decision-making conflicts that may arise in the context of a joint venture or other majority ownership investments; costs associated with remediating fraud, information security, or other similar incidents at an acquired company; impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets such as trademarks or other intellectual property arising from our acquisitions; 15 Table of Contents costs associated with litigation or other claims arising in connection with the acquired company; increased or unexpected costs or delays to obtain governmental or regulatory approvals for acquisitions; divestitures of functions, assets or operations may impede our ability to successfully operate our business, result in liability to purchasers, or consume significant resources; divested assets may be worth more than the consideration we receive in respect thereof; increased competition amongst potential acquirers for acquisition targets could result in a material increase in the purchase price for such targets or otherwise limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; increased regulatory scrutiny of our core or acquired business; and adverse market reaction to divestitures, acquisitions or investments or failure to consummate such transactions. Moreover, we often rely heavily on the representations and warranties and related indemnities provided to us by the sellers of acquired private companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. We rely on the performance of our employees and, if we are unable to retain, motivate or hire qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of our employees. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. Competition for well-qualified employees is intense in almost all categories, including for software engineers, developers, product management personnel, development personnel, and other technology professionals, and in all geographies. The competition for talent is also exacerbated by an increased willingness of certain companies to offer flexible and remote working policies, which expands the pool of candidates from which our competitors may attract talent. If we do not succeed in attracting and retaining well-qualified employees, our business, our ability to execute and innovate, our competitive position, and results of operations would be adversely affected. The current labor market is highly competitive and our personnel expenses to attract and retain key talent may increase further, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Our employees in certain countries, primarily European, are represented by works councils, health and safety committees, and/or trade unions, which we collectively refer to as Employee Representative Bodies ("ERBs"). We are required to engage with our ERBs on certain matters such as restructurings, acquisitions and divestitures, and other matters that could impact our labor force. This engagement may include informing, consulting, or requesting consent or approval and ultimately may not result in terms satisfactory to us, which could result in increases in our cost of labor, diversion of management's attention away from operating our business, delays in certain initiatives, and exposure to claims and litigation. In addition, the contributions of Barry Diller, our Chairman and Senior Executive, and Ariane Gorin, our Chief Executive Officer, as well as other members of our travel leadership team are critical to the overall management of the Company. In recent years, we have experienced a number of leadership transitions, which can be difficult to manage, and may cause disruption to our business due to, among other things, diverting management's attention away from the Company's financial and operational goals. Expedia Group cannot ensure that it will be able to retain the services of Mr. Diller, Ms. Gorin or any other member of our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our strategic initiatives or our efforts to increase our operational efficiencies, which may adversely affect our business. In recent years, we have undertaken a number of significant, multi-year strategic initiatives to provide greater services and value to our travelers, suppliers and business partners. Some of our most significant initiatives are described above in Part I. Item 1. Business, under the caption Market Opportunity and Business Strategy. We may not realize the benefits we expect to achieve from these and our other strategic initiatives or our efforts may negatively impact our business and operations due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, unexpected delays, operational or technological challenges, or higher than expected costs or expenses. As a result, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. We are exposed to various counterparty risks. We are exposed to the risk that various counterparties, including financial entities, will fail to perform. This creates risk 16 Table of Contents in a number of areas, including with respect to our bank deposits and investments, foreign exchange risk management, insurance coverages, letters of credit, and for certain of our transactions, the receipt and holding of traveler payments and subsequent remittance of a portion of those payments to travel suppliers. As it relates to deposits, as of December 31, 2024, we held cash in bank depository accounts of approximately $3.8 billion and money market funds and term deposits of approximately $192 million. Additionally, majority-owned subsidiaries held cash of approximately $68 million and held term deposits of approximately $84 million. As it relates to investments, as of December 31, 2024, we held U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency securities, corporate debt securities, term deposits, commercial paper, foreign debt instruments, and asset-backed securities, all investment grade, in short-term and long-term investments totaling $502 million. As it relates to foreign exchange, as of December 31, 2024, we were party to forward contracts with a notional value of approximately $3.9 billion, the fair value of which was a net liability of approximately $2 million. We employ forward contracts to hedge a portion of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of the deposit term or upon the maturity of the forward contracts, the counterparties are obligated, or potentially obligated in the case of forward contracts, to return our funds or pay us net settlement values. If any of these counterparties were to liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, it may not be able to satisfy its obligations under these term deposits or forward contracts, our ability to recover losses or to access or recover our assets held may be limited by the counterpartys liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding, and the receipt and remittance of payments via such counterparties would be severely limited or cease. In addition, we face significant credit risk and potential payment delays with respect to non-financial contract counterparties including our B2B and Vrbo partners, which may be exacerbated by economic downturns. The realization of any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. We have foreign exchange risk. We are a global company with transactions denominated in a variety of currencies and the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the U.S. dollar. We therefore face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates (particularly those related to the Euro, British pound, Japanese yen, Australian dollar, Brazilian real and Canadian dollar currencies), which may negatively impact the value of our cash flows, monetary assets and liabilities. In particular, we face exposure related to fluctuations in accommodation revenue due to relative currency movements from the time of booking to the time of stay as well as the impact of relative exchange rate movements on cross-border travel such as from Europe to the United States and the United States to Europe. Depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we choose not to hedge or fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. We make a number of estimates in conducting hedging activities including in some cases cancellations and payments in foreign currencies. In addition, an effective exchange rate hedging program is dependent upon effective systems, accurate and reliable data sources, controls and change management procedures. In the event our estimates differ significantly from actual results or if we fail to adopt effective hedging processes, we could experience greater volatility as a result of our hedging activities. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our alternative accommodations business is subject to regulatory and legal risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our alternative accommodations business has been, and continues to be, subject to risks relating to regulatory developments that affect the alternative accommodation industry and the ability of companies like us to list those alternative accommodations online. For example, certain domestic and foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that (i) prohibit or limit the ability of property owners and managers to rent certain properties for fewer than thirty consecutive days, (ii) place onerous obligations on property owners wishing to offer their properties, (iii) regulate platforms ability to list alternative accommodations, including prohibiting the listing of unlicensed properties, or (iv) limit the number of alternative accommodations permitted in a particular area, which may be more likely in areas experiencing housing shortages, in response to perceived safety concerns, or as a result of natural disasters such as wildfires. Other factors that may limit homeowners ability to rent their properties include condominium and neighborhood association rules that prohibit or restrict short-term rentals and challenges obtaining insurance and liability for personal injury. In addition, many of the laws that impose taxes or other obligations on travel and lodging companies were established before the growth of the internet and the alternative accommodation industry, which creates a risk of those laws being interpreted in ways not originally intended that could burden property owners and managers or otherwise harm our business. Governments also are considering additional taxes specific to alternative accommodations that, if implemented, could make the business of operating an alternative accommodation less attractive or prohibitively expensive. These new and evolving regulatory schemes may decrease listings available on our sites and add significant compliance risks to our business, including the risk of fines for noncompliance, as well as substantial internal costs and the allocation of 17 Table of Contents resources to develop new internal compliance systems and processes. These compliance obligations include gathering information about property owners, verification of registration status of properties and the ongoing provision of information to governmentsboth domestic and foreignabout short-term rental owners and operators and requirements to withhold and report taxable income to such governments, which may deter property owners from renting their properties on an alternative accommodation platform. We may also remove properties from our websites if alternative accommodation owners or operators do not provide information we require to comply with applicable regulations, or at the request of governments. We are not in a position to eliminate risks such as personal injury, property damage or other harm, at alternative accommodation properties listed on our platform and we generally do not verify traveler identity or property safety, such as fire code compliance or the presence of carbon monoxide detectors, which has resulted in claims of liability based on events occurring at properties listed on our platforms. Incidents involving the safety of guests, property owners, or other members of the public, or concerns about the security or quality of listings, could create a negative public perception of our platform, which would adversely impact our ability to attract hosts and guests. We have also experienced instances where properties listed on our sites are copied and travelers booking these properties outside of our websites are the subject of fraudulent requests for payment. In other cases, travelers have been asked to pay for their booking of properties listed on our website directly to the alternative accommodation operator and outside of our website, resulting in loss of revenue for us and increased risk of fraud for the traveler. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our alternative accommodations business, including impacting our reputation and brand, as well as the results of operations of our alternative accommodations business, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Expedia Groups operations and financial results. A failure to comply with current laws, rules, and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business, financial performance, results of operations or business growth. Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations. Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to travel and alternative accommodation licensing and listing requirements, the provision of travel packages, the internet and online commerce, internet advertising and price display, consumer protection, licensing and regulations relating to the offer of travel insurance and related products, anti-corruption, anti-trust and competition (including our contractual provisions regarding pricing and travel suppliers), economic and trade sanctions, tax, banking, machine learning and AI, data security, the provision of payment services and privacy. There are, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that relate to website display and messaging, including prices, liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services, and our contractual relationships with travel suppliers who list on our sites. Recent examples of new website display laws or regulations include, (i) in the United States, the Federal Trade Commission and the states of California and Minnesota introducing, and Congress and other states considering, laws or regulations that require us to include all fees in the prices displayed for accommodations on our websites, and (ii) in Europe, the EU Digital Services Act and Council Directive (known as DAC7) requires us to display a variety of supplier-related information, including local license numbers, tax identification numbers, business registration numbers, or statements regarding compliance with local laws. These and other new laws and regulations maybe costly and time consuming to implement, and significantly impact the profitability or competitiveness of our business. Additionally, some jurisdictions have implemented or are considering implementing regulations that restrict or could restrict access to city centers and popular destinations as well as impact our ability to offer accommodations, such as by limiting the construction of new hotels or renting of alternative accommodations. Also, compliance with the European Economic Community (EEC) Council Directive on Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours is costly and complex and could adversely impact our ability to offer certain packages in the EEC. Likewise, the SEC, Department of Justice (DOJ) and Office of Foreign Assets Controls (OFAC), as well as foreign regulatory authorities, have continued to increase the enforcement of economic sanctions and trade regulations, anti-money laundering, and anti-corruption laws, across industries. As regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. In the event our controls should fail or are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal money penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation and the value of our brands. We also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries or legal proceedings from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with economic sanctions, consumer protection, competition, tax, payments and travel industry-specific laws and regulations, including but not limited to investigations and legal proceedings relating to the travel industry and, in particular, parity provisions in contracts between hotels and online travel companies, including Expedia 18 Table of Contents Group, and the presentation of information to consumers, as described in Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Competition and Consumer Matters. The failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers which, if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Application of existing tax laws, rules, or regulations are subject to interpretation by taxing authorities. The application of domestic and international income and non-income tax laws, rules and regulations to our products and services is subject to interpretation by the relevant taxing authorities. The taxing authorities have become more aggressive in their interpretation and enforcement of such laws, rules and regulations, resulting in increased audit activity and audit assessments. As such, potential tax liabilities may exceed our current tax reserves. Taxing authorities have made inquiries, filed lawsuits, and levied assessments asserting we are required to collect and remit state and local sales or use taxes, value added taxes, or other transactional taxes related to our travel facilitation services, including the legal proceedings described in Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Judgment and estimation are required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of our business, there are calculations and transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Taxing authorities may disagree with our tax calculations, including transfer pricing. We believe our tax estimates are reasonable, however the final determination of tax audits may be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals in which case we may be subject to additional tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, or may require payment of tax assessments prior to contesting the validity of the assessment, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Our future tax liabilities may be adversely affected by legislative and other changes to taxing regimes, as well as changes in our business operating structure and the mix of revenue and earnings in countries with differing tax rates. Due to the pace of legislative changes and the scale of our business activities, any substantial changes in tax policies or legislative initiatives may materially and adversely affect our business, the taxes we are required to pay, our financial position, and results of operations. Taxing jurisdictions around the world have focused legislative efforts on tax reform, transparency, base erosion, and have enacted or are considering enacting digital services taxes, which could lead to inconsistent and potentially overlapping international tax regimes. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ("OECD") continues to advance proposals relating to its initiative for modernizing international tax rules, with the goal of having the participant countries implement a modernized and aligned international tax framework. Many of the current tax laws, rules, and regulations imposing taxes and other obligations were enacted before the growth of the digital economy. Certain jurisdictions have enacted legislation directed at taxing the digital economy and multi-national businesses. If existing tax laws, rules, or regulations change, by amendment or new legislation, the result could increase our tax liabilities and reporting obligations, including requirements to provide information about travel suppliers, customers, and transactions on our technology platform. The outcome of these changes may have an adverse effect on our business or financial performance, including a decrease in demand for our products and services if we pass on such costs to the consumer; an increase in the volume and cost of our tax reporting and compliance obligations; or limit the scope of our business activities if we decide not to conduct business in particular jurisdictions. We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are currently, or have been in the past, involved in various legal proceedings and disputes involving taxes, personal injury, contract, alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, antitrust, consumer protection, labor and employment matters, securities laws, and other claims, including, but not limited to, the legal proceedings described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. While the Company maintains insurance coverage for certain types of claims, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise and the defense of these actions has been, and will likely continue to be, both time consuming and expensive and the outcomes of these actions cannot be predicted with certainty. Determining reserves for pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant legal judgment. It is possible that unfavorable outcomes in one or more such proceedings could result in substantial payments that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. 19 Table of Contents We cannot be sure that our intellectual property and proprietary information is protected from all forms of copying or use by others, including potential competitors. Our websites and mobile applications rely on content, brands, trademarks, domain names and technology, much of which is proprietary. We establish and protect our intellectual property by relying on a combination of trademark, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, license and confidentiality agreements, and internal policies and procedures. In connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, our proprietary information and intellectual property. Even with these precautions, however, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or confusingly similar trademarks or domain names without our authorization or to develop similar intellectual property independently. Effective trademark, domain name, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are available and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. We cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property. Any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We currently license from third parties some of the technologies, content, and brands incorporated into our websites. We also license content from suppliers for our creative campaigns. As we continue to build our creative production work and introduce new services that incorporate new technologies, content and brands, we may be required to license additional technology, content, and brands. We cannot be sure that such technology, content and brand licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We also cannot be sure that content obtained from suppliers wont be subject to intellectual property infringement claims by a third party. Technology, Information Protection and Privacy Risks We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and if we fail to adequately maintain or improve our information technology systems, or to adapt them to technological developments and industry trends, our business and operations could be adversely affected. We depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems in many areas of our business including technology and systems used for website and mobile applications, reservations, customer service, supplier connectivity, marketing, communications, procurement, payments, tax collection and remittance, fraud detection and administration, which we must maintain and continuously improve and upgrade. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer preferences and industry standards, while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings. AI, cloud computing, the continued growth of alternative platforms and mobile computing devices, the emergence of niche competitors who may be better able to utilize existing and new technologies to optimize their products, services or strategies have, and will continue to require, new and costly investments. Transitioning to these new technologies may be disruptive to resources and the services we provide and may increase our reliance on third party service providers. Recent examples include: AI: We have incorporated third-party AI technology in certain of our products, services and business operations. Our research, development and deployment of AI technologies remains ongoing. AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect our and our customers adoption and use of this technology. AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed. Additionally, AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition in the market from other companies regarding the research, development and deployment of such technologies. While we aim to develop and deploy AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. AI-related issues, deficiencies and/or failures could (i) give rise to legal and/or regulatory action as a result of new applications of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws, including with respect to proposed legislation regulating AI in jurisdictions in which we operate; (ii) damage our reputation; or (iii) otherwise materially harm our business. Technology Transformation: We have engaged in a multi-year effort to migrate products, data storage and processing, key portions of our consumer and affiliate sites, as well as back-office application functionality, to new technology platforms and significantly increase our utilization of public cloud computing services, such as Amazon Web Services (AWS), to enable us to improve conversion, innovate more rapidly, achieve better search engine optimization and improve our site merchandising and transaction processing capabilities, among other anticipated benefits. Innovations, implementations and system enhancements such as these have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, more time consuming and expensive than originally anticipated. 20 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully migrate and improve our technology as planned or we may not achieve the expected benefits from any such initiatives, and as a result our business, including customer relationships, reputation and operations, could be materially adversely affected. System interruption, security breaches and unplanned outages in our information systems may harm our businesses. The risk of a cybersecurity-related attack by criminal organizations, hacktivists, foreign governments, and terrorists, is persistent. Due to the size and scale of our technology infrastructure and overall operations, vulnerabilities present within our systems may result in unauthorized access to confidential data including our own proprietary data, that of our partners or the personal data of our customers, including payment data. In addition, given the nature of our operations, consumer personal and payment data may also be accessed inappropriately within partner systems should those partners also experience a breach. In addition, we continue to encounter attempted external attacks in a variety of forms, including ransomware, account takeovers, phishing, disinformation, and denial of service attacks. Additionally, some actors are using AI technology to launch more sophisticated, automated, targeted and coordinated attacks, including phishing and account takeover attacks, that are more difficult to detect. As these continue, there is a risk that successful attacks may cause a significant cybersecurity incident which impacts our critical operations, or those of our partners. Successful attacks have the potential to damage our reputation, increase costs, and result in regulatory scrutiny or fines. As we continue to migrate legacy systems to newer information technology systems, we increase the risk of system interruptions. We have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties. Significant interruptions, outages or delays in our internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon - including multiple co-location providers for data centers, cloud computing providers for application hosting, and network access providers - and network access, or deterioration in the performance of such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions, decrease our quality of service that we can offer to our customers, damage our reputation and brands, increase our costs and/or cause losses. We also face risks related to our ability to maintain data and hardware security with respect to remote working. No assurance can be given that our backup systems or contingency plans will sustain critical aspects of our operations or business processes in all circumstances. Although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services to our travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. In addition, as a result of our migration of key portions of our platform functionality to AWS, we now depend on the availability of AWSs services and any incident affecting AWSs infrastructure and availability, which have occurred a number of times in the recent past, could adversely affect the availability of our platform and our ability to serve our customers, which could in turn damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, result in substantial costs for remediation, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative hosting sources or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that compromise the AWS services we use. We process, store and use customer, supplier and employee personal, financial and other data, which subjects us to risks stemming from possible failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations, as well as litigation and reputational risks associated with the failure to protect such data from unauthorized use, theft or destruction. There are numerous laws regarding the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of customer, partner and employee personal, financial, and other data, the scope of which is changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations, and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. It is possible, however, that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or the practices of our businesses. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or our service providers, to comply with, privacy-related legal obligations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized use, theft, or destruction of such data, may result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain customers or attract new customers, and the potential disruption to our business and plans. The risk of a data incident due to cybersecurity-related privacy event remains persistent. In addition, such an event could result in violations of applicable U.S. and international laws, governmental enforcement actions and consumer or securities litigation. We are subject to privacy regulations, and compliance with these regulations could impose significant compliance burdens. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable 21 Table of Contents future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. Twenty U.S. states have passed comprehensive privacy legislation and several others are considering privacy legislation. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, that went into effect in the European Union in May 2018, requires companies to implement and remain compliant with regulations regarding the handling of personal data. Enforcement of GDPR regulations, and fines for non-compliance, continue to increase and a significant number of additional jurisdictions have enacted similar privacy regulations. As additional jurisdictions continue to enact and update privacy regulations and laws, we will experience increased compliance costs and uncertainty as to how such laws will be interpreted. Although we have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources to comply with other privacy laws and regulations globally, the number and variety of regulations combined with our multi-product, multi-brand, global businesses, could nevertheless result in compliance failures. Failure to meet any of the requirements of these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties or legal liability, adverse publicity and/or damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Environmental, Social and Governance Risks Mr. Diller may be deemed to beneficially own shares representing approximately 31% of the outstanding voting power of Expedia Group. As of December 31, 2024, Mr. Diller may be deemed to have beneficially owned 100% of Expedia Groups outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 31% of the total voting power of all shares of Expedia Group common stock and Class B common stock outstanding. In the future, Mr. Dillers ownership percentage in Expedia Group could increase if he acquires additional shares of Expedia Group common stock in open market purchases or otherwise, or if Expedia Group repurchases additional shares of its common stock. Mr. Diller is also currently the Chairman of Expedia Groups Board of Directors and Senior Executive of Expedia Group. Expedia Groups amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Chairman of the Board may only be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the entire Board of Directors, which provision may not be amended, altered changed or repealed, or any provision inconsistent therewith adopted, without the approval of at least (1) 80% of the entire Board of Directors and (2) 80% of the voting power of Expedia Groups outstanding voting securities, voting together as a single class. As a result of Mr. Dillers ownership interests and voting power, Mr. Diller is in a position to influence, and potentially control, significant corporate actions, including corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets. Additionally, in the future, another holder of the Class B Shares might have such a position of influence by virtue of ownership interests in the Class B Shares. This concentrated ownership position could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to Expedia Group stockholders. Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between Expedia Group management and directors, on the one hand, and the management and directors of IAC, on the other. Mr. Diller serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive, while retaining his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive of IAC Inc., or "IAC". Each of Ms. Clinton and Mr. von Furstenberg also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of both Expedia Group and IAC. These overlapping relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for the directors or officers when facing decisions that may affect both IAC and Expedia Group. Mr. Diller in particular may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his time between the companies. Increased focus on our environmental, social, and governance ("ESG") responsibilities have and will likely continue to result in additional costs and risks, and may adversely impact our reputation, employee retention, and willingness of customers and partners to do business with us. Institutional, individual, and other investors, proxy advisory services, regulatory authorities, consumers, employees and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG practices of companies, including climate change, diversity, equity and inclusion, human capital management, data privacy and security, supply chains (including human rights issues), among other topics. These evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to respond to and manage these issues, provide updates on them, and establish and meet appropriate goals, commitments, and targets present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks and impacts, any of which may be outside of our control or could have a material adverse impact on our business, including on our reputation and stock price. Our efforts in this area may result in a significant increase in costs and may nevertheless not meet investor or other stakeholder expectations and evolving standards or regulatory requirements, which may negatively impact our financial results, our reputation, our ability to attract or retain employees, our 22 Table of Contents attractiveness as a service provider, investment, or business partner, or expose us to government enforcement actions, private litigation, and actions by stockholders or stakeholders. Moreover, we may be subject to criticism by ESG detractors for our ESG initiatives or for any revisions made to these initiatives. We may also be subject to adverse responses by government entities, like anti-ESG laws or punitive legislative actions, or from consumers, through actions like boycotts or adverse media campaigns, aimed at Expedia Group that could negatively affect our reputation, business operations, financial results, and growth. Climate change may have an adverse impact on our business. Our businesses may also be negatively impacted by direct and indirect impacts of climate change. Direct impacts may include disruptions to travel and to our operations due to more frequent or severe storms, hurricanes, flooding, rising sea levels, shortages of water, droughts and wildfires. Indirect impacts may include a significant shift in consumer preferences, which we may not successfully adapt to, or the general harm to our business as a result of a general perception of travel as an environmental harm. These and other climate change related impacts could have a significant adverse impact on our business in both the short, medium and long term. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations could be significant. Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other risks, the risks described in this Item 1A, as well as: quarterly variations in our operating and financial results as well as those of our peer companies; operating and financial results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors, including failure to meet or exceed forward-looking guidance we have given or deliver expected returns on investments or key initiatives; changes in our capital or governance structure; repurchases of our common stock, including failure to meet internal or external expectations around the timing or price of shares repurchases, and any reductions or discontinuances of repurchase activities; changes in the stock price or market valuations of trivago, our majority-owned, publicly traded subsidiary, whose stock price is also highly volatile; changes in device and platform technologies and search industry dynamics, such as key word pricing and traffic, or other changes that negatively affect our ability to generate traffic to our websites; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments as well as technological innovations, new services or promotional and discounting activities; dilution resulting from any conversion of our convertible debt into common stock; loss of a major travel supplier, such as an airline, hotel or car rental chain; and lack of success in our efforts to increase our market share. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the greater securities market in general experiences uneven investor confidence, the market price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, operating results or financial condition. Volatility in our stock price could also make us less attractive to certain investors, and/or invite speculative trading in our common stock or debt instruments. Part I. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 23 Table of Contents Part I. Item 1C. Cybersecurity The Companys Board of Directors (the Board) recognizes that safeguarding the Companys data, information systems, and technology assets is critical to maintaining the trust and confidence of the Companys travelers, business partners and employees. The Board actively exercises oversight of the Companys technological infrastructure, information security and its cybersecurity, which are key components of the Companys risk management program. The Companys cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and programs are integrated into its risk management program and are based on industry standard frameworks established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST") and the International Organization for Standardization, among others, as well as on evolving best practices. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy The Companys cybersecurity risk management program is composed of the following key elements: Governance. As discussed in more detail under the heading Cybersecurity Governance below, as part of its general oversight duties, the Board oversees the Companys risk management, including its cybersecurity risks. The Board is supported in its oversight of cybersecurity risks by the Audit Committee, which regularly interacts with the Companys risk management function, the Companys Chief Security Officer function (CSO) and the Companys Chief Technology Officer function (CTO). Risk Assessment and Management. The Companys cybersecurity risk management program is based on industry standard information security principles and best practices, specifically the NIST Cybersecurity Framework and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI DSS"). The program encompasses all Company directly-managed brands, entities, and internal organizations other than its publicly-traded trivago subsidiary, which has its own standalone cybersecurity risk management program, and uses a proactive approach to regularly identify and assess cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities and risks, and to evaluate the effectiveness of implemented security controls through internal audits, external threat intelligence, and periodic external independent assessments. Risks identified and assessed through the cybersecurity risk management program are then communicated to the Companys senior leadership team and used to prioritize risks based on their potential impact and likelihood as part of the Companys dynamic risk response strategy. Technical Safeguards and Incident Response. The Company classifies its electronic data and information systems based on the sensitivity and criticality of the data involved and deploys commensurate technical safeguards, including but not limited to firewalls, encryption, network segmentation, real-time monitoring, intrusion prevention systems, anti-malware, and access controls. The Companys cybersecurity incident response plan, modeled on NIST 800-61, is built on a comprehensive framework which sets forth guidance and procedures required for the life cycle of an incident. The plan establishes processes for use by a cross-functional cybersecurity incident response team with the resources necessary to take action in a timely and decisive manner during the response, investigation, and remediation of an incident, and to comply with legal obligations. The Company tests, trains, and evaluates its incident response capabilities on at least an annual basis and updates its incident response plan accordingly. The Company also maintains insurance coverage for cybersecurity incidents. Third-Party Risk Management.The Companys external service provider management program requires all third-party service providers to comply with the Companys security standards, including notification procedures in the event of an incident involving Company confidential information. The Company requires its service providers to ensure that their own third-party vendors and subcontractors comply with the Companys security standards when working with Company information. In addition, the Company performs diligence on external service providers and their vendors that have access to the Company's information and/or information systems, and conducts ongoing monitoring throughout the life of the relationship, including re-assessments in light of any significant changes to the providers security controls or technical landscape. Education and Awareness. The Companys mandatory annual cybersecurity employee training program covers critical aspects of digital security, including phishing prevention, threat awareness and safe data handling practices. The annual training program is regularly refreshed based on the evolving security landscape and secure code development. It is also supplemented by awareness initiatives to keep Company personnel updated on cybersecurity threats and the latest security policies and instill a culture of security mindfulness across the organization. Continuous Review.The Company regularly reviews its cybersecurity policies, standards, and programs and evaluates the effectiveness of implemented security controls. In addition to performing internal audits, assessments, tabletop exercises, and vulnerability testing, the Company periodically engages third parties to perform information security maturity assessments, audits, cyber breach root cause analysis, and independent reviews of its information security control environment and operating effectiveness. The Companys CSO provides regular reports on the results of such assessments to the Audit Committee and the Companys senior leadership team, and the Company adjusts its cybersecurity policies, standards, and programs as necessary based on these reviews. 24 Table of Contents To date, no risks from cybersecurity threats, including those resulting from any previous cybersecurity incidents, have materially adversely affected, or are reasonably likely to materially adversely affect, the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. Although the Companys cybersecurity risk management program, as described above, is designed to help prevent, detect, respond to, and mitigate the impact of cybersecurity incidents, there is no guarantee that a future cybersecurity incident would not materially adversely affect the Company's business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. For information regarding cybersecurity risks that the Company faces and potential impacts on its business related thereto, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, under the caption System interruption, security breaches and unplanned outages in our information systems may harm our businesses. Cybersecurity Governance The Board, in coordination with the Audit Committee, oversees the Companys risk management program, which includes risks arising from cybersecurity threats.The Audit Committee regularly receives presentations and reports from both Company management and third-parties, as appropriate, that address a wide range of topics related to cybersecurity risks, including evolving standards, third-party and independent reviews, threat environment updates, technology trends and information security considerations arising with respect to the Companys peers and partners. The Companys CSO and/or the Companys CTO regularly meet with the Audit Committee (and, where appropriate, the full Board) to discuss technology, information security and cybersecurity programs, progress updates on the Company's key cybersecurity initiatives and related priorities and controls. At least annually, the Audit Committee and the full Board receive a comprehensive written report covering the Company's cybersecurity program and associated risks, and any changes made to the program since the previous report. Additionally, the Audit Committee is promptly apprised of any cybersecurity incident that meets established reporting thresholds, and receives ongoing updates regarding any such incident until it has been resolved. At each regularly scheduled Board meeting, the Audit Committee Chair provides the full Board with an update on all significant matters discussed, reviewed, considered and approved by the committee since the last regularly scheduled Board meeting. The Companys CSO, in coordination with the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO), CTO, and Chief Legal Officer (CLO), works collaboratively across the Company to implement and monitor a program designed to protect the Companys information systems from cybersecurity threats and to promptly respond to any cybersecurity incidents in accordance with the Companys cybersecurity incident response plan and its security policy. To facilitate the success of the Companys cybersecurity risk management program, multidisciplinary teams throughout the Company are deployed to address cybersecurity threats and to respond to cybersecurity incidents. Through ongoing communications with these teams, the CSO, the CTO and other executive leadership team members are informed about and monitor the prevention, detection, mitigation and remediation of cybersecurity threats and incidents in real time, and report risks from cybersecurity threats and cybersecurity incidents to the Audit Committee when appropriate. The Companys prior Chief Security Officer departed in late 2024 and the CSO function is currently overseen by two co-CSOs on an interim basis until a permanent successor is appointed.Each of the co-CSOs has over 30 years of relevant experience in a variety of sectors, including travel, fintech, and e-commerce. One co-CSO has held Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Information Officer and Chief Security Officer roles at multiple multinational public companies, leading enterprise-wide cybersecurity strategies and risk management programs; he holds a Master's degree in Security and Risk Management. The other co-CSO has served as Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Officer at several multinational public companies, where he has driven digital transformation initiatives, technology modernization efforts, and secure platform development; he holds a Bachelor's degree in Computer Information Systems. The Companys CTO has over 20 years of experience, including leading global technology teams focused on developing secure, large-scale platforms, implementing advanced data security measures, and mitigating risks across complex technological ecosystems. He holds a Bachelors degree in Technology and a Masters degree in Technology. The Companys CEO, CFO and CLO each hold undergraduate and graduate degrees in their respective fields, and each have extensive experience managing risks at the Company and at similar companies, including risks arising from cybersecurity threats. Part I. Item 2. Properties We own our corporate headquarters located in Seattle, Washington, which is approximately 650,000 square feet of office space. In addition, we lease approximately 2.2 million square feet of office space worldwide in various cities and locations, pursuant to leases with expiration dates through May 2038, of which approximately 680,000 square feet is leased for domestic operations and 1.5 million for international operations. 25 Table of Contents Part I. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, Expedia Group and its subsidiaries are parties to legal proceedings and claims involving property, personal injury, contract, alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights and other statutory and common law claims. The amounts that may be recovered in such matters may be subject to insurance coverage. Rules of the SEC require the description of material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary, routine litigation incident to the registrants business, and advise that proceedings ordinarily need not be described if they primarily involve damages claims for amounts (exclusive of interest and costs) not individually exceeding 10% of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. In the judgment of management, none of the pending litigation matters that the Company and its subsidiaries are defending, including those described below, involves or is likely to involve amounts of that magnitude. The litigation matters described below involve issues or claims that may be of particular interest to our stockholders, regardless of whether any of these matters may be material to our financial position or results of operations based upon the standard set forth in the SECs rules. Litigation Relating to Occupancy and Other Taxes A number of jurisdictions in the United States have filed lawsuits against online travel companies, including Expedia Group companies such as Hotels.com, Expedia, Hotwire, Orbitz and HomeAway, claiming that such travel companies have failed to collect and/or pay taxes (e.g., occupancy taxes, business privilege taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.), as well as related claims such as unjust enrichment, restitution, conversion and violation of consumer protection statutes, and seeking monetary (including tax, interest, and penalties), injunctive and/or declaratory relief. In addition, we may file complaints contesting tax assessments made by states, counties and municipalities seeking to obligate online travel companies, including certain Expedia Group companies, to collect and remit certain taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both. Moreover, certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. Actions Filed by Individual States, Cities and Counties Clark County, Nevada Litigation. On May 14, 2021, Clark County, Nevada filed a lawsuit in state court against a number of online travel companies, including a number of Expedia Group companies such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Orbitz, Travelscape, and Hotwire. The complaint alleges the defendants failed to comply with state and local transient occupancy tax statutes, as well as claims for conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, fraud and violation of the Nevada Deceptive Trade Practices Act. Plaintiffs purport to seek compensatory and punitive damages, declaratory relief and imposition of a constructive trust. The case was removed to federal district court. On September 13, 2021, defendants filed a motion to dismiss the common law and Nevada Deceptive Trade Practices Act claims. On August 12, 2022, the district court dismissed the Nevada Deceptive Trade Practice Claim but denied the motion to dismiss the common law claims. On May 16, 2022, defendants filed a motion for summary judgment as to all claims, which the court granted on March 31, 2023. On April 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration, which the court denied on January 16, 2024. On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the district court's rulings on the motion for summary judgment and motion to reconsider. The United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals held argument on the appeal on December 8, 2024. On December 23, 2024, the Court of Appeals affirmed the district courts ruling. On January 14, 2025, the Court of Appeals issued the mandate terminating its review, thereby ending the matter. In addition, HomeAway is a party in the following proceedings: Jasper County Development District #1, Texas Litigation. On August 17, 2020, Jasper County Development District # 1 filed a lawsuit in Texas state court against Expedia and HomeAway. The complaint alleges claims for declaratory judgment, damages and an accounting. The parties have reached a tentative settlement agreement. City of Charleston, South Carolina Litigation. On April 9, 2021, nine local governmental entities in South Carolina filed a lawsuit in state circuit court against HomeAway.com, Inc. and many other vacation rental listing companies. The complaint alleges the defendants failed to register with, and remit taxes and business license fees to, the plaintiffs as allegedly required by certain local accommodations tax and business license ordinances. The complaint further alleges claims for violation of the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act. Plaintiffs purport to seek declaratory and injunctive relief, a legal accounting and damages. On May 27, 2021, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint adding five additional local government entities as plaintiffs. On September 24, 2021, plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to file a second amended complaint seeking to add, among other things, two additional local government entities as plaintiffs (which would bring the total number of plaintiffs to 16). The court granted that motion on March 25, 2022. On August 15, 2022, HomeAway.com, Inc. filed a motion to dismiss the South Carolina Unfair Trade Practices Act, contractual undertaking, declaratory relief and injunctive relief causes of action and answered the remaining causes of action. On April 4, 2023, the court denied the motion. Notices of Audit or Tax Assessments 26 Table of Contents At various times, the Company has also received notices of audit or tax assessments from states, counties, municipalities and other local taxing jurisdictions concerning its possible obligations with respect to state and local taxes (e.g. occupancy taxes, business privilege taxes, excise taxes, sales taxes, etc.). Non-Tax Litigation and Other Legal Proceedings Putative Class Action Litigation Israeli Putative Class Action Lawsuit (Zeev). In or around January 2018, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in the District Court in Lod, Israel against a number of online travel companies including Expedia, Inc. and Hotels.com. The plaintiff generally alleges that the defendants violated Israeli consumer laws by limiting hotel price competition. The plaintiff has filed a motion for class certification which defendants have opposed. Other Legal Proceedings Helms-Burton Litigation. A number of complaints have been filed by parties alleging violations of Title III of the Cuban Liberty and Democratic Solidarity Act, also known as the Helms-Burton Act. On August 10, 2023, the District Court dismissed, on new grounds, the Del Valle action and plaintiff filed an appeal to the Eleventh Circuit which remains pending. On October 31, 2024, the court granted defendants motion for summary judgment in the Trinidad matter, plaintiff appealed to the Eleventh Circuit and that appeal is pending. The Echeverria matter is set for trial beginning March 24, 2025 in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Florida. The CSL matter remains pending in the District of Delaware. Paris City Hall Litigation. On January 28, 2021, Paris City Hall filed an action against HomeAway UK Ltd. (HomeAway UK) alleging that HomeAway UK had failed to comply with regulations relating to the sharing of supplier booking data in 2019 and 2020. A hearing on the matter was held on March 30, 2022. OnNovember 30, 2022, the court ruled in Homeaway UKs favor dismissing all claims. On January 12, 2023, Paris City Hall appealed the decision. On October 22, 2024, the court issued an opinion affirming the trial court's dismissal of all claims against Homeaway UK. On December 16, 2024, Paris City Hall filed an appeal with the French Supreme Court, which remains pending. Competition and Consumer Matters Over the last several years, the online travel industry has become the subject of investigations by various national competition authorities (NCAs), particularly in Europe. Matters Relating to Contractual Provisions with Accommodations Providers Expedia Group companies are or have been involved in a number of investigations by NCAs predominately related to whether certain parity clauses in contracts between Expedia Group entities and accommodation providers (sometimes also referred to as most favored nation or MFN provisions) are anti-competitive. In 2015, Expedia Group companies voluntarily waived certain rate, conditions and availability parity clauses in agreements with European hotel partners, resulting in most NCAs in Europe closing their investigations. However, certain related matters remain ongoing, including cases brought by the German Federal Cartel Office.Legislative bodies in France, Austria, Italy, Belgium and Portugal have also adopted domestic anti-parity clause legislation, which we believe in each case violates both EU and national legal principles.In December 2022, Switzerland also passed legislation taking action on price parity in Switzerland. A number of NCAs outside of Europe have also opened investigations or inquired about contractual parity provisions in contracts between hotels and online travel companies in their respective territories, including Expedia Group companies. In certain of these jurisdictions, including Australia, Brazil, Hong Kong, South Korea, Japan and New Zealand, the concerns were resolved with Expedia Group companies waiver of certain rate, conditions and availability parity clauses in agreements with hotel partners in the respective jurisdictions. Matters Relating to Online Marketplaces Some regulatory authorities in different countries have also undertaken market studies, inquiries or investigations relating to the presentation of information on certain of our consumer-facing websites. We have worked collaboratively with such authorities and in some cases have offered voluntary undertakings or commitments in order to address the regulatory authorities' concerns. We are unable to predict what, if any, effect such actions by regulatory authorities will have on our business, industry practices or online commerce more generally. Part I. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 27 Table of Contents Part II. Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the ticker symbol EXPE. Our Class B common stock is not listed and there is no established public trading market. As of January 24, 2025, there were approximately 1,698 holders of record of our common stock and the closing price of our common stock was $171.23 on Nasdaq. As of January 24, 2025, all of our Class B common stock was held by Mr. Diller, Chairman and Senior Executive of Expedia Group and the Diller Foundation d/b/a The Diller - von Furstenberg Family Foundation. Dividend Policy We did not pay quarterly common stock dividends in 2024, 2023, or 2022. On February 3, 2025, the Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of quarterly common stock dividends, and on February 4, 2025, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 27, 2025 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 6, 2025. Declaration and payment of future dividends, if any, is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, financial condition, share dilution management, legal risks, tax policies, capital requirements relating to research and development, investments and acquisitions, challenges to our business model and other factors that the Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, our credit agreements limit our ability to pay cash dividends under certain circumstances. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities During the quarter ended December 31, 2024, we did not issue or sell any shares of our common stock or other equity securities pursuant to unregistered transactions in reliance upon an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities In October 2023, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Board, authorized a program to repurchase up to $5 billion of our common stock (2023 Share Repurchase Program). Our 2023Share Repurchase Programdoes not have fixed expiration dates and does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing, manner, price and amount of any repurchases will be subject to the discretion of the Company and depend on a variety of factors, including the market price of Expedia Groups common stock, general market and economic conditions, regulatory requirements and other business considerations. A summary of the repurchase activity for the fourth quarter of 2024 is as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under Plans or Programs (In thousands, expect per share data) October 1-31, 2024 673 $ 153.87 673 $ 3,266,144 November 1-30, 2024 200 167.73 200 3,232,644 December 1-31, 2024 3,232,644 Total 873 873 28 Table of Contents Performance Comparison Graph The graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total return, calculated on a dividend reinvested basis, for Expedia Group common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index, the RDG (Research Data Group) Internet Composite Index and the S&P 500. The graph assumes an investment of $100 in each of the above on December 31, 2019. The stock price performance shown in the graph is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Part II. Item 6.Reserved Not Applicable. Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia Group's mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We help reduce the barriers to travel, making it easier, more enjoyable, more attainable and more accessible. We bring the world within reach for customers and partners around the globe. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to empower travelers to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, activities and experiences providers, cruise lines, alternative accommodations property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Market Opportunity and Business Strategy. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 items and year over year comparisons between 2024 and 2023. Discussions of the year ended December 31, 2022 items and the year over year comparisons between 2023 and 2022 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends Starting in early 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic, and measures to contain the virus, including government travel restrictions and quarantine orders, had an unprecedented impact on the global travel industry and materially and negatively impacted our business, financial results and financial condition. Travel was severely depressed during 2020, with reduced levels of new bookings. In 2021, we began to see a bookings recovery. In 2022, there was a strong, but uneven, recovery in travel demand with different regions around the world experiencing different rates of recovery. In 2023, the overall reopening of the 29 Table of Contents Asia-Pacific region and general recovery outside of the United States was a factor in the gross bookings year-over-year growth rate for our B2B segment, but any other lingering impacts of the pandemic did not have a significant impact on our businesses, and we expect that to remain the case for future periods. More recently, inflation and other macroeconomic pressures in the U.S. and the global economy, such as interest rates, and currency fluctuations and energy price volatility, as well as evolving geopolitical conflicts, have contributed to an increasingly complex business environment. Our future operational results may be subject to volatility, particularly in the short-term, due to the impact of the aforementioned trends. Broad, sustained negative economic impacts could put strain on our suppliers, business and service partners, which increases the risk of credit losses and service level or other disruptions. Additionally, further health-related events, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sustained levels of increased inflation, sovereign debt issues, and natural disasters, are examples of other events that could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Despite these factors, we have witnessed a healthy but more normalized travel demand environment in 2024, as consumers continue to prioritize spend on travel and experiences over other discretionary spending. For additional information about our business strategy for Expedia Group, see the disclosure set forth in Part I. Item 1. Business, under the caption Market Opportunity and Business Strategy. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have continued to drive rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. Online penetration is higher in the U.S. and Western European markets with online penetration rates in some emerging markets, such as Latin America and Eastern European regions, lagging behind those regions. Emerging markets continue to present an attractive growth opportunity for our business, while also attracting many competitors to online travel. The industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, we have seen continued interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies such as Google, evidenced by continued product enhancements, and prioritizing its own AdWords and metasearch products such as Google Hotel Ads and Google Flights, in search results. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (owned by Booking Holdings), trivago (in which Expedia Group owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools. Further, airlines and lodging companies are aggressively pursuing direct online distribution of their products and services. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Businesses such as Airbnb, Vrbo and Booking.com have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Other competitors have arisen, including vacation rental property managers, who operate their own booking sites in addition to listing on Airbnb, Vrbo, and Booking.com. Additionally, traditional consumer ecommerce players have expanded their local offerings by adding hotel offers to their websites. Ride sharing app Uber has added transportation and experience offerings to its app via partnerships with other travel providers. Our B2B business has grown significantly but faces competition from other OTAs with B2B offerings, as well as other competitors, such as independent B2B businesses. The online travel industry also saw the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia Group facilitates both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings with our hotel supply partners through both agency-only contracts as well as our hybrid ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. For more detail, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing and Our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. Lodging Lodging includes both hotel and alternative accommodations. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2024, lodging accounted for 80%. Room nights booked grew 9% in 2024, as compared to a growth of 12% in 2023 and 26% in 2022. ADRs for rooms booked for Expedia Group increased 3% in 2022, decreased 2% in 2023 and decreased 1% in 2024. While trends are normalizing, our lodging business has seen a significant increase in ADRs compared to pre-pandemic levels, which were driven by broader industry trends, a mix shift to Vrbo and high ADR geographies. As of December 31, 2024, our global lodging marketplace has over 3.5 million total lodging properties available. Our Vrbo brand has over 2.5 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings. Our other brands have over 1 million hotels and alternative accommodations. 30 Table of Contents Hotel. We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). Our relationships and overall economics with hotel supply partners have been broadly stable in recent years. As we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs, discounting, and couponing have contributed to declines in revenue per room night and profitability in certain cases. Further, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty programs, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary benefits. Alternative Accommodations. Over the past decade, we expanded into the alternative accommodations market. Vrbo is a leader, specializing in unique whole home inventory, primarily in North American leisure markets, and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia Group. Vrbo has transitioned from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. Vrbo primarily offers a pay-per-booking service model and generates revenue from a traveler service fee for bookings, as well as insurance products. Since our hotel and alternative accommodation supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. In the future, we could see macroeconomic factors influence ADR trends, including rising living costs due to inflation and higher interest rates. Other factors that could lead to moderating ADRs include growth in hotel supply and the increase in alternative accommodation inventory. Air In early 2024, U.S. domestic air capacity exceeded demand, putting pressure on domestic airfares, but this rationalized by September with domestic fares inflecting back to growth. For the full year 2024, U.S. domestic airfares were up approximately 1% year-over-year and up approximately 11% compared to 2019 levels, according to Airlines Report Corporation ("ARC") data. Our air bookings grew in 2024 compared to 2023 but continued to lag the growth in our lodging business. In the future, we could encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine, more air carriers shift to our "direct connect" technology, certain supply agreements renew, and as we continue to add airlines to ensure local coverage in new markets. Booked air tickets increased 6% in 2024, 4% in 2023 and 8% in 2022. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2024, air accounted for 3%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch website, and Expedia Group Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In 2024, we generated $954 million of advertising and media revenue, a 16% increase from 2023, representing 7% of our total worldwide revenue. In 2024, we generated $639 million of advertising revenue from Expedia Group Media Solutions, a 32% increase from 2023. In 2024, we generated $315 million of third-party revenue from trivago, a 7% decrease from 2023. Since the onset of COVID-19, online travel agencies, including ourselves, have reduced marketing spend on trivago. In 2023, the company adapted its marketing strategy and launched a new logo and visual identity, part of a push to rejuvenate its brand, demonstrate the relevance of its offerings and drive long-term growth. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Since revenue for most of our travel services, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized as the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks for our hotel business and can be several months or more for our alternative accommodations business. Historically, Vrbo has seen seasonally stronger bookings in the first quarter of the year, with the relevant stays occurring during the peak summer travel months. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to 31 Table of Contents booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. As a result on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The growth in our B2B segment, international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, among others, may also influence the typical trend of seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally reduce our merchant accounts payable and the supplier costs within net revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Deferred Loyalty Rewards We currently offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our travelers. In July 2023, we began to unify and expand our existing loyalty programs into one global rewards platform called One Key spanning all our main brands. One Key allows members to earn OneKeyCash, the currency of the One Key program, on eligible hotels, alternative accommodations, activities, packages car rentals, flights and cruises made on the U.S. and U.K. points of sale on Expedia, Hotels.com and Vrbo. Hotels.com Rewards continues to be offered outside of the United States and United Kingdom and offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. Expedia Rewards also continues to be offered outside of the United States and United Kingdom and enables participating travelers to earn points on all hotel, flight, package and activities made on various international Brand Expedia websites. As travelers accumulate awards towards free travel products, we defer the relative standalone selling price of earned awards, net of expected breakage, as deferred loyalty rewards within deferred merchant bookings on the consolidated balance sheet. In order to estimate the standalone selling price of the underlying services on which awards can be redeemed for all loyalty programs, we use an adjusted market assessment approach and consider the redemption values expected from the traveler. We then estimate the number of rewards that will not be redeemed based on historical activity in our members' accounts as well as statistical modeling techniques. Revenue is recognized when we have satisfied our performance obligation relating to the awards, that is when the travel service purchased with the loyalty award is satisfied. Both the actual standalone selling price of the underlying services and ultimate redemption rates could differ materially from our estimates due to a number of factors, including fluctuations in reward value, product utilization and divergence from historical member behavior. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill. We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. During the third quarter of 2023, as a result of trivagos recent strategic shift which included intensifying its brand marketing investments with an anticipated decrease in profitability, we concluded that sufficient 32 Table of Contents indicators existed to require us to perform an interim impairment assessment. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we typically perform a quantitative assessment and compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value and, if applicable, record an impairment charge based on the excess of the reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. Periodically, we may choose to perform a qualitative assessment, prior to performing the quantitative analysis, to determine whether the fair value of the goodwill is more likely than not impaired. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is generally the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets. We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. In addition to the trivago goodwill impairment charge mentioned above, as a result of the assessment during the third quarter of 2023 as well as additional assessment during the third quarter of 2024, we recognized a $15 million and $33 million impairment charges related to trivago's indefinite-lived trade name. During the fourth quarters of 2023 and 2024, we also recognized intangible impairment charges of $114 million for both periods related to indefinite-lived trade names within our B2C segment. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in the period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. For additional information on our goodwill and intangible asset impairments recorded in 2024, 2023 and 2022, see NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 33 Table of Contents Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities for each temporary difference are recorded based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including recent earnings by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, the tax attribute carryforward periods, as well as other relevant factors. We may record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we must make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheets. We account for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process of evaluating recognition and measurement criteria. The first step assesses whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the tax authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more likely than not criteria, the tax benefit greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with the tax authority is recognized in the financial statements. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies. We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy and Other Taxes. Some states and localities impose taxes (e.g. transient occupancy, accommodation tax, sales tax and/or business privilege tax) on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations or other traveler services. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the applicable tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In most jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit taxes, nor do we pay taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such taxes. A limited number of taxing jurisdictions have made similar claims against certain of our companies for tax amounts due on the rental amounts charged by owners of alternative accommodations properties or for taxes on our services. We are an intermediary between a traveler and a party renting an alternative accommodations property and we believe are similarly not liable for such taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve these issues. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy and other transactional tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions and, due to the complex nature of tax legislation and frequent changes with such associated legislation, it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of international, state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain countries, states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our lodging revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and ecommerce. Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of taxes on businesses that facilitate the booking of hotel or alternative accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor 34 Table of Contents the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in tax related litigation, which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in two lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and/or ordinances at issue do not apply to us or the services we provide, namely the facilitation of travel planning and reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. For additional information and other recent developments on these and other legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $3 million as of December 31, 2024 and $46 million as of December 31, 2023. Certain jurisdictions in the United States have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales or other taxes for hotel and/or other accommodations and/or car rental. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, we have entered into voluntary collection agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to voluntarily collect and remit taxes to state and/or local taxing jurisdictions. Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with various tax authorities, some of which may impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. Segments We have the following reportable segments: B2C, B2B, and trivago. Our B2C segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of consumer brands including: Expedia.com, Hotels.com, Vrbo, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, ebookers, CheapTickets, Hotwire.com and CarRentals.com. Our B2B segment fuels a wide range of travel and non-travel companies including airlines, offline travel agents, online retailers, corporate travel management and financial institutions, who leverage our leading travel technology and tap into our diverse supply to augment their offerings and market Expedia Group rates and availabilities to their travelers. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked for agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, 35 Table of Contents including taxes, fees and other charges, and are reduced for cancellations and refunds. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Gross bookings $ 110,921 $ 104,079 $ 95,049 7 % 10 % Revenue margin (1) 12.3 % 12.3 % 12.3 % ___________________________________ (1)trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. Gross bookings increased 7% in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by lodging gross bookings due to continued strength in our hotel business. Booked room nights for our lodging business increased 9% in 2024 compared to 2023. Revenue margin remained relatively consistent in 2024 compared to 2023. Results of Operations Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment B2C $ 9,274 $ 9,113 $ 8,741 2 % 4 % B2B 4,102 3,388 2,546 21 % 33 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 315 338 380 (7) % (11) % Total revenue $ 13,691 $ 12,839 $ 11,667 7 % 10 % Revenue increased 7% in 2024 compared to 2023, on strong growth in our B2B segment resulting from increased lodging revenue. Year Ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Revenue by Service Type Lodging $ 10,950 $ 10,264 $ 8,905 7 % 15 % Air 428 410 362 4 % 13 % Advertising and media(1) 954 821 777 16 % 6 % Other 1,359 1,344 1,623 1 % (17) % Total revenue $ 13,691 $ 12,839 $ 11,667 7 % 10 % ___________________________________ (1)Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Lodging revenue increased 7% in 2024 primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed mostly in our hotel business. Air revenue increased 4% in 2024 primarily due to an increase in air tickets sold. Advertising and media revenue increased 16% in 2024 due to an increase at Expedia Group Media Solutions, partially offset by a decline in trivago revenue. All other revenue, which includes car rental, insurance, cruise and activities, remained relatively consistent in 2024 as compared to 2023. 36 Table of Contents In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 9,439 $ 8,818 $ 7,762 7 % 14 % Agency 3,169 3,075 2,994 3 % 3 % Advertising, media and other 1,083 946 911 14 % 4 % Total revenue $ 13,691 $ 12,839 $ 11,667 7 % 10 % The increase in merchant revenue in 2024 was primarily due to an increase in merchant hotel revenue. The increase in agency revenue in 2024 was primarily due to an increase in agency hotel and air revenue. Advertising, media and other increased 14% in 2024 compared to 2023 primarily due to an increase in Expedia Media Solutions advertising revenue. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 1,143 $ 1,233 $ 1,353 (7) % (9) % Personnel and overhead 300 340 304 (12) % 12 % Total cost of revenue $ 1,443 $ 1,573 $ 1,657 (8) % (5) % % of revenue 10.5 % 12.3 % 14.2 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of direct costs to support our customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors; credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks; and other costs, primarily including data center and cloud costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain transactional level taxes as well as related personnel and overhead costs, including stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue decreased $130 million during 2024 compared to 2023, primarily due to lower costs from ongoing initiatives to drive transactional efficiencies. Selling and Marketing - Direct and Indirect Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Selling and marketing - direct $ 6,846 $ 6,107 $ 5,428 12 % 13 % % of revenue 50.0 % 47.6 % 46.5 % Selling and marketing - indirect 781 756 672 3 % 12 % % of revenue 5.7 % 5.9 % 5.8 % Selling and marketing - direct costs primarily include traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. Selling and marketing - indirect costs include personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing - direct increased $739 million during 2024 compared to 2023 primarily driven by an increase in B2B partner commissions to support strong growth and a ramp in marketing spend at Vrbo and international markets to drive improving growth and global market expansion. Selling and marketing - indirect costs increased during 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by an increase in average salaries and headcount. 37 Table of Contents Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 949 $ 999 $ 874 (5) % 14 % Other 365 359 307 2 % 17 % Total technology and content $ 1,314 $ 1,358 $ 1,181 (3) % 15 % % of revenue 9.6 % 10.6 % 10.1 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, including stock-based compensation, as well as other costs including cloud expense and licensing and maintenance expense. Technology and content expense decreased $44 million for 2024 compared to 2023 primarily due to lower personnel costs in connection with previously announced cost saving initiatives, partially offset by higher stock-based compensation. General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 638 $ 618 $ 591 3 % 5 % Professional fees and other 167 153 157 9 % (2) % Total general and administrative $ 805 $ 771 $ 748 4 % 3 % % of revenue 5.9 % 6.0 % 6.4 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions and related stock-based compensation, as well as fees for external professional services. General and administrative expense increased $34 million in 2024 compared to 2023 due to higher stock-based compensation of $21 million, including the acceleration of stock-compensation expense related to the current year departure of our Vice Chairman, as well as an increase in professional fees. Depreciation and Amortization Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Depreciation $ 781 $ 748 $ 704 4 % 6 % Amortization of intangible assets 57 59 88 (4) % (33) % Total depreciation and amortization $ 838 $ 807 $ 792 4 % 2 % Depreciation increased $33 million in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily as a result of increased depreciation related to capitalized website development costs. Amortization of intangible assets remained consistent in 2024 compared to 2023. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During 2024, we recognized intangible impairment charges of $147 million related to indefinite-lived trade names within our B2C and trivago segments. During 2023, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $297 million related to our trivago segment, as well as intangible impairment charges of $129 million related to indefinite-lived trade names within our B2C and trivago segments. During 2022, we recognized intangible impairment charges of $81 million related to an indefinite-lived trade name within our trivago segment. See NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 38 Table of Contents Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ 118 $ 8 $ 23 N/A (67) % Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other primarily consists of increases in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other items and legal reserves. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other for the year ended December 31, 2024 primarily included a $107 million charge related to an Italian VAT settlement reserve, a $30 million charge related to digital service taxes for fiscal years 2022 and 2023 retroactively enacted by Canada in June 2024, and our donation of $20 million as part of a public-private partnership project to revitalize public parks along the Elliot Bay waterfront in Seattle. These charges were partially offset by net reductions to our reserve of $43 million related to hotel occupancy and other taxes due to the favorable resolution of two tax related cases. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily included changes to our reserve related to other taxes. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other for the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily included charges related to certain other legal reserves for trivago. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In February 2024, we committed to restructuring actions to recalibrate resources as most of the Companys organizational and technological transformation is now completed, which have resulted in headcount reductions. As a result, we recognized $80 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2024, which were predominately related to employee severance, stock-based compensation and benefits costs. Based on current plans which are subject to change, we expect reorganization charges could continue under our previously announced $80 million to $100 million plan into 2025. These costs could be higher or lower should we make additional decisions in future periods that impact our reorganization efforts. Operating Income Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Operating income $ 1,319 $ 1,033 $ 1,085 28 % (5) % % of revenue 9.6 % 8.0 % 9.3 % In 2024, the increase in operating income was primarily due to growth in revenue in excess of operating costs and lower impairment charges in the current periods, partially offset by the higher legal reserves, occupancy tax and other charges as well as the restructuring charges discussed above. Adjusted EBITDA by Segment Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) B2C $ 2,434 $ 2,325 $ 2,124 5 % 10 % B2B 1,028 798 599 29 % 33 % trivago 11 56 113 (80) % (50) % Unallocated overhead costs (Corporate) (539) (499) (487) 8 % 3 % Total Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 2,934 $ 2,680 $ 2,349 9 % 14 % ______________________________________ (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See "Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA" below for more information. Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment operating metric. See NOTE 17 Segment Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on intersegment transactions, unallocated overhead costs and for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by segment to net income attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. for the periods presented above. 39 Table of Contents Our B2C segment Adjusted EBITDA increased in 2024 compared to 2023 as a result of revenue growth as well as cost efficiencies in cost of revenue and lower technology expenses, partially offset by an increase in direct marketing spend as we reinvested back into Vrbo and our international markets to drive improving growth and market expansion. Our B2B segment experienced an improvement in Adjusted EBITDA in 2024 compared to 2023 primarily as a result of strong revenue growth. Our trivago segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased in 2024 compared to 2023 as a result of revenue declines resulting from headwinds in its performance marketing channels and an increase in marketing costs. Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Interest income 235 $ 207 $ 60 14 % 244 % Interest expense (246) (245) (277) % (12) % Gain on debt extinguishment, net 49 N/A N/A Interest income increased in 2024 compared to 2023 as a result of higher rates of return. Interest expense remained consistent in 2024 compared to 2023. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (In millions) Foreign exchange rate losses, net $ (66) $ (85) $ (40) Gains (losses) on minority equity investments, net 289 16 (345) TripAdvisor tax indemnification adjustment 6 67 Gain on sale of businesses and investments, net 5 25 6 Total other, net $ 234 $ 23 $ (379) For further information on our gains (losses) on minority equity investments, net, see NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. In 2023, we recognized a $67 million gain, which together with amounts recorded in a prior period, represented the estimate of an indemnification reimbursement due to Expedia Group from TripAdvisor. In 2024, we recognized a $6 million gain related to the same matter. See Provision for Income Taxes below for a discussion of a corresponding charges to income tax expense as well as NOTE 10 Income Taxesin the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 318 $ 330 $ 195 (4) % 69 % Effective tax rate 20.6 % 32.4 % 36.2 % Our effective tax rate for 2024 was broadly in line with the 21% U.S. federal statutory income tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2023 was higher than the 21% U.S. federal statutory income tax rate due to the non-deductible goodwill impairment and TripAdvisor audit assessment, partially offset by research and experimentation credits. For additional information, see NOTE 10 Income Taxesin the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax filings are regularly examined by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities. For tax years 2011 to 2013 and 2014 and 2016, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued final adjustments related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries. The 2011 to 2013 adjustments would result in federal income tax of approximately $244 million, subject to interest. The 2014 to 2016 adjustments would result in federal income tax of approximately $431 million, subject to interest. We do not agree with these adjustments and will continue to vigorously defend our position through administrative procedures. We are also under examination by the IRS for tax years 2017 to 2020. 40 Table of Contents In December 2021, the OECD released model rules introducing a 15% global minimum tax rate for large multinational corporations (Pillar Two). Certain countries in which we operate have enacted legislation consistent with the OECD model rules effective beginning in 2024. We considered the applicable tax laws in relevant jurisdictions and concluded there is no material effect on our tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2024. The Company will continue to evaluate the potential effect of Pillar Two on future reporting periods. For more detail on our tax risk factors, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - A failure to comply with current laws, rules, and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business, financial performance, results of operations or business growth, Application of existing tax laws, rules, or regulations are subject to interpretation by taxing authorities, and We could be subject to changes in tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation, or exposure to additional tax liabilities. Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Adjusted EBITDA is among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a description of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included above, in the Legal Proceedings section, as well as the notes to the financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measure used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. adjusted for (1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests; (2) provision for income taxes; (3) total other expenses, net; (4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (5) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, if any, and (iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, if any; (6) certain other items, including restructuring; (7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other; (8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and (9) depreciation. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. 41 Table of Contents The reconciliation of net income attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 (In millions) Net income attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. $ 1,234 $ 797 $ 352 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (109) (9) Provision for income taxes 318 330 195 Total other (income) expense, net (223) 15 547 Operating income 1,319 1,033 1,085 Gain (loss) on revenue hedges related to revenue recognized (18) (7) (6) Restructuring and related reorganization charges, excluding stock-based compensation 72 Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other 118 8 23 Stock-based compensation 458 413 374 Depreciation and amortization 838 807 792 Impairment of goodwill 297 Impairment of intangible assets 147 129 81 Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,934 $ 2,680 $ 2,349 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are typically cash flows generated from operations, cash available under our credit facility as well as our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $4.5 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31, 2024 and 2023. Our revolving credit facility with aggregate commitments of $2.5 billion was essentially untapped at December 31, 2024. As of December 31, 2024, the total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $625 million ($472 million in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and $153 million in majority-owned subsidiaries). Most of our foreign undistributed earnings have already been subject to U.S. federal income tax. We do not assert indefinite reinvestment on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of December 31, 2024, Moodys rating was Baa2 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of positive. In January 2025, Fitch upgraded our credit rating from BBB- to BBB with a stable outlook." Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets and interest rates on our 6.25% senior notes, 4.625% senior notes as well as our 2.95% senior notes will increase, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2024, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt as detailed in NOTE 7 Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant lodging business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. Typically, the seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings have affected the timing of our annual cash flows. Generally, during the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern typically reverses and cash flows are typically negative. 42 Table of Contents Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2024 2023 2022 2024 vs 2023 2023 vs 2022 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 3,085 $ 2,690 $ 3,440 $ 395 $ (750) Investing activities (1,262) (800) (580) (462) (220) Financing activities (1,745) (2,096) (2,624) 351 528 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (165) 16 (190) (181) 206 In 2024, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $395 million primarily due to higher operating income after adjusting for impacts from depreciation, amortization and intangible asset impairments as well as increased benefits from working capital changes, including growth in deferred merchant bookings. These benefits were partially offset by Italian VAT settlement payments and restructure payments in the current year. In 2024, we had net cash used in investing activities of $1.3 billion compared to $800 million in the prior year. The change was primarily due to net purchases of investments in 2024 compared to net sales and maturities of investments in the prior year, partially offset by lower current year capital expenditures. Cash used in financing activities in 2024 primarily included $1.8 billion of cash paid to acquire shares, including the repurchased shares under repurchase programs and for treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments, partially offset by $116 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. Cash used in financing activities in 2023 primarily included payments of $2.1 billion of cash paid to acquire shares, including the repurchased shares under repurchase programs discussed below and for treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments, partially offset by $101 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. In 2018 and 2019, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee of the Board, pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Board, authorized a program to repurchase up to 15 million shares and 20 million shares of our common stock (the 2018 Share Repurchase Program and the 2019 Share Repurchase Program). In October 2023, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors, pursuant to a delegation of authority from the Board, authorized an additional program to repurchase up to $5 billion of our common stock (2023 Share Repurchase Program). The 2018 and 2019 Share Repurchase Programs have been completed. Our 2023Share Repurchase Program does not have fixed expiration dates and does not obligate the Company to acquire any specific number of shares. Under the program, shares may be repurchased in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. The timing, manner, price and amount of any repurchases will be subject to the discretion of the Company and depend on a variety of factors, including the market price of Expedia Groups common stock, general market and economic conditions, regulatory requirements and other business considerations. Shares repurchased under the authorized programs were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2024 2023 2022 Number of shares repurchased 12.1 million 19.1 million 5.2 million Average price per share $ 133.85 $ 106.07 $ 96.09 Total cost of repurchases (in millions)(1) $ 1,616 $ 2,031 $ 500 ______________________________________ (1)Amount excludes transaction costs and excise tax due under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. As of December 31, 2024, $3.2 billion remain authorized for repurchase under the 2023 Share Repurchase Program. During 2024, 2023 and 2022, we didn't pay any common stock dividends. On February 3, 2025, the Board of Directors approved the reinstatement of quarterly common stock dividends, and on February 4, 2025, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.40 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 27, 2025 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 6, 2025. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in a decrease of our cash and restricted cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2024 of $165 million reflecting a net depreciation in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar during the year. Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in an increase of our cash and restricted cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2023 of $16 million reflecting a net appreciation in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar during the year. 43 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments. Our material cash requirements as of December 31, 2024 include the following contractual obligations and commercial commitments arising in the normal course of business: Principal payments related to our debt that is included in our consolidated balance sheet and the related periodic interest payments. The Company had Senior Notes and Convertible Notes, as described in NOTE 7 Debt in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, with varying maturities and an aggregate principal amount of $6.3 billion, $1 billion of which is payable within 12 months. On January 24, 2025, Expedia Group provided notice that we would redeem all of our approximately $1 billion in 6.25% Senior Notes due 2025 with a stated redemption date of February 8, 2025. Based on current stated fixed rates, future interest payments associated with the Senior Notes total approximately $645 million, with approximately $198 million payable within 12 months; Our operating leases had fixed lease payment obligations, including imputed interest, of $371 million, with $74 million payable within 12 months; and Purchase obligations representing the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods, and payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. The Company had purchase obligations of $495 million, with $252 million payable within 12 months. In addition, we had $331 million of net unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2024, for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. See NOTE 15 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information related to our purchase obligations as well as amounts outstanding as of December 31, 2024 related to letters of credit and guarantees. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2024. In our opinion, our liquidity position provides sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable cash needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see NOTE 16 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Summarized Financial Information for Guarantors and the Issuer of Guaranteed Securities Summarized financial information of Expedia Group, Inc. (the Parent) and our subsidiaries that are guarantors of our debt facility and instruments (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) is shown below on a combined basis as the Obligor Group. The debt facility and instruments are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees are full, unconditional, joint and several with the exception of certain customary automatic subsidiary release provisions. In this summarized financial information of the Obligor Group, all intercompany balances and transactions between the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated and all information excludes subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors of our debt facility and instruments, including earnings from and investments in these entities. December 31, 2024 (In millions) Combined Balance Sheets Information: Current Assets $ 7,996 Non-Current Assets 10,495 Current Liabilities(1) 14,129 Non-Current Liabilities 5,744 Year Ended December 31, 2024 Combined Statements of Operations Information: Revenue $ 10,520 Operating income (2) 915 Net income 719 Net income attributable to Obligors 729 44 Table of Contents (1)Current liabilities include intercompany payables with non-guarantors of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2024. (2)Operating income includes intercompany income with non-guarantors of $710 million for the year ended December 31, 2024. Part II.