Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com tm , Travelocity , Expedia Affiliate Network (EAN), Classic Vacations , Expedia Local Expert tm , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia , eLong tm , Venere Net SpA (Venere), trivago GmbH (trivago), CarRentals.com tm and Wotif.com Holdings Limited (Wotif Group). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale, including those as part of Air Asia-Expedia. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2013 and 2014 represented years of continuing improvement for the travel industry. However, natural disasters and severe weather conditions, health-related risks such as Ebola, geopolitical conflicts, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues and macroeconomic concerns are examples of events that contribute to a somewhat uncertain environment, which could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. 23 Table of Contents Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2014, approximately 60% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occur online, compared with approximately 50% of European travel. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions are lagging behind that of Europe, and are estimated to be in the range of 20% to 25%. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (which The Priceline Group acquired in May 2013), trivago (in which Expedia acquired a majority ownership interest in March 2013) as well as TripAdvisor (which completed its conversion to a metasearch site in June 2013), introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies. In addition, certain metasearch companies adopted or intend to adopt various forms of direct or assisted-booking tools the impact of which is currently uncertain. Furthermore, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations, licensing deals and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google. Finally, traditional consumer eCommerce and group buying websites, such as Amazon and Groupon, have been expanding their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their sites. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency hotel (Hotel Collect) offerings for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve. Beginning in 2012, Expedia rolled out the ETP program to hotel suppliers globally. ETP offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. Intense competition also historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is less favorable than that for our consolidated business, but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. In addition to aggressive sales and marketing efforts, our subsidiary eLong has been investing heavily in mobile product, technology and supply development as well as engaging in discounting and couponing activity, which is expected to result in increasing operating losses in the Chinese market as they attempt to grow market share and remain competitive. The crowded online travel environment is now driving certain secondary and tertiary online travel companies to establish marketing agreements with global players in order to leverage distribution and technology capabilities while focusing resources on capturing consumer mind share. Hotel We generate the majority of our revenue through the marketing and distribution of hotel rooms (stand-alone and package bookings). Although our relationships with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years, as part of the global rollout of ETP, we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, which has negatively impacted the margin of revenue we earn per booking. In addition, as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced and expect to continue to reduce our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. Lastly, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had a negative effect on unit economics due to unfavorable book-to-stay as well as translation impacts. Based on these dynamics, our average revenue per room night declined in each quarter of 2013, 2014 and for the first quarter of 2015 and we expect it to remain under pressure in the future. All of these impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. 24 Table of Contents Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in average daily rates (ADRs) has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry have generally increased in a gradually improving overall travel environment. Currently occupancy rates are above 2007 peaks and there is very little new, net hotel supply being added in the U.S. lodging market with large chains focusing their development opportunities in international markets. This may help hoteliers with their objective of continuing to grow ADRs and tends to lead to pressure in our negotiations and terms with hoteliers. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a much faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. Recently, our reported international ADRs have also been unfavorably impacted in many regions by the strengthening U.S. dollar. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with approximately 510,000 properties on our global websites, including eLong, as of December 31, 2014. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights growing 23% in 2013, 26% in 2014, and 32% for the first quarter of 2015. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites were essentially flat in 2013, increased 2% in 2014, and declined 2% for the first quarter of 2015. Air The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil, including significant air carrier consolidation in the United States, which has generally resulted in lower overall capacity and higher fares. As the demand for travel continued to increase in 2014, air carriers kept capacity growth relatively low. The significant decline in fuel prices in the second half of 2014 did not translate into reduced air fares, resulting in record levels of profitability for the U.S. air carriers, further strengthening their position. Ticket prices on Expedia sites increased 1% in 2013, remained flat in 2014 and declined 7% for the first quarter of 2015. We continue to encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine and as certain supply agreements renew. Air ticket volumes increased 18% for the first quarter of 2015 primarily due to strong growth on Brand Expedia sites. Air volumes improved 28% in 2014 primarily due to volume driven by Brand Expedias marketing agreement with Travelocity along with ongoing improvements for the Brand Expedia sites themselves. Air volumes improved 9% in 2013 largely due to strong growth in corporate ticket volumes at Egencia. From a product perspective in the first quarter of 2015, 66% of our revenue came from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with 10% of our revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We believe that the hotel product is the most profitable of the products we distribute and represents our best overall growth opportunity. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch site, in addition to Expedia Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In the first quarter of 2015, we generated a total of $122 million of advertising and media revenue representing 9% of total revenue for the quarter, up from $99 million in the first quarter of 2014. Growth Strategy Product Innovation . Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. They each operate a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and help customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched new global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates, for those brands. In 2013, Expedia signed an agreement to power the technology, supply, and customer service platforms for Travelocity-branded sites in the United States and Canada, enabling Expedia to leverage its investments in each of these key areas. The shift of Travelocity-branded sites to the Expedia technology platform was successfully completed over the course of 2014. In November 2014, Expedia completed the acquisition of Wotif Group and subsequently converted the Wotif.com site to the Expedia platform. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and 25 Table of Contents other associated assets from Sabre. The strategic marketing and other related agreements previously entered into were terminated. In February 2015, Expedia announced it has entered into a definitive agreement under which it plans to acquire Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. (Orbitz), including all of its brands. The proposed acquisition of Orbitz is consistent with our strategy to own and power the best travel brands in the world. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, EAN, and Hotwire brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. We own a majority share of eLong, a leading online travel company in China. We also own Venere, a European brand, which focuses on marketing hotel rooms in Southern Europe. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in more than 60 countries around the world and continues to expand, including its 2012 acquisition of VIA Travel. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading hotel metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe. trivago continues to operate independently, and plans to rapidly grow revenue through global expansion, including aggressive expansion in the United States and Canada, among other countries. In the first quarter of 2015, approximately 41% of our worldwide gross bookings and 44% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 22% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating at least 65% of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States. During July 2014, we completed the acquisition of Auto Escape Group, one of Europes leading online car rental reservation companies. Auto Escape Group has joined with the CarRentals.com brand, allowing it to expand internationally to provide our customers more choices across the globe and help our supply partners expand their marketing reach. During November 2014, we completed the acquisition of Wotif Group, an Australian online travel company. Wotif Group adds to our collection of travels most trusted brands and enhances our supply in the Asia-Pacific region, while allowing Expedia to expose the Wotif Group to our world-class technology and its customers to our extensive global supply. During January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. As a result of the acquisition, the strategic marketing agreement previously entered into during 2013, which joined Travelocitys strong brand with our best-in-class booking platform, supply base, and customer service, was terminated. Evolving this relationship strengthens Expedia, Inc.s ability to continue to innovate and deliver the best travel experiences to the widest set of travelers, all over the world. In March 2015, Expedia acquired a controlling interest in the former joint venture with AirAsia, a low cost carrier serving the Asia-Pacific region, to purchase an additional 25% equity interest of the joint venture we formed with them in 2011. This investment will increase our total ownership in the venture to 75% and we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. Following the close of the transaction in March 2015, the financial results of the AirAsia-Expedia venture are included in Expedias consolidated financial statements. In March 2015, Expedia and Decolar.com, Inc., the Latin American online travel company that operates the Decolar.com and Despegar.com branded websites, announced that the two companies have expanded their partnership to include deeper cooperation on hotel supply and a minority equity investment by Expedia. Building on the commercial relationship the two companies have had since 2002, the expanded agreement broadens Expedias powering of Decolars hotel supply and introduces the opportunity for Decolar to provide Expedia access to its hotel supply in Latin America. The customers of both companies will benefit from the broad, shared selection of hotels, and hotel partners will gain increased access to travelers in Latin America and around the world. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search 26 Table of Contents query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements in conversion. New Channel Penetration . Today, the majority of online travel bookings are generated through typical desktop and laptop computers. However, technological innovations and developments are creating new opportunities including travel bookings made through mobile devices. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile/tablet applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends. We believe mobile bookings via smartphones present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed within one or two days of the travel or stay, which is a much shorter booking window than we have historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. During the last few years, customers behaviors and preferences on tablet devices began to show differences from trends seen on smartphones. For example, the booking window on a smartphone typically is much shorter than the emerging trend on the tablet device and historical average on a desktop or laptop. In addition, we are seeing increasing cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe in the future mobile is likely to represent an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During the first quarter of 2015, more than one in four Expedia, Inc. transactions was booked globally on a mobile device. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel products, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, are experienced in the second half of the year as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we aggressively market during the busy booking period for summer travel. As a result, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and on other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 27 Table of Contents Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in twenty-nine lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: Hawaii (General Excise Tax and Transient Accommodation Tax). The Hawaii Supreme Court held that transient accommodation taxes are not due on the online travel companies services and, with respect to general excise taxes, the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest on the amount paid to them for their services, along with penalties, but are not liable for general excise taxes, interest or penalties on the amount paid to the hotel for the hotel room. City of Columbia, South Carolina, et al. Litigation. The court entered an order approving the class action settlement. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $61 million as of March 31, 2015, and $62 million as of December 31, 2014. It is also reasonably possible that amounts paid in connection with the settlement or adjudication of these issues could include up to an additional $31 million relating to interest payments in one jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina, Minnesota and Oregon, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including to the state of New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, the District of Columbia and the city of New York, as well as certain other county and local jurisdictions. Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. Hawaii Tax Court Litigation (General Excise Tax). On January 31, 2011, the online travel companies received final notices from the Hawaii Department of Taxation of assessment for general excise taxes for the tax years 2000 to 2011 on their services relating to non-commissioned hotel room reservations. The companies appealed these assessments. On January 11, 2013, the Hawaii tax court ruled that the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest on both the amount paid to the online travel companies for their services and the amount paid to the hotel for the room; thus subjecting the hotels charge for the room to double taxation because general excise taxes on the hotel room had already been paid for all of the years at issue. The online travel companies appealed the tax court ruling. On March 17, 2015, the Hawaii Supreme Court issued a decision on the pending appeal. The Court affirmed in part and reversed in part the Hawaii tax courts decision. The Court ruled that while the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest on the amount paid to them for their services, along with penalties, the online travel companies are not liable for general excise taxes, interest or penalties on the amount paid to the hotel for the hotel room. In addition to the above assessment, on May 20, 2013, the Department of Taxation issued final assessments for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies for non-commissioned hotel reservations totaling $20.5 million for the tax year 2012. On June 17, 2013, the online travel companies appealed these assessments to the Hawaii tax court. On December 13, 2013, the tax court held proceedings in abeyance pending review and decision by the Hawaii Supreme Court on the prior assessments. Further proceedings will now take place as a result of the Hawaii Supreme Court decision. 28 Table of Contents On December 9, 2013, the Department of Taxation issued final assessments for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies for non-commissioned travel agency services relating to rental cars totaling $29.2 million for the tax years 2000 through 2012. These assessments include a duplicative assessment for Expedia and Hotels.com totaling $9.3 million and thus are overstated. The online travel companies appealed the assessments to the Hawaii tax court. On March 12, 2014, the online travel companies requested that the tax court stay consideration of these assessments pending the decision by the Hawaii Supreme Court relating to the Department of Taxations claimed right to taxes for non-commissioned travel agency services relating to hotel room reservations. On April 28, 2014, the tax court granted the online travel companies request that the court stay consideration of the Department of Taxations car rental assessments pending a decision by the Hawaii Supreme Court. Further proceedings will now take place as a result of the Hawaii Supreme Court decision. On July 18, 2014, the Department of Taxation issued final general excise tax assessments totaling $28.5 million against the Expedia companies for non-commissioned travel agency services relating to hotel reservations and car rental for the tax year 2013. The Expedia companies contested these assessments and requested additional information from the Department of Taxation regarding the basis for the amounts assessed. On December 22, 2014, the tax court stayed consideration of these assessments pending review and decision by the Hawaii Supreme Court on prior assessments. Further proceedings will now take place as a result of the Hawaii Supreme Court decision. As a pre-condition to appealing the tax court rulings in the Hawaii excise tax proceedings, the Expedia companies were required pay an amount equal to taxes, penalties and interest. During 2012, we expensed $110 million, and during 2013, we expensed an additional $64 million for amounts required or expected to be paid prior to appealing the tax courts ruling. The total amount paid by the Expedia companies to Hawaii in 2013 was $171 million, which was comprised of $78 million in taxes, $41 million in penalties and $52 million in interest. A determination of the amount of taxes due to the State of Hawaii as a result of the Hawaii Supreme Courts decision will be the subject of further court proceedings. Under the Courts ruling, we are entitled to a refund of a majority of the amounts previously paid to the State of Hawaii. San Francisco Litigation. During 2009, we paid $48 million in advance of litigation relating to occupancy tax proceedings with the city of San Francisco. The city of San Francisco subsequently issued additional assessments of tax, penalties and interest for the time period from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2011 against the online travel companies, including against Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire. The additional assessments, including the prepayment of such assessments, were contested by the Expedia companies on the basis that the court has already ruled that taxes are not due from the online travel companies and that binding precedent by the California Court of Appeals precludes the citys claim for taxes. Although the city initially agreed, subject to documentation, that the additional assessments need not be paid and could be placed under a bond, it subsequently sought to collect the additional assessment against the Expedia companies. On May 14, 2014, the court heard oral argument on the Expedia companies contest of the prepayment requirement for the additional assessments and held that the Expedia companies were required to prepay in order to litigate the legality of the assessments. On May 26, 2014, the Expedia companies paid $25.5 million under protest in order to contest the additional assessments. The additional assessments were expensed during the second quarter of 2014. On August 6, 2014, the California Court of Appeals stayed this case pending review and decision by the California Supreme Court of the City of San Diego, California Litigation. Other Jurisdictions. In December 2014, the City of Portland and Multnomah County, Oregon assessed certain online travel companies, including Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, for hotel occupancy taxes for the period October 7, 2013 to December 31, 2014 based on recent amendments to state legislation. On January 9, 2015, as a pre-condition to challenging the assessments, the Expedia companies paid $2.3 million under protest in alleged taxes, penalties and interest. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with domestic and foreign jurisdiction some of which impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. 29 Table of Contents Segments Beginning in the first quarter of 2015, we have four reportable segments: Core Online Travel Companies (Core OTA), trivago, Egencia and eLong. Our Core OTA segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, EAN, Hotwire.com, Travelocity, Venere, Wotif Group, CarRentals.com, and Classic Vacations. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide. Our eLong segment specializes in mobile and online travel services in China. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Core OTA $ 12,907 $ 10,810 19 % trivago (1) N/A Egencia 1,366 1,310 4 % eLong 713 504 41 % Total gross bookings $ 14,986 $ 12,624 19 % Revenue Margin Core OTA 9.1 % 9.3 % trivago (1) N/A N/A Egencia 7.2 % 7.7 % eLong 4.7 % 8.0 % Total revenue margin 9.2 % 9.5 % (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily driven by growth in the Core OTA segment, led by strong performance at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com. Acquisitions added approximately 3% of inorganic gross bookings growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Impacts from acquisitions exclude Travelocity due to the previously implemented commercial agreement. The decrease in revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily due to lower revenue per room night. These impacts were partially offset by a mix shift to higher margin products, including advertising and media revenue, and a favorable impact of lower air ticket prices. 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Core OTA $ 1,170 $ 1,001 17 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 72 59 22 % Egencia 98 100 (2 %) eLong 33 40 (17 %) Total revenue $ 1,373 $ 1,200 14 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily driven by growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com, as well as growth at trivago. Acquisitions added approximately 3% of inorganic revenue growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. The increases were primarily due to a 32% increase in room nights stayed driven by Hotels.com, eLong, Brand Expedia and Wotif Group, partially offset by a 14% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange impact, both in translation and in book-to-stay, promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs, as well as the efforts to expand the size and availability of the global hotel supply portfolio. Revenue per room night is expected to continue to decrease in 2015. ADRs decreased 2% year-over-year in the first quarter of 2015, as currency-neutral ADR growth was offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. ADRs are expected to be negative year-over-year in 2015 primarily due to foreign exchange. Worldwide air revenue increased 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, due to an 18% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 7% decrease in revenue per air ticket. The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, increased by 17% for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to strong growth in advertising and media revenue as well as growth in our travel insurance and car rental products. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 877 $ 782 12 % Agency 374 319 17 % Advertising and media (1) 122 99 23 % Total revenue $ 1,373 $ 1,200 14 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to the growth in agency hotel. 31 Table of Contents Advertising and media revenue increased for the three ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to continued strong growth in revenue at trivago and Expedia Media Solutions. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 136 $ 131 4 % Credit card processing 112 113 (1 %) Data center and other 74 51 45 % Total cost of revenue $ 322 $ 295 9 % % of revenue 23.4 % 24.5 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain pre-purchased hotel supply and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, the increase in cost of revenue expense as compared to the same period in 2014 was driven by $23 million of higher data center and other costs, including the cost of pre-purchased hotel supply at eLong, and increased customer operations expenses of $5 million primarily due to an increase in transaction volumes partially offset by a decrease in chargeback and fraud expenses. Acquisitions added approximately 3% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 610 $ 494 23 % Indirect costs 153 131 17 % Total selling and marketing $ 763 $ 625 22 % % of revenue 55.6 % 52.0 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various Core OTA brands, global supply organization, Egencia and trivago as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $138 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, driven by increases of $116 million of direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, trivago and Travelocity accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increase. In addition, higher personnel expenses of $22 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by the additional personnel due to an accelerated pace of hiring in the lodging supply organization. Acquisitions added approximately 3% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. 32 Table of Contents Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 102 $ 89 16 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 59 50 17 % Other 29 24 20 % Total technology and content $ 190 $ 163 17 % % of revenue 13.9 % 13.6 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. Technology and content expense increased $27 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to increased personnel and overhead costs of $13 million for additional personnel to support key technology projects for Brand Expedia, our corporate technology function and eLong as well as increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $9 million. Acquisitions added approximately 2% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 70 $ 65 8 % Professional fees and other 46 34 35 % Total general and administrative $ 116 $ 99 18 % % of revenue 8.5 % 8.3 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense increased $17 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, due primarily to higher professional fees and other of $12 million driven mostly by an increase in acquisition-related expenses of $8 million and higher stock-based compensation of $2 million. In addition, personnel and overhead expenses increased $5 million. Acquisitions added approximately 4% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2015. 33 Table of Contents Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 25 $ 18 35 % % of revenue 1.8 % 1.5 % Amortization of intangible assets increased $7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions. Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other were $3 million and $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. In the first quarter of 2015, we agreed in principle to settle an insurance claim totaling $25 million for recovery of costs related to occupancy tax litigation matters. The final settlement is expected to be reached in the second quarter of 2015, thus we expect to record an approximate $25 million benefit to Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other in our second quarter 2015 results. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In conjunction with the migration of technology platforms and centralization of technology, supply and other operations, primarily related to acquisition integrations including the Wotif Group, we recognized $5 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during the first quarter ended March 31, 2015 as well as $26 million during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014. We expect approximately $10 million of additional restructuring charges for the remainder of 2015 related to these integrations already underway, but not including any possible future acquisition integrations. For additional information, see Note 9 Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Loss Three months ended March 31 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Operating loss $ (51 ) $ (3 ) N/A % of revenue (3.7 %) (0.2 %) Operating loss increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily due to increased costs and expenses, including growth in selling and marketing expense in excess of revenue growth. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 6 $ 6 (4 %) Interest expense (28 ) (22 ) 28 % 34 Table of Contents Interest income was consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, primarily as a result of additional interest on the $500 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2014. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ 14 $ (6 ) Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment 79 Other 11 6 Total other, net $ 105 $ During the three months ended March 31, 2015, in conjunction with the acquisition of additional interest in one of our equity method investments, we remeasured our previously held equity interest to fair value and recognized a gain of $79 million in other, net. For additional information, see Note 3 Acquisitions and Other Investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (1 ) $ 0 (385 %) Effective tax rate (2.9 %) (1.6 %) We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. We record any changes affecting the estimated annual tax rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to to the tax effect of the noncontrolling investment basis adjustment gain, partially offset by certain foreign losses for which Expedia does not recognize a benefit. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to income earned in foreign jurisdictions where the statutory income tax rate is lower, offset by certain foreign losses for which Expedia does not recognize a benefit as well as revaluation of deferred tax balances due to New York corporate tax reform enacted during the period. The change in the effective rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015, as compared to the same period in 2014, was primarily due to the tax effect of the noncontrolling investment basis adjustment gain in the current period, partially offset by certain foreign losses for which Expedia does not recognize a benefit. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $2.0 billion and $1.8 billion at March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, including $354 million and $369 million of cash and short-term investment balances held in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, which includes $195 million and $190 million related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States, as well as $331 million and $304 million of majority-owned subsidiaries, which is also indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our 35 Table of Contents $1 billion revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2019. As of March 31, 2015, $987 million was available under the facility representing the total $1 billion facility less $13 million of outstanding letters of credit. The revolving credit facility bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 150 basis points, and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 20 basis points as of March 31, 2015. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of March 31, 2015, Moodys rating was Ba1 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of March 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt, which was comprised of $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2018 that bear interest at 7.456%, $750 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2020 that bear interest at 5.95%, and $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2024 that bear interest at 4.5%. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we are using both the merchant model and the agency model in many of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel, advertising or certain Expedia Affiliate Network relationships, or if there are changes to the merchant model, supplier payment terms, or booking patterns that compress the time period between our receipt of cash from travelers and our payment to suppliers, such as with mobile bookings via smartphones, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. For example, we have continued to see positive momentum in the global roll out of the ETP program launched in 2012. As this program continues to expand, and depending on relative traveler and supplier adoption rates and customer payment preferences, among other things, the scaling up of ETP has and will continue to negatively impact near term working capital cash balances, cash flow, relative liquidity during the transition, and hotel revenue margins. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, as well as changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2015, we had a deficit in our working capital of $1.9 billion, compared to a deficit of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2014. The change in deficit is primarily due to use of cash for financing and investing activities, including business acquisitions and share repurchases. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions (including purchases of non-controlling interest), share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our capital expenditures for full year 2015 are expected to increase meaningfully in comparison to 2014 spending levels, due in large part to various real estate projects including our $229 million real estate purchase as discussed below. 36 Table of Contents Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,051 $ 971 $ 80 Investing activities (627 ) (434 ) (193 ) Financing activities (27 ) (78 ) 51 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (65 ) 3 (68 ) For the three months ended March 31, 2015, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $80 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes driven mostly from a change in deferred merchant bookings, partially offset by higher cash paid for taxes, restructuring and related reorganization liabilities and interest. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in investing activities increased by $193 million primarily due to a increase of cash used for acquisitions of $326 million, partially offset by lower net purchases of investments of $149 million. On March 31, 2015, we announced our intention to purchase multiple office and lab buildings located in Seattle, Washington from Immunex Corporation. We are acquiring the property for a purchase price of $229 million, exclusive of closing costs, which we intend to fund through available cash on hand. Closing occurred during the second quarter of 2015. On February 12, 2015, we announced we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Orbitz for $12.00 per share in cash, representing an enterprise value of approximately $1.6 billion. The Boards of Directors of both companies have approved the transaction, which is subject to approval by the shareholders of a majority of Orbitzs common stock and other customary closing conditions, including applicable regulatory approvals. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, cash used in financing activities primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $45 million and $122 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorizations discussed below, and $23 million and $20 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $29 million and $38 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. In 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. In February 2015, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized an additional repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 0.5 million and 1.7 million shares under these authorization for a total cost of $45 million and $122 million, excluding transaction costs. As of March 31, 2015, 11.2 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under these authorizations with no fixed termination date for the repurchases. In the first quarter 2015 and 2014, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 and $0.15 per share of outstanding common stock. In addition, on April 29, 2015, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.18 per share of outstanding common stock payable on June 18, 2015 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 28, 2015. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency for the three months ended March 31, 2015, compared to the same period in 2014, showed a net change of $68 million reflecting depreciations in foreign currencies in the current year period compared to the prior year period. 37 Table of Contents In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the property purchase and Orbitz agreement discussed above, there have been no other material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2014. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2015 or December 31, 2014. 38 Table of Contents Part I.