Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 (in millions, except for share and per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 5,199 $ 12,067 $ 11,223 $ 10,060 $ 8,774 Operating income (loss) (2,719) 903 714 625 462 Net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. common stockholders (2,687) 565 406 378 282 Earnings (loss) per share attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ (19.00) $ 3.84 $ 2.71 $ 2.49 $ 1.87 Diluted (19.00) 3.77 2.65 2.42 1.82 Shares used in computing earnings (loss) per share (000's): Basic 141,414 147,194 149,961 151,619 150,367 Diluted 141,414 149,884 152,889 156,385 154,517 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.34 $ 1.32 $ 1.24 $ 1.16 $ 1.00 December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working capital (deficit) $ 228 $ (2,979) $ (2,863) $ (2,339) $ (2,677) Total assets 18,690 21,416 18,033 18,516 15,778 Senior notes debt (1) 8,216 4,938 3,717 4,249 3,159 Non-redeemable non-controlling interest 1,494 1,569 1,547 1,606 1,561 Total stockholders equity 3,004 5,536 5,651 6,129 5,693 ___________________________________ (1) Includes current and long-term portion of senior notes. 30 Table of Contents Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia Group's mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We help reduce the barriers to travel, making it easier, more enjoyable, more attainable and more accessible. We bring the world within reach for customers and partners around the globe. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to orchestrate the movement of people and the delivery of travel experiences on both a local and global basis. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, activities and experiences providers, cruise lines, alternative accommodations property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 items and year over year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of the year ended December 31, 2018 items and the year over year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The COVID-19 pandemic, and measures to contain the virus, including government travel restrictions and quarantine orders, have had a significant negative impact on the travel industry. COVID-19 has negatively impacted consumer sentiment and consumers ability to travel, and many of our supply partners, particularly airlines and hotels, continue to operate at reduced service levels. As the spread of the virus has been contained to varying degrees in certain countries, some travel restrictions have been lifted and consumers have become more comfortable traveling, particularly to domestic locations. This has led to a moderation of the declines in travel bookings and in cancellation rates compared to the March and April 2020 time period. However, travel booking volume remains significantly below prior year levels and cancellation levels remain elevated compared to pre-COVID levels. The degree of containment of the virus, and the recovery in travel, has varied country by country. During the recovery period, there have been instances where cases of COVID-19 have started to increase again after a period of decline, which in some cases impacted the recovery of travel in certain countries. While many countries have begun the process of vaccinating their residents against COVID-19, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing t he vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine against new variants of the virus, may contribute to delays in economic recovery. COVID-19 has also had broader economic impacts, including an increase in unemployment levels and reduction in economic activity, which could lead to recession and further reduction in consumer or business spending on travel activities, which may negatively impact the timing and level of a recovery in travel demand. Broader, sustained negative economic impacts could also put strain on our suppliers, business and service partners which increases the risk of credit losses and service level or other disruptions. Our financial and operating results for 2020 were significantly impacted due to the decrease in travel demand related to COVID-19. We expect the impact to the overall travel market, and our business, to continue into 2021. The full duration and total impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and it is difficult to predict how the recovery will unfold for the travel industry and, in particular, our business. Additionally, further health-related events, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues, and natural disasters, are examples of other events that could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Prior to the onset of COVID-19, we began to execute a cost savings initiative aimed at simplifying the organization and increasing efficiency. Following the onset of COVID-19, we accelerated execution on several of these cost savings initiatives and took additional actions to reduce costs to help mitigate the impact to demand from COVID-19 and reduce our monthly cash usage. While some cost actions during COVID-19 are temporary and intended to minimize cash usage during this disruption, we expect to continue to benefit from the majority of the savings when business conditions return to more normalized levels. Overall, we now expect annualized run-rate fixed cost savings of $700 to $750 million, and we continue to evaluate additional opportunities to increase efficiency and improve operational effectiveness across the Company. In addition to the actions to reduce fixed costs, we are executing initiatives to reduce certain variable costs and improve our marketing efficiency. 31 Table of Contents As a result of these cost savings initiatives, we expect Adjusted EBITDA margins to increase compared to historical levels when revenue returns to more normalized levels. For additional information about our business strategy for Expedia Group, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Marketing Opportunity and Business Strategy. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet are driving rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2019, approximately 45% of U.S. and European leisure and unmanaged corporate travel expenditures occurred online. This figure was estimated to reach approximately 50% in 2020, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe. These penetration rates increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which presents an attractive growth opportunity for our business, while also attracting many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, we see increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies such as Google, evidenced by continued product enhancements, including new trip planning features for users and the integration of its various travel products into the Google Travel offering, as well as further prioritizing its own products in search results. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (owned by Booking Holdings), trivago (in which Expedia Group owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools. Further, airlines and lodging companies are aggressively pursuing direct online distribution of their products and services. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Businesses such as Airbnb, Vrbo (previously HomeAway, which Expedia Group acquired in December 2015) and Booking.com (owned by Booking Holdings) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Finally, traditional consumer ecommerce and group buying websites expanded their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their websites. The online travel industry also saw the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia Group facilitates both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings with our hotel supply partners through both agency-only contracts as well as our hybrid ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. We have recently shifted to managing our marketing investments holistically across the brand portfolio in our Retail segment to optimize results for the Company, and making decisions on a market by market and customer segment basis that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. Over time, intense competition historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. During 2020, we have increased our focus on opportunities to differentiate brands across customer and geographic segments, increase marketing efficiency, drive a higher proportion of transactions through direct channels and ultimately improve the balance of transaction growth and profitability. For more detail, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing and Our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. Lodging Lodging includes hotel accommodations and alternative accommodations. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2020, lodging accounted for 78%. As a result of the impact on travel demand from the COVID-19 outbreak, room nights declined 55% in 2020 as compared to growth of 11% in 2019 and 13% in 2018. The timing of recovery in consumer sentiment on travel and on staying at hotels will be a factor in our level of room night growth, and as noted above, we expect that to vary by country. Average Daily Rates (ADRs) for rooms booked on Expedia Group websites increased 5% in 2018, decreased 1% in 2019, and increased 3% in 2020. During 2020, the year-over-year increase in ADRs for our Vrbo business remained elevated compared to years prior to the COVID-19 outbreak and Vrbo, which carries a higher ADR than hotels, accounted for a higher percentage of room nights due to the faster recovery in alternative accommodations during this period. This was partially offset by declines in hotel ADRs. The uncertain environment related to COVID-19, and the potential for a higher degree of discounting activity due to the lower travel demand, could result in continued hotel ADR declines for a period of time. Similarly, fluctuations in supply and 32 Table of Contents demand for alternative accommodations, could impact ADRs for Vrbo. In addition, travel restrictions and shift in consumer behavior during COVID-19 that impact the mix of our lodging bookings across geographies and types of accommodations could impact total ADRs. Given these dynamics, it is difficult to predict ADR trends in the near-term. As of December 31, 2020, our global lodging marketplace had over 2.9 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings and approximately 880,000 hotels. Hotel. We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). After rolling out ETP globally over a period of several years, during which time we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, our relationships and overall economics with hotel supply partners have been broadly stable in recent years. As we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night and profitability. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, with certain travel restrictions and quarantine orders implemented due to COVID-19, current occupancy rates for hotels in the United States are at significantly reduced levels and ADRs could decline for a period of time. In addition, other factors could pressure ADR trends, including the continued growth in hotel supply in recent years and the increase in alternative accommodation inventory. Further, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. Alternative Accommodations. With our acquisition of Vrbo (previously HomeAway) and all of its brands in December 2015, we expanded into the fast growing alternative accommodations market. Vrbo is a leader in this market and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia Group. Vrbo has transitioned from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. Vrbo offers hosts subscription-based listing or pay-per-booking service models. It also generates revenue from a traveler service fee for bookings. In addition, we have actively moved to integrate Vrbo listings into our global Retail services, as well as directly add alternative accommodation listings to our offerings, to position our key global brands to offer a full range of lodging options for consumers. Air The airline industry has been dramatically impacted by COVID-19. As a result of the significantly reduced air travel demand due to government travel restrictions and the impact on consumer sentiment related to COVID-19, airlines have been operating with less capacity and passenger traffic has declined significantly. During the third and fourth quarter of 2020, air passenger traffic declines further moderated and remained stable, but continue to lag the recover in lodging bookings. The recovery in air travel remains difficult to predict, and may not correlate with the recovery in lodging demand. According to the Transportation Security Administration (TSA), air traveler 7-day average throughput declined 95% in April 2020 compared to prior year levels. The declines moderated to down 73% in mid-July 2020 and have largely stabilized in the 60 to 65% range since mid-October. In addition, as of late November, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) expected airline passenger traffic to increase approximately 55% in 2021 compared to 2020 levels, representing a decline of nearly 40% compared to 2019 levels. In addition, there is significant correlation between airline revenue and fuel prices, and fluctuations in fuel prices generally take time to be reflected in air revenue. Given current volatility, it is uncertain how fuel prices could impact airfares. We could encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine, certain supply agreements renew, and as we continue to add airlines to ensure local coverage in new markets. Air ticket volumes increased 5% in 2018 and 7% in 2019, and declined 63% in 2020. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2020, air accounted for 2%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch website, and Expedia Group Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In 2020, we generated $ 405 million of advertising and media revenue, a 63% decline from 2019, representing 8% of our total worldwide revenue. Given the decline in travel demand related to COVID-19, online travel agencies have 33 Table of Contents dramatically reduced marketing spend, including on trivago, and given the uncertain duration and impact of COVID-19 it is difficult to predict when spend will recover to normalized levels. In response, trivago has significantly reduced its marketing spend and taken additional actions to lower operating expenses. We expect trivago to continue to experience significant pressure on revenue and profit until online travel agencies and other hotel suppliers begin to see consumer demand that warrants an increase in marketing spend. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel services, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized as the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks for our hotel business and can be several months or more for our alternative accommodations business. Historically, Vrbo has seen seasonally stronger bookings in the first quarter of the year, with the relevant stays occurring during the peak summer travel months. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, have typically been experienced in the second half of the year, particularly the fourth quarter, as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we typically increase marketing during the busy booking period for spring, summer and winter holiday travel. As a result on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The growth of our international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, including the growth of Vrbo, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Due to COVID-19, which led to significant cancellations for future travel during the first half of 2020, and has impacted new travel bookings for the majority of 2020, we have not experienced our typical seasonal pattern for bookings, revenue and profit during the past year. In addition, with the lower new bookings and elevated cancellations in the merchant business model, our typical, seasonal working capital source of cash has been significantly disrupted resulting in the Company experiencing unfavorable working capital trends and material negative cash flow during the first half of 2020 when we typically generate significant positive cash flow. Seasonal trends were more normalized during the second half of the year, but it is difficult to forecast the seasonality for the upcoming quarters, given the uncertainty related to the duration of the impact from COVID-19 and the shape and timing of any sustained recovery. In addition, we continue to experience shorter booking windows in our lodging businesses, which could also impact the seasonality of our working capital and cash flow. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. 34 Table of Contents Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally reduce our merchant accounts payable and the supplier costs within net revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Deferred Loyalty Rewards We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our Hotels.com Rewards program, our Expedia Rewards program and our Orbitz Rewards program. Hotels.com Rewards offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. Expedia Rewards enables participating travelers to earn points on all hotel, flight, package and activities made on over 40 Brand Expedia websites. Orbitz Rewards allows travelers to earn Orbucks, the currency of Orbitz Rewards, on flights, hotels and vacation packages and instantly redeem those Orbucks on future bookings at various hotels worldwide. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we defer the relative standalone selling price of earned points, net of expected breakage, as deferred loyalty rewards within deferred merchant bookings on the consolidated balance sheet. In order to estimate the standalone selling price of the underlying services on which points can be redeemed for all loyalty programs, we use an adjusted market assessment approach and consider the redemption values expected from the traveler. We then estimate the number of rewards that will not be redeemed based on historical activity in our members' accounts as well as statistical modeling techniques. Revenue is recognized when we have satisfied our performance obligation relating to the points, that is when the travel service purchased with the loyalty award is satisfied. Both the actual standalone selling price of the underlying services and ultimate redemption rates could differ materially from our estimates due to a number of factors, including fluctuations in reward value, product utilization and divergence from historical member behavior. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill . We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. During 2020, as a result of the significant turmoil related to COVID-19, we concluded that sufficient indicators existed to require us to perform multiple interim impairment assessments. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we typically perform a quantitative assessment and compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value and, if applicable, record an impairment charge based on the excess of the reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. Periodically, we may choose to perform a qualitative assessment, prior to performing the quantitative analysis, to determine whether the fair value of the goodwill is more likely than not impaired. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units, except for trivago, which is a separately listed company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach with the exception of our standalone publicly traded subsidiary, which is based on market valuation. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. The fair value estimate for the trivago reporting unit was based on trivago's stock price, a Level 1 input, adjusted for an estimated control premium. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. 35 Table of Contents Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets . We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in the period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. For additional information on our goodwill and intangible asset impairments recorded in 2020, see NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates.All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheets. We account for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process of evaluating recognition and measurement criteria. The first step assesses whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the tax authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more likely than not criteria, the portion of the tax benefit greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with the tax authority is recognized in the financial statements. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies . We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy and Other Taxes . Some states and localities impose taxes (e.g. transient occupancy, accommodation tax, sales tax and/or business privilege tax) on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations or other traveler services. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We 36 Table of Contents calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the applicable tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In most jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit taxes, nor do we pay taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such taxes. A limited number of taxing jurisdictions have made similar claims against Vrbo for tax amounts due on the rental amounts charged by owners of alternative accommodations properties or for taxes on Vrbos services. Vrbo is an intermediary between a traveler and a party renting an alternative accommodations property and we believe is similarly not liable for such taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve these issues. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy and other transactional tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 10,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and ecommerce. Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of taxes on businesses that facilitate the booking of hotel or alternative accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in tax related litigation, which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in nine lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and/or ordinances at issue do not apply to us or the services we provide, namely the facilitation of travel planning and reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. For additional information and other recent developments on these and other legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $58 million as of December 31, 2020 and $48 million as of December 31, 2019. Certain jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Maine, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales or other taxes for hotel and/or other accommodations and/or car rental. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, we have entered into voluntary collection agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to voluntarily collect and remit taxes to state and/or local taxing jurisdictions. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, West Virginia, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, Maryland, Kentucky, Maine, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York and the District of Columbia, as well as certain other jurisdictions. 37 Table of Contents Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. For additional information, see NOTE 15 Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings - Pay-to-Play in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with various tax authorities, some of which, including the City of Los Angeles regarding hotel occupancy taxes, may impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. Segments Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, we have the following reportable segments: Retail, B2B, and trivago. Our Retail segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of consumer brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Vrbo, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, ebookers, CheapTickets, Hotwire.com, CarRentals.com, CruiseShipCenter and Classic Vacations. Our B2B segment is comprised of our Expedia Business Services organization including Expedia Partner Solutions, which offers private label and co-branded products to make travel services available to travelers through third-party company branded websites, and Egencia, a full-service travel management company that provides travel services to businesses and their corporate customers. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked for agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are reduced for cancellations and refunds. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Gross bookings $ 36,796 $ 107,873 $ 99,727 (66) % 8 % Revenue margin (1) 14.1 % 11.2 % 11.3 % ___________________________________ (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The decrease in worldwide gross bookings in 2020 compared to 2019 was driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated reduction in travel demand with declines across lodging, air and other travel products in the current year. Revenue margin in 2020 was higher than 2019 due in part to the significant lodging cancellations, which reduced gross bookings, creating an unusual mix of bookings and revenue in the year. Current period revenue margins are not indicative of our future expectations. 38 Table of Contents Results of Operations Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Retail $ 3,993 $ 8,808 $ 8,389 (55) % 5 % B2B 942 2,579 2,143 (64) % 20 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 205 622 691 (67) % (10) % Corporate (Bodybuilding.com) 59 58 4 % N/A Total revenue $ 5,199 $ 12,067 $ 11,223 (57) % 8 % Similar to the gross bookings decline, revenue decreased 57% in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by the COVID-19 pandemic across all segments and lodging, air and other travel products. Year Ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Revenue by Service Type Lodging $ 4,051 $ 8,362 $ 7,597 (52) % 10 % Air 105 869 881 (88) % (1) % Advertising and media (1) 405 1,104 1,103 (63) % % Other 638 1,732 1,642 (63) % 5 % Total revenue $ 5,199 $ 12,067 $ 11,223 (57) % 8 % ___________________________________ (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Lodging revenue decreased 52% in 2020 on a 55% decrease in room nights stayed, partially offset by a 9% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night in 2020 benefited from an increase in the percentage of room nights contributed by Vrbo, which has a higher revenue per room night than the rest of our lodging business, and transaction revenue related to Vrbo's transition to merchant of record. Air revenue decreased 88% in 2020 reflecting a 63% decline in tickets sold and a 67% decrease in revenue per ticket. The decline in revenue per ticket was primarily related to a shift in product mix. Advertising and media revenue decreased 63% in 2020 due to declines at trivago and Expedia Group Media Solutions. All other revenue, which includes car rental, insurance, destination services, fees related to our corporate travel business and revenue related to Bodybuilding.com (during the period of our ownership of July 2019 to May 2020), decreased by 63% in 2020 resulting from declines in insurance, driven by the adverse impact of contra-revenue related to customer claims created during COVID-19 with third-party insurance, as well as declines in car and corporate travel business revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 3,261 $ 6,763 $ 6,125 (52) % 10 % Agency 1,267 3,882 3,701 (67) % 5 % Advertising, media and other 671 1,422 1,397 (53) % 2 % Total revenue $ 5,199 $ 12,067 $ 11,223 (57) % 8 % 39 Table of Contents The decrease in merchant revenue in 2020 was primarily due to the decrease in merchant hotel revenue driven by a decrease in room nights stayed and lower insurance revenue, partially offset by an increase in Vrbo merchant alternative accommodations revenue driven by Vrbo's transition to merchant of record. The decrease in agency revenue in 2020 was primarily due to the decline in agency hotel and air as well as Vrbo agency alternative accommodations revenue. Advertising, media and other decreased 53% in 2020 compared to 2019 due to declines in advertising revenue. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 1,155 $ 1,452 $ 1,270 (20) % 14 % Personnel and overhead 525 625 594 (16) % 5 % Total cost of revenue $ 1,680 $ 2,077 $ 1,864 (19) % 11 % % of revenue 32.3 % 17.2 % 16.6 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of direct costs to support our customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors; credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks; and other costs, primarily including data center and cloud costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain transactional level taxes, costs related to Bodybuilding.com during our period of ownership as well as related personnel and overhead costs, including stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue decreased $397 million during 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to a decline in merchant fees resulting from lower transaction volumes, a decline in customer service and personnel costs, and lower cloud expenses, partially offset by higher payment processing costs related to Vrbos transition to merchant of record and higher bad debt reserves related to future collection risk from the impact of COVID-19. Selling and Marketing Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 1,747 $ 5,043 $ 4,670 (65) % 8 % Indirect costs 799 1,035 1,051 (23) % (2) % Total selling and marketing $ 2,546 $ 6,078 $ 5,721 (58) % 6 % % of revenue 49.0 % 50.4 % 51.0 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $3.5 billion during 2020 compared to 2019 driven by a decrease in direct costs driven by a significant reduction in marketing spend starting in March 2020 and continuing throughout 2020 related to the impact on travel demand from COVID-19. The decrease in indirect costs was due to lower personnel and related costs, including lower incentive compensation costs resulting from the shift away from cash bonuses in 2020 to equity that will vest in 2021. 40 Table of Contents Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 726 $ 927 $ 869 (22) % 7 % Other 284 299 253 (5) % 18 % Total technology and content $ 1,010 $ 1,226 $ 1,122 (18) % 9 % % of revenue 19.4 % 10.2 % 10.0 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, including stock-based compensation, as well as other costs including cloud expense and licensing and maintenance expense. Technology and content expense decreased $216 million for 2020 compared to 2019 primarily reflecting lower personnel and related costs, including lower incentive compensation costs. General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 434 $ 601 $ 573 (28) % 5 % Professional fees and other 163 214 201 (24) % 7 % Total general and administrative $ 597 $ 815 $ 774 (27) % 5 % % of revenue 11.5 % 6.8 % 6.9 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions and related stock-based compensation, as well as fees for external professional services. General and administrative expense decreased $218 million in 2020 compared to 2019 mainly driven by lower personnel costs, including lower incentive compensation costs, lower professional fees and lower stock-based compensation of $34 million in part due to the fourth quarter of 2019 acceleration of expense related to the departure of our former CEO. Depreciation and Amortization Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Depreciation $ 739 $ 712 $ 676 4 % 5 % Amortization of intangible assets 154 198 283 (22) % (30) % Total depreciation and amortization $ 893 $ 910 $ 959 (2) % (5) % Depreciation increased $27 million in 2020 compared to 2019 due to depreciation related to our new headquarters and higher internal-use software and website development depreciation, partially offset by lower data center depreciation. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $44 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets as well as the impact of definite-lived intangible impairments in the current year. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During 2020, as a result of the significant negative impact related to the COVID-19, which has had a severe effect on the entire global travel industry, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $799 million as well as intangible asset impairment charges of $175 million. See NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 41 Table of Contents Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ (13) $ 34 $ (59) (138) % N/A Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other primarily consists of increases in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. During 2020, we recorded a $25 million gain in relation to a legal settlement, which was partially offset by changes in our reserves related to occupancy and other matters. During 2019, we received a $10 million refund of prepaid pay-to-play amounts from the State of Hawaii in connection with the general excise tax litigation resulting in a corresponding benefit during the period, which nets down increases in reserves for occupancy tax and other matters. For additional information, see NOTE 15 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In late February 2020, we committed to restructuring actions intended to simplify our businesses and improve operational efficiencies, which have resulted in headcount reductions, and, subsequently in 2020, the Company accelerated further actions to adapt our business to the current environment. As a result, we recognized $231 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2020. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect total reorganization charges in 2021 of approximately $60 million. However, we continue to actively evaluate additional cost reduction efforts and should we make decisions in future periods to take further actions we will incur additional reorganization charges. We also engaged in certain smaller scale restructure actions in 2019 to centralize and migrate certain operational functions and systems, for which we recognized $24 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2019, which were primarily related to severance, benefits and professional fees. Operating Income (Loss) Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Operating income (loss) $ (2,719) $ 903 $ 714 N/A 26 % % of revenue (52.3) % 7.5 % 6.4 % In 2020, we had operating loss of $2.7 billion compared to operating income of $903 million in 2019 primarily due to significant declining revenue in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the goodwill and intangible impairments and restructure charges mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA by Segment Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Retail $ 254 $ 2,121 $ 2,088 (88) % 2 % B2B (208) 447 341 N/A 31 % trivago (14) 85 16 N/A 447 % Unallocated overhead costs (Corporate) (1) (400) (519) (475) (23) % 9 % Total Adjusted EBITDA (2) $ (368) $ 2,134 $ 1,970 N/A 8 % ______________________________________ (1) Includes immaterial operating results of Bodybuilding.com subsequent to our acquisition in July 2019 through its sale in May 2020. 42 Table of Contents (2) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See "Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA" below for more information. Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment operating metric. See NOTE 19 Segment Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on intersegment transactions, unallocated overhead costs and for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by segment to net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. for the periods presented above. Our Retail, B2B and trivago segment Adjusted EBITDA significantly declined during 2020, compared to 2019, resulting from impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which drove meaningful revenue declines, partially offset by a decline in direct sales and marketing expense as a percent of revenue. Unallocated overhead costs decreased $119 million during 2020 primarily due to lower general and administrative expenses. Retail Adjusted EBITDA increased $33 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses, including an increase in direct sales and marketing expense. B2B Adjusted EBITDA increased $106 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue as well as leverage on operating expenses. trivago Adjusted EBITDA increased $69 million during 2019, compared to 2018. Beginning late in the second quarter of 2018, trivago started focusing on improved profitability and made significant reductions in its advertising spend as a result of this increased focus on reducing operating expenditures. The negative marketing spend adversely impacted revenue growth, while benefiting profitability. This trend continued in 2019. Unallocated overhead costs increased $44 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to higher general and administrative expenses as well as technology expenses. Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 18 $ 59 $ 71 (69) % (17) % Interest expense (360) (173) (190) 108 % (9) % Interest income decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of lower rates of return. Interest expense increased in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of additional interest on the $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes issued in September 2019, the $2.75 billion senior unsecured notes issued in May 2020, the $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes issued in July 2020 as well as interest expense on our outstanding revolving credit facility amounts during 2020. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (In millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ 71 $ (34) $ 3 Gains (losses) on minority equity investments, net (142) 8 (111) Loss on sale of businesses, net (13) Other (6) 12 (2) Total other, net $ (90) $ (14) $ (110) During 2020, losses on minority equity investments, net included $134 million of impairment losses related to a minority investment as well as $6 million of mark-to-market losses related to our publicly traded marketable equity investment, Despegar. See NOTE 3 Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 43 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (423) $ 203 $ 87 N/A 131 % Effective tax rate 13.4 % 26.2 % 18.1 % Our effective tax rate for 2020 was lower than the 21% federal statutory income tax rate due to valuation allowances and nondeductible impairments measured against a pre-tax loss. Our effective tax rate for 2019 was higher than the 21% federal statutory income tax rate due to state income taxes, foreign income taxed at higher than the federal statutory tax rate, as well as losses in foreign jurisdictions for which we do not record a tax benefit. We are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax filings are regularly examined by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. During the fourth quarter of 2019, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued final adjustments related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for our 2011 to 2013 tax years. The proposed adjustments would increase our U.S. taxable income by $696 million, which would result in federal tax of approximately $244 million, subject to interest. We do not agree with the position of the IRS. We filed a protest with the IRS for our 2011 to 2013 tax years and Appeals returned our case to Exam for further review. We are also under examination by the IRS for our 2014 to 2016 tax years. Subsequent years remain open to examination by the IRS. We do not anticipate a significant impact to our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months related to these years. For additional information, see NOTE 10 Income Taxes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Adjusted EBITDA is among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a description of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included above, in the Legal Proceedings section, as well as the notes to the financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measure used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. adjusted for (1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests; (2) provision for income taxes; (3) total other expenses, net; (4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (5) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, if any, and (iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, if any; (6) certain other items, including restructuring; (7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other; (8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and (9) depreciation. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. 44 Table of Contents The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 (In millions) Net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. $ (2,612) $ 565 $ 406 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (116) 7 (8) Provision for income taxes (423) 203 87 Total other expense, net 432 128 229 Operating income (loss) (2,719) 903 714 Gain (loss) on revenue hedges related to revenue recognized 61 22 25 Restructuring and related reorganization charges 231 24 Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other (13) 34 (59) Stock-based compensation 205 241 203 Depreciation and amortization 893 910 959 Impairment of goodwill 799 86 Impairment of intangible assets 175 42 Adjusted EBITDA $ (368) $ 2,134 $ 1,970 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are typically cash flows generated from operations, cash available under our revolving credit facilities as well as our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. As of December 31, 2020, the total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $958 million ($677 million in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and $281 million in majority-owned subsidiaries). The amount of undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries where the foreign subsidiary has or will invest undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the Unites States, and for which future distributions could be taxable, was $85 million as of December 31, 2020. The unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of these earnings was $22 million as of December 31, 2020. Managing our balance sheet prudently and maintaining appropriate liquidity are high priorities during the current COVID-19 pandemic. In order to best position the Company to navigate our current working capital challenges and depressed revenue throughout 2020, we have taken a number of actions to bolster our liquidity and preserve financial flexibility, including: Suspension of Share Repurchases. We have not repurchased any shares since our earnings call on February 13, 2020, and have suspended future share repurchases. Suspension of Quarterly Dividends. We do not expect to declare quarterly dividends on our common stock, at least until the current economic and operating environment improves. Private Equity Investment. On April 23, 2020, we entered into an investment agreement with AP Fort Holdings, L.P., an affiliate of Apollo Global Management, Inc., and an investment agreement with SLP Fort Aggregator II, L.P. and SLP V Fort Holdings II, L.P., affiliates of Silver Lake Group, L.L.C., to raise approximately $1.2 billion in gross proceeds in a private placement of shares of a newly created series of preferred stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. The transaction was completed on May 5, 2020. Senior Notes Issuances. On May 5, 2020, we privately placed $2 billion of unsecured 6.250% senior notes that are due in May 2025 (the 6.25% Notes) and $750 million of unsecured 7.000% senior notes due May 2025 (the 7.0% Notes, and, together with the 6.25% Notes, the 6.25% and 7.0% Notes). The 7.0% notes have certain redemption provisions starting with the second anniversary of the issuance. The 6.25% and 7.0 % Notes were issued at a price of 100% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November of each year, beginning November 1, 2020. We have used and will continue to use the net proceeds of this offering for general corporate purposes, which included, but was not limited to, the repayment or redemption of our 5.95% senior notes in August 2020. 45 Table of Contents On July 14, 2020, we privately placed $500 million of unsecured 3.600% senior notes due December 2023 (the 3.6% Notes) and $750 million of unsecured 4.625% senior notes due August 2027 (the 4.625% Notes and, together with the 3.6% Notes, the 3.6% and 4.625% Notes). The 3.6% Notes were issued at a price of 99.922% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable on the 3.6% Notes semi-annually in arrears in June and December of each year, beginning December 15, 2020. The 4.625% Notes were issued at a price of 99.997% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable on the 4.625% Notes semi-annually in arrears in February and August of each year, beginning February 1, 2021. We expect to use the net proceeds to redeem outstanding shares of our 9.5% Series A Preferred Stock after May 5, 2021, when the redemption premium is scheduled to decrease. Depending on business, liquidity and other trends or conditions, however, we may elect to use all or part of the proceeds for other general corporate purposes, which may include repaying, prepaying, redeeming or repurchasing other indebtedness in lieu of or pending such redemption. Revolving Credit Facility Updates. During March 2020, we increased our cash on hand by borrowing $1.9 billion under our then existing $2 billion revolving credit facility. This existing revolving credit facility was subsequently amended in May 2020 in connection with the issuance of the 6.25% and 7.0% Notes and private placement transaction, to, among other things, provide additional flexibility under pliable covenant provisions with the amended facility initially totaling $2 billion and mature on May 31, 2023 (Amended Credit Facility). Pursuant to the terms of Amended Credit Facility, in early August 2020, we entered into a foreign credit facility with a group of lenders (Foreign Credit Facility) with aggregate commitments which total $855 million, and maturing on May 31, 2023. Substantially concurrently with the establishment of the Foreign Credit Facility, the Company reduced commitments under the Amended Credit Facility in an amount equal to $855 million and prepaid indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility in an amount equal to $772 million, which was then outstanding under the Foreign Credit Facility. In August 2020, we repaid the outstanding amount of $772 million on the Foreign Credit Facility as well as $478 million under the Amended Credit Facility. In December 2020, we repaid the remaining amount outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding under either facility. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of December 31, 2020, Moodys rating was Baa3 with an outlook of negative, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of negative and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of negative. April 2020 rating agency downgrades were in connection with the severe disruption to global travel caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets and interest rates on the 6.25% and 7.0% Notes issued in May 2020 as well as on the 3.6% and 4.625% issued in July 2020 will increase, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facilities and outstanding debt as detailed in NOTE 7 Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant lodging business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. Typically, the seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings have affected the timing of our annual cash flows. Generally, during the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern typically reverses and cash flows are typically negative. With the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the high degree of cancellations and customer refunds, particularly during the first half of the year, and the lower new bookings in the merchant business model, these seasonal influences and the working capital source of cash to us has been significantly disrupted resulting in the Company experiencing unfavorable working capital trends and material negative cash flow in the first half of 2020 with the negative cash flow moderating as booking trends improved and cancellations stabilized during the second half of 2020. The full duration and total impact of COVID-19, and how the recovery will unfold, remains difficult to predict. We expect cash flow to remain negative until the decline in new merchant bookings improves further with cancellations either remaining stable or moderating further. In addition, we are experiencing much shorter booking windows in our lodging businesses, which could also impact the seasonality of our working capital and cash flow. Prior to COVID-19, we embarked on an ambitious cost reduction initiative to simplify the organization and increase efficiency. In response to COVID-19, Expedia Group has taken several additional actions to further reduce costs to help mitigate the financial impact from COVID-19 and continue to improve our long-term cost structure. In addition, certain capital expenditures were deferred, including temporarily halting construction on several real estate projects. After temporarily halting 46 Table of Contents construction on our new headquarters during the initial quarantine order, we restarted construction. We expect to spend approximately $900 million in total for the project. Of the total, approximately $850 million was spent between 2016 and 2020. Due to the delays related to COVID-19, we now expect the project to be complete in the first half of 2021. Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs 2019 2019 vs 2018 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in) operations: Operating activities $ (3,834) $ 2,767 $ 1,975 $ (6,601) $ 792 Investing activities (263) (1,553) (559) 1,290 (994) Financing activities 4,077 175 (1,489) 3,902 1,664 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 61 3 (139) 58 142 In 2020, net cash used in operating activities was $3.8 billion compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.8 billion for 2019. Impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a significant use of cash to fund working capital changes and operating losses in 2020 compared to a 2019 cash benefit from working capital. The largest driver of the swing in working capital relates to a significant use of cash for deferred merchant bookings as refunds for cancelled bookings exceeded new bookings compared to an increase from deferred merchant bookings in the prior year period. In 2020, $1.3 billion less cash was used in investing activities primarily due to net sales of investments of $476 million in 2020 compared to net purchases of investments of $494 million in 2019 as well as lower current year capital expenditures, including lower spend on our corporate headquarters. Cash provided by financing activities in 2020 primarily included $3.9 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of senior notes issued in May and July 2020, $1.1 billion of net proceeds from our private equity issuance, as well as $319 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. These sources of cash were partially offset by the August 2020 repayment of $750 million of 5.95% Notes, cash paid to acquire shares of $425 million, including the repurchased shares in the first quarter of 2020 and treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments, and cash dividend payments of $123 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2019 primarily included $1.2 billion of net proceeds for the issuance of the 3.25% Notes in September 2019 as well as $301 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans, partially offset by $400 million payment of debt assumed in the Liberty Expedia transaction, cash dividend payments of $195 million and cash paid to acquire shares of $743 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorization discussed below as well as $24 million for repurchases with respect to the Liberty Expedia Holdings transaction. During 2019, 2012, 2010, and 2006, our Board of Directors, or the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock in each of the respective years, during 2018 authorized a repurchase of up to 15 million shares of our common stock and during 2015 authorized a repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock for a total of 105 million shares. Shares repurchased under the authorized programs were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 Number of shares repurchased 3.4 million 5.6 million 7.7 million Average price per share $ 109.88 $ 122.72 $ 117.02 Total cost of repurchases (in millions) (1) $ 370 $ 683 $ 903 ______________________________________ (1) Amount excludes transaction costs. As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 23.3 million shares remaining under the 2018 and 2019 repurchase authorizations. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Our common stock dividend was $0.34 per share for the first quarter of 2020, $1.32 per share for 2019 and $1.24 per share for 2018. See NOTE 11 Capital Stock in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a detail of the quarterly dividend payments by year. In addition, during 2020, we paid $75 million (or $62.47 per share of Series A Preferred Stock) of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. The Company does not expect to make future quarterly dividend payments on our common stock, at least until the current economic and operating environment improves. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. 47 Table of Contents Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in increases of our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2020 of $61 million reflecting a net appreciation in foreign currencies related to the U.S. dollar during the year. Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in an immaterial increase of our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2019 of $3 million. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost of availability of future borrowings, including refinancing, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Summarized Financial Information for Guarantors and the Issuer of Guaranteed Securities Summarized financial information of Expedia Group, Inc. (the Parent) and our subsidiaries that are guarantors of our debt facility and instruments (the Guarantor Subsidiaries) is shown below on a combined basis as the Obligor Group. The debt facility and instruments are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees are full, unconditional, joint and several with the exception of certain customary automatic subsidiary release provisions. In this summarized financial information of the Obligor Group, all intercompany balances and transactions between the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated and all information excludes subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors of our debt facility and instruments, including earnings from and investments in these entities. December 31, 2020 (In millions) Combined Balance Sheets Information: Current Assets (1) $ 5,076 Non-Current Assets 10,245 Current Liabilities 4,595 Non-Current Liabilities 8,804 Series A Preferred Stock 1,022 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Combined Statements of Operations Information: Revenue $ 4,229 Operating income (loss) (2) (1,884) Net income (loss) (1,890) Net income (loss) attributable to Obligors (1,965) (1) Current assets include intercompany receivables with non-guarantors of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. (2) Operating income (loss) includes intercompany expenses with non-guarantors of $600 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2020: By Period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Senior notes debt (1) $ 10,550 $ 378 $ 2,036 $ 3,909 $ 4,227 Operating leases, including imputed interest (2) 750 147 191 123 289 Purchase obligations (3) 1,042 551 452 39 Guarantees (4) 59 59 Letters of credit (4) 32 24 5 3 Total (5) $ 12,433 $ 1,159 $ 2,684 $ 4,071 $ 4,519 ____________________ (1) Our 2.5% Notes, 3.6% Notes, 4.5% Notes, 6.25% Notes, 7.0% Notes, 5.0% Notes, 4.625% Notes, 3.8% and 3.25% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028 and 2030 48 Table of Contents respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. For the 2.5% Notes, the December 31, 2020 Euro exchange rate was used to convert the Euro 650 million to U.S. Dollars and calculate the related U.S. Dollar interest payments. (2) Operating lease obligations include leases for office space and data centers. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2038. (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily for certain regulatory purposes as well as to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. Of the outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs, $13 million directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facilities. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authorities of certain foreign countries to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within those countries. These countries hold all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. Our guarantees also include bonds relating to tax assessments that we are contesting and certain surety bonds related to various company performance obligations. (5) Excludes $282 million of net unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see NOTE 17 Liberty Expedia Holdings Transaction and NOTE 18 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Part II.