Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 (1) 2011 (1) (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 6,672,317 $ 5,763,485 $ 4,771,259 $ 4,030,347 $ 3,449,009 Operating income 413,566 517,764 366,060 431,724 479,609 Net income from continuing operations (2) 722,748 372,950 216,358 302,979 326,341 Discontinued operations, net of taxes (22,539 ) 148,262 Net income attributable to Expedia, Inc. (2) 764,465 398,097 232,850 280,171 472,294 Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 5.87 $ 3.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.26 $ 2.39 Diluted 5.70 2.99 1.67 2.16 2.34 Earnings per share attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 5.87 $ 3.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.09 $ 3.48 Diluted 5.70 2.99 1.67 2.00 3.41 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 130,159 128,912 134,912 134,203 135,888 Diluted 134,018 133,168 139,593 139,929 138,702 Dividends declared per common share $ 0.84 $ 0.66 $ 0.56 $ 0.96 $ 0.56 December 31, 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working deficit $ (2,947,256 ) $ (1,262,126 ) $ (1,075,094 ) $ (367,809 ) $ (278,928 ) Total assets 15,503,812 9,020,538 7,739,481 7,132,746 6,505,258 Long-term debt 3,201,277 1,746,787 1,249,412 1,249,345 1,249,281 Non-redeemable noncontrolling interest 65,373 109,462 113,521 109,129 105,303 Total stockholders equity 4,929,767 1,893,729 2,258,985 2,389,388 2,305,167 (1) On December 20, 2011, we completed the spin-off of TripAdvisor. Immediately prior to the spin-off, we effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In order to complete the spin-off, we were required to redeem the $400 million principal of our 8.5% senior notes due 2016 (8.5% Notes), which were legally extinguished in the first quarter of 2012. Accordingly, the results of operations and financial condition of TripAdvisor, and related debt extinguishment losses have been presented in discontinued operations for all periods presented. Further, all Expedia common stock information and related per share prices have been adjusted to reflect the reverse stock split. (2) On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong, Inc. We recognized an after tax gain of $395 million (or $509 million pre-tax gain) during 2015. 44 Table of Contents Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines, vacation rental property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our transaction-based websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2014 and 2015 represented years of continuing improvement for the travel industry. However, geopolitical conflicts, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues and macroeconomic concerns are examples of events that contribute to a somewhat uncertain environment, which could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2015, over 50% of U.S. and European leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occur online. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe, and are estimated to be in the range of 20% to 30%. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (which The Priceline Group acquired in May 2013), trivago (in which Expedia acquired a majority ownership interest in March 2013) as well as TripAdvisor (which completed its conversion to a metasearch site in June 2013), introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies. In addition, certain metasearch companies adopted or intend to adopt various forms of direct or assisted-booking tools, the impact of which is currently uncertain. Furthermore, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations including direct booking functionality, as well as licensing deals and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google. Finally, traditional consumer eCommerce and group buying websites have been expanding their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their sites. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve, including through the continued expansion of our ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. 45 Table of Contents Intense competition also historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is less favorable than that for our consolidated business, but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. The crowded online travel environment is now driving certain secondary and tertiary online travel companies to establish marketing agreements with global players in order to leverage distribution and technology capabilities while focusing resources on capturing consumer mind share. In May 2015, Expedia sold its 62.4% equity stake in eLong for approximately $671 million to several purchasers including Ctrip.com International, Ltd (Ctrip). Expedia and Ctrip also reached agreement on cooperation for certain travel products in specified geographic markets. The transaction closed on May 22, 2015. Unless otherwise noted, all discussion in the Trends and Growth Strategy sections refers to results for Expedia, Inc. excluding eLong. Lodging We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). Although our relationships with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years, as part of the global rollout of ETP, we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, which has negatively impacted the margin of revenue we earn per booking. In addition, as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced and expect to continue to reduce our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Lastly, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had a negative effect on unit economics due to unfavorable book-to-stay as well as translation impacts. Based on these dynamics, our average revenue per room night declined in each quarter of 2013, 2014 and 2015 and we expect it to remain under pressure in the future. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry have generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, U.S. dollar-denominated ADRs declined in 2015 due to the currency translation impact. Current occupancy rates are at record highs and there is very little new, net hotel supply being added in the U.S. lodging market with large chains focusing their development opportunities in international markets. This may help U.S. hoteliers with their objective of continuing to grow ADRs and tends to lead to pressure in our negotiations and terms with hoteliers. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a much faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. Many hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by offering incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. Companies like Airbnb have also added incremental global supply in the alternative accommodations space. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with approximately 269,000 properties and 1.2 million live vacation rental listings on our global websites as of December 31, 2015. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights excluding eLong growing 16% in 2013, 24% in 2014, and 36% in 2015. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites excluding eLong increased 4% in 2013, 3% in 2014, and declined 5% in 2015. Air The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil, including significant air carrier consolidation in the United States, which has generally resulted in lower overall capacity and higher fares. 46 Table of Contents As the demand for travel continued to increase in 2014 and 2015, air carriers kept capacity growth relatively low. The significant decline in fuel prices that started in the second half of 2014 did not immediately translate into reduced air fares, resulting in record levels of profitability for the U.S. air carriers, further strengthening their position. However, in 2015, there has been evidence of discounting by the U.S. carriers while currency headwinds and weaker macroeconomic trends put pressure on international results. Ticket prices on Expedia sites excluding eLong increased 2% in 2013, declined 1% in 2014 and declined 11% in 2015 as short-haul traffic and low cost carriers grew alongside increasingly competitive airline pricing. We continue to encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine and as certain supply agreements renew. Air ticket volumes excluding eLong increased 35% in 2015 primarily due to strong growth on Brand Expedia sites and the acquisition of Orbitz. Air volumes improved 30% in 2014 primarily due to volume driven by Brand Expedias marketing agreement with Travelocity along with ongoing improvements for the Brand Expedia sites themselves. From a product perspective in 2015, 69% of our revenue came from the booking of hotel reservations, with 8% of our revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We believe that the hotel product is the most profitable of the travel products we distribute and represents our best overall growth opportunity. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch site, in addition to Expedia Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In 2015, we generated a total of $564 million of advertising and media revenue (excluding eLong) representing 9% of total revenue in 2015, up from $469 million in 2014. Growth Strategy Product Innovation . Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. Each Expedia technology platform is operated by a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and help customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched new global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates for those brands. In 2013, Expedia signed an agreement to power the technology, supply and customer service platforms for Travelocity-branded sites in the United States and Canada, enabling Expedia to leverage its investments in each of these key areas. The shift of Travelocity-branded sites to the Expedia technology platform was successfully completed over the course of 2014. In November 2014, Expedia completed the acquisition of Wotif Group and subsequently converted the Wotif.com site to the Expedia platform. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. The strategic marketing and other related agreements previously entered into were terminated. In September 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, including all of its brands. In December 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of HomeAway, Inc., including all of its brands. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, EAN, and Hotwire brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. We own Venere, a European brand, which focuses on marketing hotel rooms in Southern Europe; Wotif Group, which has sites in Australia and New Zealand; and ebookers, which operates in a number of international countries. 47 Table of Contents Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in 65 countries around the world and continues to expand, including its 2012 acquisition of VIA Travel. The HomeAway portfolio has vacation rental sites all around the world. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading hotel metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe and North America. trivago continues to operate independently and rapidly grow revenue through global expansion, including aggressive expansion in new countries. In addition, we have commercial agreements in place with Ctrip and eLong in China, as well as Decolar.com, Inc. in Latin America. In 2015, approximately 37% of our worldwide gross bookings excluding eLong and 44% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 21% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating at least 65% of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States. In July 2014, we completed the acquisition of Auto Escape Group, one of Europes leading online car rental reservation companies. Auto Escape Group has joined with the CarRentals.com brand, allowing it to expand internationally to provide our customers more choices across the globe and help our supply partners expand their marketing reach. In November 2014, we completed the acquisition of Wotif Group, an Australian online travel company. Wotif Group adds to our collection of travels most trusted brands and enhances our supply in the Asia-Pacific region, while allowing Expedia to expose the Wotif Group to our world-class technology and its customers to our extensive global supply. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. As a result of the acquisition, the strategic marketing agreement previously entered into during 2013, which joined Travelocitys strong brand with our best-in-class booking platform, supply base and customer service, was terminated. Evolving this relationship strengthens Expedia, Inc.s ability to continue to innovate and deliver the best travel experiences to the widest set of travelers, all over the world. In March 2015, we completed the acquisition of an additional 25% equity interest of AAE Travel Pte. Ltd., the joint venture formed between Expedia and AirAsia Berhad in 2011. This investment increases our total ownership in the venture to 75% and we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. Following the close of the transaction in March 2015, the financial results of the AirAsia-Expedia venture are included in Expedias consolidated financial statements. In March 2015, Expedia and Decolar.com, Inc., the Latin American online travel company that operates the Decolar.com and Despegar.com branded websites, announced that the two companies have expanded their partnership to include deeper cooperation on hotel supply and a minority equity investment by Expedia. Building on the commercial relationship the two companies have had since 2002, the expanded agreement broadens Expedias powering of Decolars hotel supply and introduces the opportunity for Decolar to provide Expedia access to its hotel supply in Latin America. The customers of both companies will benefit from the broad, shared selection of hotels, and hotel partners will gain increased access to travelers in Latin America and around the world. In September 2015, we completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, a leading global portfolio of travel brands and business-to-business offerings. The addition of Orbitz Worldwide brings Expedia an attractive set of well-recognized brands built by a talented team that is passionate about travel. In December 2015, we completed the acquisition of HomeAway, which operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, with sites representing over one million paid listings of vacation rental homes in over 190 countries. With Expedias expertise in powering global transactional platforms and our industry-leading technology capabilities, we look forward to partnering with HomeAway to accelerate their shift from a classified marketplace to an online, transactional model to create even better experiences for HomeAways global traveler audience and the owners and managers of its properties around the world. 48 Table of Contents In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements in conversion. New Channel Penetration . Today, the majority of online travel bookings are generated through typical desktop and laptop computers. However, technological innovations and developments are creating new opportunities including travel bookings made through mobile devices. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile/tablet applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends. We believe mobile bookings via smartphones present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed within one or two days of the travel or stay, which is a much shorter booking window than we have historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. During the last few years, customers behaviors and preferences on tablet devices began to show differences from trends seen on smartphones. For example, the booking window on a smartphone typically is much shorter than the emerging trend on the tablet device and historical average on a desktop or laptop. In addition, we are seeing increasing cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe in the future mobile is likely to represent an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During the year ended December 31, 2015, one in four Expedia, Inc. transactions were booked globally on a mobile device. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel products, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, are experienced in the second half of the year as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we aggressively market during the busy booking period for summer travel. As a result, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix, including the assimilation, growth and shift to more of a transaction-based business model for the vacation rental listing business of HomeAway, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the 49 Table of Contents consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally recognize those amounts as revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience and contract terms. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Loyalty Program Accruals We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our Hotels.com Rewards program, our Brand Expedia Expedia+ rewards program and our Orbitz rewards program. Hotels.com Rewards offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. Expedia+ rewards enables participating travelers to earn points on all hotel, flight, package and activities made on over 20 Brand Expedia websites. Orbitz Rewards allows travelers to earn Orbucks SM , the currency of Orbitz Rewards, on flights, hotels and vacation packages and instantly redeem those Orbucks on future bookings at various hotels worldwide. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we record a liability for the estimated future cost of redemptions. We determine the future redemption obligation based on judgment factors including: (i) the estimated cost of travel products to be redeemed, and (ii) an estimated redemption rate based on the overall accumulation and usage of points towards free travel products, which is determined through current and historical trends as well as statistical modeling techniques. The actual future cost and rate of redemptions could differ materially from our estimates. Business Combinations We assign the value of the consideration transferred to acquire a business to the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer relationships and trade names, and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. 50 Table of Contents Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill . We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we typically first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. If so, we perform a quantitative assessment and compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. In step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. Periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and perform quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets . We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset 51 Table of Contents group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in the period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. We record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. The determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. For those positions for which we conclude it is more likely than not it will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. The difference between the amount recognized and the total tax position is recorded as a liability. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies . We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy Tax . Some states and localities impose a transient occupancy or accommodation tax on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the occupancy tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In all but a limited number of jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit occupancy taxes, nor do we pay occupancy taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the 52 Table of Contents customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such occupancy taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve this issue. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit occupancy tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy and other transactional tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 7,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose hotel occupancy taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and e-commerce. Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of occupancy taxes on businesses that arrange the booking of hotel accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in occupancy tax related litigation, which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Recent occupancy tax developments are also discussed below under the caption Occupancy and Other Taxes. Stock-Based Compensation Our primary form of employee stock-based compensation is stock option awards. We measure the value of stock option awards on the date of grant at fair value using the appropriate valuation techniques, including the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo option-pricing models. We amortize the fair value, net of estimated forfeitures, over the remaining term on a straight-line basis. The pricing models require various highly judgmental assumptions including volatility and expected option term. If any of the assumptions used in the models change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. We record stock-based compensation expense net of estimated forfeitures. In determining the estimated forfeiture rates for stock-based awards, we periodically conduct an assessment of the actual number of equity awards that have been forfeited to date as well as those expected to be forfeited in the future. We consider many factors when estimating expected forfeitures, including the type of award, the employee class and historical experience. The estimate of stock awards that will ultimately be forfeited requires significant judgment and to the extent that actual results or updated estimates differ from our current estimates, such amounts will be recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the period such estimates are revised. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. 53 Table of Contents Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in twenty-three lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: City of Chicago, Illinois Litigation. On November 25, 2015, Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire appealed from the judgment against them. City of San Antonio, Texas Litigation. On January 22, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part the cities motion regarding penalties. Leon County v. Expedia, Inc., Florida Department of Revenue Litigation, et al. Litigation. On December 3, 2015, the Florida Supreme Court issued an order declining to accept jurisdiction and denying Leon Countys petition for discretionary review, thereby ending the case. Village of Matteson, Illinois Litigation. On December 3, 2015, the Villages of Matteson, Bloomington and Oakbrook, Illinois filed a lawsuit in Illinois state court against a number of online travel companies, including certain Expedia companies alleging a variety of claims relating to local occupancy taxes. Broward County, Florida Litigation . On December 9, 2015, the Florida Supreme Court issued an order declining to accept jurisdiction and denying Broward Countys petition for discretionary review, thereby ending the case. City of Portland Litigation . The parties reached a settlement, and on February 4, 2016, the court entered an order dismissing all claims and counterclaims. Hawaii Tax Court Litigation (General Excise Tax). On December 23, 2015, the Department of Taxation issued final assessments totaling $12 million for general excise taxes, interest and penalties against the Expedia companies (including Orbitz) for hotel and car rental revenue for agency model transactions from 2000 to 2014 and for hotel and car rental revenue for merchant model transactions for 2014. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $43 million as of December 31, 2015 and $62 million as of December 31, 2014. Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, and Maryland, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including to the states of New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, and Maryland, the District of Columbia and the city of New York, as well as certain other county and local jurisdictions. Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. 54 Table of Contents Hawaii (General Excise Tax). On January 31, 2011, the online travel companies received final notices of assessment for general excise taxes for the tax years 2000 to 2011 on their services relating to non-commissioned hotel room reservations. The companies appealed these assessments to the Hawaii tax court. On January 11, 2013, the Hawaii tax court ruled that the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest on both the amount paid to the online travel companies for their services and the amount paid to the hotel for the room; thus subjecting the hotels charge for the room to double taxation because general excise taxes on the hotel room had already been paid for all of the years at issue. On March 15, 2013, the Hawaii tax court issued penalties against the online travel companies for their failure to file returns and pay general excise taxes. On August 12, 2013, the court further held that interest is due on such penalties. The case proceeded directly to the Hawaii Supreme Court for review and was not considered by the Hawaii Court of Appeals. On March 17, 2015, the Hawaii Supreme Court issued a decision on the pending appeal. The court affirmed in part and reversed in part the Hawaii tax courts decision. Specifically, the court ruled that while the online travel companies are obligated to remit past Hawaii general excise taxes with interest on the amount paid to them for their services, along with penalties, the online travel companies are not liable for general excise taxes, interest or penalties on the amount paid to the hotel for the room. The Department of Taxation dismissed without prejudice its common law claims for the recovery of general excise taxes. As a pre-condition to appealing the tax court rulings, the Expedia companies and Orbitz were required to pay-to-play. The total amount that the Expedia companies paid in 2013 to appeal the tax court ruling was $171 million, comprised of $78 million in taxes, $41 million in penalties and $52 million in interest. In light of the Hawaii Supreme Court decision, the State agreed to refund the Expedia companies $132 million, which was subsequently paid to Expedia in September 2015. As a result, we recognized a gain in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other during 2015 related to this matter. Also in September 2015, Orbitz received a similar refund of $22 million from the State of Hawaii. The amount paid, net of refunds, by the Expedia companies and Orbitz to the State of Hawaii in satisfaction of past general excise taxes on their services is $44 million. In addition, the Department of Taxation has issued final assessments for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies, including Orbitz, for (i) non-commissioned hotel reservations for the tax year 2012 totaling $26 million, which includes $6 million for Orbitz, (ii) non-commissioned travel agency services relating to rental cars for the tax years 2000 through 2012 totaling $39 million, which includes $10 million for Orbitz and a duplicative assessment for Expedia and Hotels.com totaling $9.3 million and thus are overstated, and (iii) non-commissioned travel agency services relating to hotel reservations and car rental for the tax year 2013 totaling $34 million, which includes $5 million for Orbitz. Similar assessments also have been issued against other online travel companies. These assessments are currently under review in tax court. The Department of Taxation has issued final assessments for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies, including Orbitz, dated December 23, 2015 for the time period 2000 to 2014 for hotel and car rental revenue for agency model transactions, and hotel and car rental revenue for merchant model transactions for 2014. These assessments total $12 million, including tax, interest and penalties. San Francisco. During 2009, we were required to pay-to-play and paid $48 million in advance of litigation relating to occupancy tax proceedings with the city of San Francisco. The city of San Francisco subsequently issued additional assessments of tax, penalties and interest for the time period from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2011 against the online travel companies, including against certain Expedia companies. The additional assessments, including the prepayment of such assessments, were contested by the Expedia companies on the basis that the court has already ruled that taxes are not due from the online travel companies and that binding precedent by the California Court of Appeals precludes the citys claim for taxes. On May 14, 2014, the court heard oral argument on the Expedia companies contest of the prepayment requirement for the additional assessments and held that the Expedia companies were required to prepay in order to litigate the legality of the assessments. On May 26, 2014, the Expedia companies paid $25.5 million under protest in order to contest the additional assessments. The additional assessments were expensed during the second quarter of 2014. In addition, Orbitz in total has paid $4.6 million to the city of San Francisco in prepayment of taxes to 55 Table of Contents contest these assessments issued against it by the city. On August 6, 2014, the California Court of Appeals stayed this case pending review and decision by the California Supreme Court of the City of San Diego, California Litigation. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with domestic and foreign tax authorities, some of which, including in the United Kingdom regarding the application of value added tax (VAT) to our European Union related transactions, impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. Segments Beginning in the first quarter of 2015, we had four reportable segments: Core OTA, trivago, Egencia and eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. The change from two reportable segments, Leisure and Egencia, resulted in our previously disclosed Leisure reportable segment being disaggregated into three segments as a result of the Companys focus on providing additional information to reflect the unique market opportunities and competitive dynamics inherent in our eLong and trivago businesses. The acquisition of HomeAway on December 15, 2015 resulted in the creation of an additional segment. Our Core OTA segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Orbitz.com, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Travelocity, Venere, Wotif Group, CarRentals.com, and Classic Vacations. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Our Egencia segment, which also includes Orbitz for Business, provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide. Our HomeAway segment operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. 56 Table of Contents Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Core OTA $ 54,252 $ 42,869 $ 32,971 27 % 30 % trivago (1) N/A N/A Egencia 5,427 5,149 4,533 5 % 14 % HomeAway (1) N/A N/A eLong (2) 1,151 2,429 1,939 N/A 25 % Total gross bookings $ 60,830 $ 50,447 $ 39,443 21 % 28 % Revenue Margin Core OTA 10.8 % 11.4 % 12.3 % trivago (1) N/A N/A N/A Egencia 7.4 % 7.8 % 8.1 % HomeAway (1) N/A N/A N/A eLong (2) 3.6 % 7.3 % 8.5 % Total revenue margin 11.0 % 11.4 % 12.1 % (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. In addition, gross bookings from HomeAway, our newly acquired online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, are also excluded from the above total gross bookings. However, third-party revenue from trivago and HomeAway is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. (2) Includes results for eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2015 as compared to 2014 was primarily driven by growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com. Acquisitions added approximately 10% of inorganic gross bookings growth for 2015. Impacts from acquisitions exclude Travelocity due to the previously implemented commercial agreement. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2014 as compared to 2013 was primarily driven by 26% growth in hotel room nights and 28% increase in air tickets. Revenue margin decreased in 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to lower revenue per room night. These impacts were partially offset by a favorable impact of lower air ticket prices and a mix shift to higher margin products, including advertising and media revenue. Revenue margin decreased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to lower revenue per room night, partially offset by the growth in advertising and media revenue. Results of Operations On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong. The below discussion of the results of operations for 2015 include results for eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. Operating expense tables below present total expenses including eLong as well as eLong specific amounts included within the consolidated total. On September 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Orbitz. Orbitz was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and we have recognized $196 million in revenue and $163 million in operating losses, including restructuring charges of $92 million as well as fees related to the acquisition, for 2015. On December 15, 2015, we completed our acquisition of HomeAway. HomeAway was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and we have recognized $20 million in revenue and $14 million in operating loss, including fees related to the acquisition, in 2015. The results of HomeAway did not have a material impact on our results of operations. 57 Table of Contents Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Core OTA $ 5,877 $ 4,904 $ 4,069 20 % 21 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 333 281 173 19 % 62 % Egencia 400 400 365 0 % 10 % HomeAway 20 N/A N/A eLong 42 178 164 N/A 9 % Total revenue $ 6,672 $ 5,763 $ 4,771 16 % 21 % In 2015, revenue increased primarily due to growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and EAN as well as growth at trivago, partially offset by a decrease in revenue due to the sale of eLong. In 2014, revenue increased primarily due to growth in hotel and advertising and media revenue. Acquisitions added approximately 8% and 1% to the year-over-year growth rates in total revenue for 2015 and 2014. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 14% (17% excluding eLong) in 2015 primarily due to a 19% (36% excluding eLong) increase in room nights stayed driven by the inorganic impact of acquisitions as well as the healthy growth in Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, partially offset by a 4% decrease (14% excluding eLong) in revenue per room night in 2015. Absent eLong, revenue per room night decreased primarily due to strategic margin reductions aimed at expanding the size and availability of our global hotel supply portfolio, an unfavorable foreign exchange impact, both in translation and in book-to-stay, as well as increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs. Revenue per room night is expected to continue to decrease year-over-year in 2016. Absent impacts due to the sale of eLong, ADRs decreased by 5% primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. Acquisitions added approximately 6% of inorganic hotel revenue growth in 2015 and 7% of room night growth. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 18% in 2014 primarily due to a 26% increase in room nights stayed driven by Brand Expedia and Hotels.com, partially offset by a 6% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to efforts to expand the size and availability of the global hotel supply portfolio as well as promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs. This decline was partially offset by a 2% increase in ADRs in 2014 compared to 2013. Worldwide air revenue increased 21% (25% excluding eLong) in 2015 due to a 28% (35% excluding eLong) increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 6% (7% excluding eLong) decrease in revenue per air ticket. Acquisitions added approximately 18% of inorganic air revenue growth in 2015 and 15% of air ticket growth. Worldwide air revenue increased 22% in 2014 primarily due to a 28% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 5% decrease in revenue per air ticket. Air tickets sold growth was primarily driven by Brand Expedia, including the Travelocity-branded websites. The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, fees related to our corporate travel business and HomeAway revenue, increased by 19% in 2015 and 29% in 2014 primarily due to strong growth in advertising and media revenue as well as growth in our travel insurance and car rental products. 58 Table of Contents In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 4,204 $ 3,749 $ 3,360 12 % 12 % Agency 1,882 1,535 1,092 23 % 41 % Advertising and media (1) 566 479 319 18 % 50 % HomeAway 20 N/A N/A Total revenue $ 6,672 $ 5,763 $ 4,771 16 % 21 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. The increase in merchant revenue in 2015 and 2014 was primarily due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue driven by an increase in room nights stayed. The increase in agency revenue in 2015 and 2014 was primarily due to the growth in agency hotel and air. The increase in advertising and media revenue in 2015 and 2014 was primarily due to continued growth in trivago and Expedia Media Solutions. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 569 $ 536 $ 481 6 % 11 % Credit card processing 451 414 358 9 % 16 % Data center and other 290 229 199 26 % 16 % Total cost of revenue (1) $ 1,310 $ 1,179 $ 1,038 11 % 14 % % of revenue 19.6 % 20.5 % 21.8 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ 37 $ 58 $ 44 N/A 32 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain pre-purchased hotel supply at eLong, and stock-based compensation. In 2015, the increase in cost of revenue expense was driven by $61 million of higher data center and other costs as well as $37 million of higher net credit card processing costs related to growth of our merchant bookings partially offset by a decrease in fraud and chargeback expenses. In addition, customer operation expenses increased $33 million to support volume growth across the Company. Acquisitions added approximately 8% of year-on-year cost of revenue growth for 2015. In 2014, the increase in cost of revenue expense was driven by $56 million of higher net credit card processing costs, including fraud and charge backs, related to growth of our merchant bookings as well as $55 million increases in customer operations expenses primarily due to an increase in transaction costs and volumes period over period. 59 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 2,718 $ 2,256 $ 1,714 20 % 32 % Indirect costs 663 552 482 20 % 15 % Total selling and marketing (1) $ 3,381 $ 2,808 $ 2,196 20 % 28 % % of revenue 50.7 % 48.7 % 46.0 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ 54 $ 124 $ 119 N/A 4 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $573 million during 2015 compared to the same periods in 2014 driven by increases of $462 million of direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. Brand Expedia, trivago, Hotels.com and Hotwire accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increase. In addition, higher personnel expenses of $111 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by the additional personnel due to an accelerated pace of hiring in the lodging supply organization as well as an increase of stock-based compensation of $15 million. Acquisitions added approximately 8% of year-on-year selling and marketing growth for 2015. Selling and marketing expenses increased $612 million in 2014 compared to 2013 driven by increase of $542 million in direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. Brand Expedia, including commissions related to the Travelocity agreement, trivago and Hotels.com accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increase. In addition, higher personnel expenses of $70 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by the ramping up of hiring in the lodging supply organization, which is expected to continue into 2015, and additional personnel at trivago and certain of our Core OTA brands, as well as a higher incentive compensation accrual. Acquisitions added approximately 2% to year-on-year selling and marketing expense growth. Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 434 $ 370 $ 324 17 % 14 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 265 214 163 24 % 31 % Other 131 102 91 29 % 12 % Total technology and content (1) $ 830 $ 686 $ 578 21 % 19 % % of revenue 12.4 % 11.9 % 12.1 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ 11 $ 21 $ 14 N/A 54 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. 60 Table of Contents Technology and content expense increased $144 million for 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to increased personnel and overhead costs of $64 million to support key technology projects primarily for our corporate technology function and Brand Expedia, increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $51 million as well as an increase in other costs of $29 million due to higher licensing and maintenance and data center costs to support the growth of the technology platforms. Acquisitions added approximately 6% to year-on-year technology and content growth for 2015. Technology and content expense increased $108 million in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $51 million as well as increased personnel and overhead costs, net of capitalized salary costs, of $46 million for additional personnel to support key technology projects for Brand Expedia, eLong, our corporate technology function and trivago, as well as a higher incentive compensation accrual. General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 330 $ 277 $ 248 19 % 12 % Professional fees and other 244 148 129 65 % 15 % Total general and administrative (1) $ 574 $ 425 $ 377 35 % 13 % % of revenue 8.6 % 7.4 % 7.9 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ 23 $ 24 $ 15 N/A 62 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense increased $149 million in 2015 compared to 2014 due primarily to higher professional fees and other of $96 million driven mostly by higher stock-based compensation of $39 million, which was primarily due to additional options granted during the current year as well as expense related to replacement awards issued in connection with acquisitions, as well as an increase of $31 million due to higher consulting and legal fees related to heightened merger and acquisition activity. In addition, personnel and overhead expenses increased $53 million in 2015 compared to 2014. Acquisitions, including acquisition-related expenses, added approximately 24% of year-on-year general and administrative growth for 2015. General and administrative expense increased $48 million in 2014 compared to 2013 due primarily to personnel and overhead expense increases of $29 million, of which additional headcount costs, including higher incentive compensation accruals, drove the majority of the total increase. Professional fees and other increased $19 million during 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to an increase in acquisition-related expenses of $10 million as well as higher stock-based compensation of $8 million. Amortization of Intangible Assets Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 164 $ 80 $ 72 106 % 11 % % of revenue 2.5 % 1.4 % 1.5 % 61 Table of Contents Amortization of intangible assets increased $84 million in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions, including Orbitz and HomeAway. In 2014, amortization increased $8 million compared to 2013 primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions, partially offset by the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets. Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ (105 ) $ 42 $ 78 (352 %) (47 %) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of increases in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. During 2015, we received a refund of prepaid pay-to-play payments of $132 million from the State of Hawaii in connection with the general excise tax litigation. In addition, during 2015, we recorded a $24 million benefit in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other for the recovery of costs related to occupancy tax litigation matters. These gains were partially offset by charges for changes in our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. During 2014, we recognized approximately $25.5 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the San Francisco occupancy tax proceedings. During 2013, we recognized $64 million for amounts paid or expected to be paid in advance of litigation primarily related to penalties and interest in connection with Hawaiis general excise tax litigation. For additional information, see Note 17 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In connection with the migration of technology platforms and centralization of technology, supply and other operations, primarily related to acquisition integrations including Orbitz and the Wotif Group, we recognized $105 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2015. The charges were primarily related to employee severance and benefits related to the Orbitz integration and represent estimated severance amounts under pre-existing written plans and contracts Orbitz had with its employees, as well as stock-compensation charges of $33 million for acceleration of replacement awards pursuant to certain of these agreements. We expect to incur approximately $30 million to $40 million in 2016 related to these integrations. In conjunction with the migration of technology platforms and centralization of technology, supply and other operations primarily related to acquisition integration including Wotif Group, we recognized $26 million in restructuring charges during the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2014. These charges were primarily related to severance and related benefits as well as an Australian stamp duty tax that is payable to certain Australian jurisdictions related to business restructuring events. For additional information, see Note 15 Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Acquisition-related and other During 2013, we recorded approximately $57 million of stock-based compensation to acquisition-related and other expense in connection with the trivago acquisition as well as $10 million related to the upfront consideration paid to settle a portion of an employee compensation plan of trivago. For additional information, see Note 3 Acquisitions and Other Investments in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 62 Table of Contents Operating Income Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Operating income $ 414 $ 518 $ 366 (20 %) 41 % % of revenue 6.2 % 9.0 % 7.7 % In 2015, operating income decreased due to increased costs and expenses, including growth in selling and marketing expense in excess of revenue growth, growth in general and administrative expense in excess of revenue growth as well as an increase in restructuring and related reorganization charges, partially offset by the gain of $132 million related to the Hawaii pay-to-play refunds discussed above. In 2014, operating income increased due to the growth in revenue, acquisition-related and other expenses in 2013 that did not recur and lower legal reserve, occupancy tax and other charges in 2014, partially offset by restructuring and related reorganization charges in 2014. Included in our consolidated operating income for 2015 are operating losses for eLong through its disposition date of May 22, 2015 of $86 million. In the prior year periods, eLong had operating losses of $51 million for 2014 and operating losses of $29 million for 2013. Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 17 $ 27 $ 25 (39 %) 10 % Interest expense (126 ) (98 ) (87 ) 29 % 12 % Interest income decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower invested balances and lower rates of return. Lower rates of return were due to a shift out of higher-yielding currencies due to the sale of eLong and funding U.S. dollar denominated acquisitions, and lower market rates in certain currencies. Interest income increased in 2014 primarily due to higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances. Interest expense increased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily as a result of additional interest on the $500 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2014, the Euro 650 million of senior unsecured notes issued in June 2015 as well as the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in December 2015. Interest expense increased in 2014 compared to 2013 primarily as a result of additional interest on the $500 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2014. As of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, our long-term indebtedness totaled $3.2 billion, $1.7 billion and $1.3 billion. Gain on Sale of Business On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong, Inc. for approximately $671 million (or $666 million net of costs to sell and other transaction expenses) to several purchasers, including Ctrip.com International, Ltd. As a result of the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $509 million ($395 million after tax) during 2015 included in gain on sale of business in our consolidated statement of operations. 63 Table of Contents Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ 25 $ 6 $ (1 ) Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment 77 3 Other 11 9 (2 ) Total other, net $ 113 $ 18 $ (3 ) Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 203 $ 92 $ 84 122 % 9 % Effective tax rate 21.9 % 19.7 % 28.0 % The increase in the effective rate for 2015 compared to 2014 is primarily due to the gain on the sale of eLong during 2015, and the release of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in 2014. Our effective tax rate for 2015 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions outside of the United States, predominately Switzerland, where our statutory income tax rate is lower as well as the sale of eLong, which had a U.S. effective rate of less than 35%. The decrease in the effective rate for 2014 compared to 2013 is primarily due to the expiration of the statute of limitations for the 2001 through 2005 federal tax years and the associated release of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions as well as non-deductible stock-based compensation recorded related to the trivago acquisition and non-deductible penalties included in the Hawaii pay-to-play assessments in 2013. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions outside of the United States as well as the release of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions. In 2013, our effective tax rate was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, partially offset by recording a valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets of certain Australian and Chinese entities in 2013 as well as non-deductible charges in 2013 in connection with the trivago acquisition and Hawaii pay-to-play assessments mentioned above. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.7 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2015 and 2014, including $645 million and $369 million of cash and short-term investment balances held in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries (which includes $441 million and $190 million related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States) as well as $72 million and $304 million held in majority-owned subsidiaries, which is also indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility. Cumulative earnings related to undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to indefinitely reinvest outside of the United States totaled $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2015. To date, we have permanently reinvested the majority of these foreign earnings outside of the United States and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Should we distribute earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to U.S. income taxes. 64 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2015, we maintained a $1 billion revolving credit facility that had a September 2019 maturity date, of which $971 million was available, representing the total $1 billion facility less $29 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit (LOC). The facility contained various restrictive covenants, including a maximum permissible leverage ratio and a minimum permissible interest coverage ratio, and interest payable under the facility was based on the Companys credit ratings. As of December 31, 2015, the maximum permissible leverage ratio and the minimum interest coverage were both 3.25 to 1.00, the applicable interest rate on drawn amounts was LIBOR plus 150 basis points and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts was 20 basis points. In February 2016, we entered into an amendment to the revolving credit facility that, among other things, increased the aggregate commitments under the facility to $1.5 billion, extended the maturity date to February 2021, reduced the currently applicable interest rate on drawn amounts by 12.5 basis points to LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts by 2.5 basis points to 17.5 basis points, increased the maximum permissible leverage ratio to 3.75 to 1.00 and reduced the minimum permissible interest coverage ratio to 3.00 to 1.00. In June 2015, we issued Euro 650 million of registered senior unsecured notes that are due in June 2022 and bear interest at 2.5% (the 2.5% Notes). The 2.5% Notes were issued at 99.525% of par resulting in a discount, which is being amortized over their life. Interest is payable annually in arrears in June of each year, beginning June 3, 2016. In December 2015, we privately placed $750 million of senior unsecured notes that are due in February 2026 and bear interest at 5.0% (the 5.0% Notes). The 5.0% Notes were issued at 99.535% of par resulting in a discount, which is being amortized over their life. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears in February and August of each year, beginning August 15, 2016. We used or expect to use the net proceeds of this offering to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the HomeAway acquisition, to refinance existing HomeAway indebtedness and for other general corporate purposes. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of December 31, 2015, Moodys rating was Ba1 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited to access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2015, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt, which was comprised of $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2018 that bear interest at 7.456% (the 7.456% Notes), $750 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2020 that bear interest at 5.95% (the 5.95% Notes), $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2024 that bear interest at 4.5% (the 4.5% Notes), the 2.5% Notes and the 5.0% Notes. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we are using both the merchant model and the agency model in many of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally 65 Table of Contents consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel, advertising or certain Expedia Affiliate Network relationships, or if there are changes to the merchant model, supplier payment terms, or booking patterns that compress the time period between our receipt of cash from travelers and our payment to suppliers, such as with mobile bookings via smartphones, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. Our future working capital benefits could also be impacted by the transition of our recent HomeAway acquisitions shift to more of a transactional model from a subscription model. As our ETP program continues to expand, and depending on relative traveler and supplier adoption rates and customer payment preferences, among other things, the scaling up of ETP has and will continue to negatively impact near term working capital cash balances, cash flow, relative liquidity during the transition, and hotel revenue margins. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, as well as the assimilation and transformation of the HomeAway vacation rental listing business, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of December 31, 2015, we had a deficit in our working capital of $2.9 billion, compared to a deficit of $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2014. The change in deficit is primarily due to financing and investing activities, including cash paid for the business acquisitions and capital expenditures, partially offset by proceeds from the 2.5% Notes and the 5.0% Notes as well as the proceeds from the sale of eLong. Business acquisitions in the current year included HomeAway, Orbitz Worldwide, AirAsia-Expedia and Travelocity and capital expenditures included our new corporate headquarters. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions (including purchases of non-controlling interest), share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our capital expenditures for 2016 are expected to be broadly in line with 2015 spending levels and are expected to include approximately $70 million related to the build out of our new corporate headquarters. The build out will continue through 2019 with more significant spend related to the project occurring in 2017 and 2018. Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2015 2014 2013 2015 vs 2014 2014 vs 2013 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in) continuing operations: Operating activities $ 1,368 $ 1,367 $ 763 $ 1 $ 604 Investing activities (2,371 ) (924 ) (526 ) (1,447 ) (398 ) Financing activities 1,404 48 (493 ) 1,356 541 Net cash provided by discontinued operations 14 (14 ) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (127 ) (109 ) (31 ) (18 ) (78 ) In 2015, net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations remained essentially flat as a net refund of hotel occupancy and other taxes was mostly offset by decreased benefits from working capital changes, including increases in income tax and interest payments. In 2014, net cash provided by operating 66 Table of Contents activities from continuing operations increased by $604 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes, higher operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization as well as lower pay-to-play tax assessment payments in the current year. In 2015, cash used in investing activities from continuing operations increased by $1.4 billion primarily due to an increase of cash used for acquisitions of $1.5 billion due primarily to our acquisition of Orbitz in September 2015 and HomeAway in December 2015 as well as higher capital expenditures of $460 million, including amounts paid for our new corporate headquarters, partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of eLong of $524 million. In 2014, cash used in investing activities from continuing operations increased $398 million primarily due to net purchases of investments of $32 million in the current period compared to cash provided by net sales and maturities of investments of $286 million in 2013 as well as a cash outflow of $5 million due to the net settlement of foreign currency forwards compared to a cash inflow of $41 million in the prior year. Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations in 2015 primarily included $700 million of net proceeds for the issuance of 2.5% Notes in June 2015, $741 million in net proceeds for the issuance of the 5.0% Notes in December 2015, $120 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans as well as the issuance of treasury stock, and $91 million in excess tax benefit on equity awards, of which approximately $47 million related to the excess tax benefit associated with the stock options exercised by our Chairman and Senior Executive. These financing inflows were offset in part by $85 million of withholding taxes for stock option exercises paid on behalf of our Chairman and Senior Executive in exchange for surrendering a portion of his vested shares, which were concurrently cancelled, as well as cash paid to acquire shares of $61 million primarily under the repurchase authorizations discussed below, and $109 million cash dividend payments. Cash provided by financing activities from continuing operations in 2014 primarily included $493 million of net proceeds for the issuance of 4.5% Notes in August 2014 and $129 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans as well as the issuance of treasury stock, partially offset by cash paid to acquire shares of $538 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2012 authorization discussed below, and $85 million cash dividend payment. Cash used in financing activities from continuing operations in 2013 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $523 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2012 authorization discussed below, as well as $76 million cash dividend payments, partially offset by $82 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans as well as the issuance of treasury stock. During 2012, 2010, and 2006, our Board of Directors, or the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock during each of the respective years and during 2015 authorized a repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock for a total of 70 million shares. Shares repurchased under the authorized programs were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2015 2014 2013 Number of shares repurchased 0.5 million 7.0 million 9.3 million Average price per share $ 85.27 $ 76.26 $ 55.59 Total cost of repurchases (in millions) (1) $ 45 $ 537 $ 515 (1) Amount excludes transaction costs. As of December 31, 2015, 11.2 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under the 2012 and 2015 authorizations with no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Our common stock dividend was $0.84 per share for 2015, $0.66 per share for 2014 and $0.56 per share for 2013. See Note 13 Stockholders Equity in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a detail of the quarterly dividend payments by year. In addition, in February 2016, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 30, 2016 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 10, 2016. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. 67 Table of Contents The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2015 showed a net change of $18 million reflecting higher depreciation in foreign currencies in the current year compared to the prior year. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2014 showed a net change of $78 million reflecting higher depreciation in foreign currencies in the 2014 compared to 2013. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost of availability of future borrowings, including refinancing, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2015: By Period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Long-term debt (1) $ 4,687 $ 562 $ 819 $ 995 $ 2,311 Operating leases (2) 526 112 194 111 109 Purchase obligations (3) 245 157 82 6 Guarantees (4) 192 179 13 Letters of credit (4) 55 51 3 1 Total (5) $ 5,705 $ 1,061 $ 1,111 $ 1,113 $ 2,420 (1) Our 7.456% Notes, 5.95% Notes, 2.5% Notes, 4.5% Notes, and 5.0% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2018, 2020, 2022, 2024, and 2026 respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. For the 2.5% Notes, the December 31, 2015 Euro exchange rate was used to convert the Euro 650 million to U.S. Dollars and calculate the related U.S. Dollar interest payments. In addition, the repayment of the $403 million related to the HomeAway Convertible Notes included in accrued expenses and other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2015 has been included in the less than one year amounts. (2) The operating leases are for office space and related office equipment. We account for these leases on a monthly basis. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2026. (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily for certain regulatory purposes as well as to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. Of the outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs, $29 million directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authorities of certain foreign countries to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within those countries. These countries hold all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. Our guarantees also include bonds relating to tax assessments that we are contesting and certain surety bonds related to various company performance obligations. (5) Excludes $171 million of unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. 68 Table of Contents During March 2013, we completed the purchase of a 63% equity position in trivago. The purchase agreement contains certain put/call rights whereby we may acquire and the minority shareholders of trivago may sell to us up to 50% and 100% of the minority shares of the company at fair value during two windows, the first of which opens in the first quarter of 2016. Our redeemable noncontrolling interest balance related to trivago was $654 million as of December 31, 2015, which has not been included within the contractual obligations table above and represents our best estimate of fair value. The final redemption amount could materially differ from this estimate based on the final negotiations. The second put/call window opens in 2018. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2015. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see Note 18 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Part II.