Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Factors Affecting Our PerformanceRetaining Existing Customers"), expand usage within organizations, retain and increase sales to existing customers and attract new members and customers; our ability to convert individuals and organizations using our free features or trial subscriptions into paying customers; our ability to predictably generate revenue through marketing and sales efforts; the timing and success of new features, integrations, capabilities and enhancements by us to our platform, or by our competitors to their products, or any other changes in the competitive landscape of our market; our ability to grow and maintain our relationships and/or integrations with our network of third-party partners, including integration partners, channel partners and professional service partners; our ability to regulate members and member interactions on an increasingly collaborative platform; our ability to grow revenue share and customer referrals from our partner ecosystem; our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; the success of our customers businesses; our ability to achieve widespread acceptance and use of our platform and features, including the Expensify Card and any new features we may introduce; our ability to retain customers on annual subscriptions; our ability to maintain and improve employee efficiency, and our ability to manage third party, outsourced or open source workers to provide value-added services like receipt processing, customer support and engineering; 20 Table of Contents errors in our forecasting of the demand for our platform and features, which would lead to lower revenue, increased costs, or both; the amount and timing of operating expenses and capital expenditures, as well as entry into operating leases, that we may incur to maintain and expand our business and operations and to remain competitive; the timing of expenses and recognition of revenue; actual or perceived security breaches, technical difficulties, or interruptions to our platform and features; pricing pressure as a result of competition or otherwise; ineffective pricing strategies that could limit customer base expansion, revenue growth and subscription renewals; adverse litigation judgments, other dispute-related settlement payments, or other litigation-related costs; the number of new employees hired; the timing of the grant or vesting of equity awards to employees, directors, or consultants; declines in the values of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar; changes in, and continuing uncertainty in relation to, the legislative or regulatory environment; legal and regulatory compliance costs in new and existing markets; costs and timing of expenses related to the potential acquisition of talent, technologies, businesses or intellectual property, and their integration, including potentially significant amortization costs and possible write-downs; health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or other conditions that impact travel and business spending; and general economic and market conditions in either domestic or international markets, including geopolitical uncertainty and instability and their effects on software spending. Any one or more of the factors above may result in significant fluctuations in our quarterly and annual results of operations, which may negatively impact the trading price of our Class A common stock. You should not rely on our past results as an indicator of our future performance. The variability and unpredictability of our quarterly and annual results of operations or other operating metrics could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of investors or analysts with respect to revenue or other metrics for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the trading price of our Class A common stock could fall, and we would face litigation, including securities class action lawsuits, which could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies on a timely basis or at all. Even if we are successful, if we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and results of operations could be harmed. We operate in a relatively new and rapidly changing category of preaccounting software, and widespread acceptance and use of our platform and features, particularly our expense management feature, is critical 21 Table of Contents to our future growth and success. We believe our growth depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: attract new individuals and organizations to use our features, particularly our expense management feature; convert individuals and organizations using our free features or trial subscriptions into paying customers; grow or maintain our gross logo retention rate and net seat retention rate, and expand usage within organizations; price our subscription plans effectively and competitively; retain our existing individual and organizational customers; achieve widespread acceptance and use of our platform and features, including in markets outside of the United States; continue to successfully advance our bottom-up sales strategy as well as strategic relationships with our channel partners; continue to maintain and build a platform and brand that drives word-of-mouth exposure to new potential members; grow or maintain our brand through marketing, advertising campaigns, partnerships and other methods; gain member traction for and generate revenue from our new features and services; grow or maintain current levels of consideration from a vendor and/or fees generated through transaction-based features; expand the features and capabilities of our platform and features; provide excellent customer experience and customer support; maintain the security and reliability of our platform and features; maintain the trust of our customers; successfully compete against established companies and new market entrants, as well as existing software tools; successfully respond to other competitive challenges in the United States and globally; attract, hire and retain highly skilled personnel; the impact of any future pandemic, epidemic or other public health crisis and the corresponding pace and rate of recovery on our business; obtain, expand, maintain, enforce and protect our intellectual property portfolio; operate as a public company; grow our member and customer base in new countries and/or markets, and increase awareness of our brand on a global basis; and obtain and maintain compliance and licenses material to our current and future businesses, and comply with existing and new applicable laws and regulations including in markets outside of the United States. 22 Table of Contents If we are unable to accomplish these tasks, our growth, including our revenue growth, would be harmed. Our ability to accurately plan for and model future growth is limited and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, due in part to our global operations, customer preferences and mix of products and features. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan our business strategies and operations, are incorrect or change due to industry or market developments, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating results could differ materially from our expectations and our business could suffer. Additionally, the growth and expansion of our business and platform may place a significant strain on our management and our administrative, operational and financial reporting resources. For example, we are required to manage multiple relationships with various strategic, integration and channel partners, customers and other third parties. In the event of further growth of our operations or in the number of our third-party relationships, our computer systems, procedures, or internal controls may not be adequate to support our operations, and our management may not be able to manage such growth effectively. To effectively manage growth, we must continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management information and reporting systems and manage our employee base. If future revenue growth does not offset any increases in our operating expenses, our business, results of operations, and financial condition will be harmed, and we may not be able to maintain profitability. In addition, as we seek to continue to expand internationally, we will likely encounter unexpected challenges and expenses due to unfamiliarity with local regulations, requirements, practices and markets. Our expense management feature drives the majority of our subscriptions, and any failure of this feature to satisfy customer demands or to achieve increased market acceptance could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. A majority of our subscriptions are driven by bottom-up adoption related to our expense management feature. Although we have added, and expect to continue to add, new features to expand our offerings, and all of our features are accessible under a single subscription, at least in the near term, we expect our expense management feature to continue to drive the majority of our subscriptions. As a result, market acceptance of our expense management feature is critical to our success. Demand for our expense management feature, as well as our other features, is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as the adoption of our features by new and existing customers; the timing of development and release of upgraded or new features on our platform; products and services introduced or upgraded by our competitors or partners; our ability to determine optimal pricing for our platform, including in international markets; pricing offered by our competitors; technological change; and growth or contraction in our addressable market. We increased our subscription prices in 2020, and although the increased prices have not substantially affected our business to date, we cannot guarantee any future price increases we choose to implement will not adversely affect our business. If we are unable to meet customer demand for our expense management feature; do not price our subscriptions optimally or make changes to our subscription or pricing models that are not accepted by the market; or fail to convert members of our free expense management feature or trial subscriptions to paying subscribers, our business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects will suffer. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs or preferences, our platform may become less competitive. The software industry is subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and practices and changing customer needs and preferences. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to these changes by continually modifying and enhancing our features to keep pace with changes in hardware systems and software applications, database technology and evolving technical standards and interfaces on a timely basis. If we are unable to develop and market new technology, features and functionality for our platform that keep pace with rapid technological and industry change and satisfy our customers, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If new technologies emerge that deliver competitive products at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely, it could adversely impact our ability to compete. 23 Table of Contents Our platform must also integrate with a variety of network, hardware, mobile and software platforms and technologies. We need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to adapt to changes and innovation in these technologies. This development effort may require significant engineering, marketing and sales resources, all of which would affect our business and operating results. Any failure of our platform to operate effectively with future technologies could reduce the demand for our platform. If we are unable to respond to these changes in a cost effective manner, our platform may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our operating results may be negatively affected. If we are unable to attract new customers on a cost-effective basis, convert individuals using our free basic expense management feature and organizations using our trial subscriptions into paying customers, retain existing customers and expand usage within organizations, our revenue growth will be harmed. To increase our revenue, we must increase our customer base through various methods, including but not limited to, retaining existing customers, adding new customers, converting individuals using our free basic expense management feature and organizations using our trial subscriptions into paying customers, and expanding usage within organizations. Our business is subscription-based, with monthly and annual subscriptions, and customers are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire. One of our primary marketing strategies is to offer a free basic version of our expense management feature to individuals within organizations. We rely on these individuals to expose others within their organizations to our platform and features and to convince those individuals to become new members, which could eventually lead to the engagement of the organization or individuals or departments within the organization as paying customers. To encourage viral adoption, we offer viral features that are free and accessible without a paid subscription, and we also offer time-limited trial subscriptions. We believe these free basic features and trial subscriptions promote brand awareness and organic adoption of our platform. While our viral model means that employees or contractors often introduce Expensify into SMBs, companies subscribe and pay for the majority of our paid members. To the extent that increasing numbers of these individuals and organizations who utilize the free aspects of our platform do not become, or lead others to become, paying customers, we will not realize the intended benefits of these marketing strategies, we will continue to pay the costs associated with hosting such free basic features and trial subscriptions, our ability to grow our business will be harmed, and our business, results of operations and financial condition will suffer. Numerous factors may impede our ability to attract new customers, convert individuals and organizations using our free basic features and trial subscriptions into paying customers, expand usage within organizations, increase use of our other features such as the Expensify Card and gain new subscriptions, including but not limited to, failure to retain and motivate our personnel; failure to establish, maintain or expand relationships with channel and integration partners; failure to compete effectively against alternative products or services; our ability to determine optimal pricing for our subscriptions, including in international markets; failure to successfully deploy new features and integrations; failure to provide a quality customer experience and customer support; or failure to ensure the effectiveness of our bottom-up sales approach and other marketing programs. Channel partnerships are also an important aspect of our growth strategy, and we will need to maintain our partnerships with existing channel partners and identify and attract new channel partners in order to maintain the effectiveness of this strategy. Moreover, we believe that many of our new customers originate from word-of-mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing customers, so we must ensure that our existing customers remain loyal to our platform in order to continue receiving those referrals. Our business is subscription-based, and customers are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire. We cannot ensure that customers will renew subscriptions with the same or greater number of members or for the same level of subscription plan or that they will upgrade to use features such as bi-directional accounting sync and invoicing features or the Expensify Card. Customers may or may not renew their subscriptions as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our platform; changes we may implement in our pricing 24 Table of Contents or structure; the pricing or capabilities of the products and services offered by our competitors; the effects of general economic conditions; or customers budgetary constraints. If customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, or fail to add members, or if we fail to convert individuals and organizations into paying members, or expand the adoption of our platform within their organizations, our revenue may decline or grow less quickly than anticipated, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to provide additional features to attract new members at existing customers, as well as increase transaction monetization from the Expensify Card. If our efforts to do so are not successful, our revenue may decline or grow less quickly than anticipated, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may fail to accurately predict the optimal pricing strategies necessary to attract new customers, retain existing customers and respond to changing market conditions. We have in the past, and may in the future, need to change our pricing model from time to time. As the market for our platform matures, or as competitors introduce new solutions that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same prices or based on the same pricing models that we have used historically. While we do and will attempt to set prices based on our prior experiences and customer feedback, our assessments may not be accurate and we could be underpricing or overpricing our platform. In addition, if the offerings on our platform change, then we may need to revise our pricing strategies. Any such changes to our pricing strategies or our ability to efficiently price our offerings could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Pricing pressures and decisions could result in reduced sales, reduced margins, losses or the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance, any of which could negatively impact our overall business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the organizations which we target may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, we may be required to price below our targets in the future, which could adversely affect our revenue, profitability, cash flows and financial condition. We may not successfully develop or introduce new features, enhancements, integrations, capabilities and versions of our existing features that achieve market acceptance, and our business could be harmed and our revenue could suffer as a result. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers depends in large part upon the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new features, enhancements, integrations, capabilities and versions of our existing features. If we are unable to expand our platform offerings in a manner that increases retention of existing customers and attracts new customers, our customers could migrate to competitors who may offer a broader or more attractive range of products and services. Unexpected delays in releasing new or enhanced features or versions of our features, or errors following their release, could result in loss of sales, delay in market acceptance of our features, or customer claims against us, any of which could harm our business. The success of any new feature, enhancement, integration, capability or version depends on several factors, including timely completion and delivery, competitive pricing, adequate quality testing, integration with existing technologies, proper marketing of the feature and market acceptance. We may not be able to develop new features successfully or to introduce and gain market acceptance of new features in a timely manner, or at all. The successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new features, enhancements, integrations, capabilities and versions of our existing features is costly and time-consuming, and our business could be harmed if we fail to deliver new features, enhancements, integrations, capabilities and versions of our existing features that meet customer needs on a timely and cost effective basis. For example, in 2021 we released the first version of an open-source financial group chat optimized for financial conversations, designed to be used both in and outside of work, and maintained by a community of open source developers. The current version has a subset of the features of our legacy app available as we continue development. We expect our open-source offering to be a complete rewrite of the Expensify front end, built on a new React Native platform that uses the same codebase across iOS, Android, web and desktop once completed. Although we see this direction as a natural next step in our long-term 25 Table of Contents product vision, we have not developed an open-source financial group chat (or similar feature) before, and it may not meet customer needs, gain member traction or generate revenue sufficient to offset the costs of development, which could harm our business even if and when the feature complete version is released. We face significant competition, the market in which we operate is rapidly evolving, and if we do not compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We face significant competitive challenges from do-it-yourself approaches as well as companies that provide traditional horizontal platform solutions with expense management features, corporate card providers and niche expense management solutions. Traditional do-it-yourself approaches (for example, using spreadsheets, email, messaging and legacy project management tools) are people-intensive and involve internal personnel manually performing expense management processes. Many businesses using do-it-yourself approaches believe that these manual processes are adequate and may be unaware that Expensify can replace several expensive, disconnected services with one fully connected preaccounting platform for a fraction of the cost, resulting in an inertia that can be difficult to overcome. It is difficult to predict adoption rates and demand for our platform, the future growth rate and size of the market for expense management and other preaccounting products, or the entry of competitive offerings. The expansion of the expense management and other preaccounting products market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with these solutions. If expense management and other preaccounting solutions do not achieve widespread adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for expense management and other preaccounting products caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic conditions, security or privacy concerns, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending, or otherwise, it could result in decreased revenue, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, there are a number of competing companies that provide traditional horizontal platform solutions with expense management features, some of which have substantially greater revenue, personnel and other resources than we do. These firms have historically targeted primarily large enterprise customers, but many of them also market to SMBs in search of growth in revenue or market share. We also face competition from a growing number of other businesses offering expense management solutions and corporate cards. Our smaller competitors who currently focus their product offerings on SMBs may be better positioned than larger competitors to increase their market share with SMBs, whether by competing based on price, service, or otherwise. Increased competition may impact our ability to add new customers at the rates we have historically achieved. Additionally, competition may increase in the future from new market entrants. With the introduction of new technologies and the entry of new companies into the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify. This could harm our ability to increase our customer base, maintain subscription renewals and maintain our prices. Additionally, it is possible that large enterprises with substantial resources that operate in adjacent accounting, finance or compliance verticals may decide to pursue expense management automation and become immediate, significant competitors. Merger and acquisition activity in the technology industry could increase the likelihood that we compete with other large technology companies. Many of our existing competitors have, and our potential competitors could have, substantial competitive advantages such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger sales and marketing budgets and resources, greater customer support resources, lower labor and development costs, larger and more mature intellectual property portfolios and substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. Some of our larger competitors also have substantially broader product lines and market focus and will therefore not be as susceptible to downturns in a particular market. Conditions in our market could change rapidly and significantly as a result of technological advancements, partnering by our competitors, or continuing market consolidation. New startup companies that innovate, and large companies that are making significant investments in research and development, may invent similar or superior products and technologies that compete with our platform, including the addition of bottom-up adoption features. Some of our larger competitors use broader product offerings to compete, including by selling at zero or 26 Table of Contents negative margins, by bundling their product, or by closing access to their technology platforms. Potential customers may prefer to purchase from their existing suppliers rather than a new supplier regardless of product performance or features. Furthermore, potential customers may be more willing to incrementally add solutions to their existing infrastructure from competitors than to replace their existing infrastructure with our platform. These competitive pressures in our market, or our failure to compete effectively, may result in price reductions, fewer new customers, lower revenue and loss of market share. Any failure to successfully and effectively compete with current or future competitors could cause us to lose business and harm our revenue growth, business, results of operations and financial condition. An economic downturn or economic uncertainty could negatively impact our customers and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the economic health of our current and prospective customers and the overall state of the economy. Declining levels of economic activity may lead to declines or delays in business spending, declines in the number of paid monthly members of our platform and fewer transactions for which our platform may be used, which may result in decreased revenue for us. Uncertain and adverse economic conditions may cause customers to change their company policies to limit expense reimbursement and have led to increased requests for, and may lead to, increased refunds and chargebacks. Additionally, economic uncertainty and negative economic pressures may cause prospective or existing customers to defer investment or expansion in their business, and they may become more price-sensitive and perceive our platform as too costly. As of December 31, 2024, businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees accounted for approximately 95% of our customers by revenue, and we focus our product, marketing and sales efforts on these businesses, including SMBs. These customers may be more susceptible to general economic conditions than larger businesses, which may have greater liquidity and access to capital. Our competitors, many of whom are larger and more established than we are, may respond to market conditions by lowering their prices and attempting to lure away our customers. Many of our larger competitors currently focus their product offerings on larger customers who may be less susceptible to general economic conditions. As a result, our larger competitors may be better positioned than we are to increase their market share with businesses of all sizes. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our platform offerings. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Payments and other financial services-related laws and regulations and government oversight are material to our business. The actions of various policymakers across government levels may create a complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could materially harm our business and can subject us to criminal and civil liability. The regulatory environment in which we conduct our business is extensive and complex. The local, state, and federal laws, rules, regulations, licensing and other authorization schemes, and industry standards that govern our business, including our payment services, include, or may in the future include, those relating to banking, invoicing, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, payments services (such as payment processing and settlement services), anti-money laundering, combating terrorist financing, escheatment, U.S. and international sanctions regimes, and compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard ("PCI-DSS"), a set of requirements designed to ensure that all companies that process, store, or transmit payment card information maintain a secure environment to protect cardholder data. These laws, rules, regulations, licensing and other authorization schemes, and industry standards are administered and enforced by multiple authorities and governing bodies in the United States, including but not limited to the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Office of Foreign Assets Control, self-regulatory 27 Table of Contents organizations, and numerous state and local governmental and regulatory authorities. These various authorities and governing bodies may enact conflicting laws or regulations that are complex and may change frequently. Responding to such conflicting, complex or changing rules and regulations entails inherent costs, and any actual or perceived failure to comply with existing or new laws and regulations, or orders of any governmental authority, including changes to or expansion of their interpretations, may subject us to significant fines, penalties, criminal and civil lawsuits, forfeiture of significant assets, enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions, result in additional compliance and licensure requirements, and increased regulatory scrutiny of our business. In addition, we may be forced to restrict or change our operations or business practices, make product changes, or delay planned product launches or improvements. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our brand, reputation, business, results of operations, and financial condition. Expensify Payments LLC (Expensify Payments) is a licensed money transmitter (or its equivalent) in various U.S. states and territories and is in the process of obtaining money transmission licenses in a number of additional states and territories. As a licensed money transmitter, Expensify Payments, its ultimate beneficial owners, and its control persons are subject to a range of restrictions and ongoing compliance obligations under the money transmitter statutes (or their equivalent) administered by the banking departments (or their equivalent) of the various U.S. states and territories where it is licensed, including requirements with respect to the investment of customer funds, financial recordkeeping and reporting, reconciliation of customer funds, bonding, minimum capital, minimum net worth, disclosure, and inspection by regulatory authorities concerning various aspects of its business. In a number of cases, evaluation of our compliance efforts, as well as questions of whether and to what extent our activities in connection with the provision of certain products and services (both current and historical) are considered money transmission, are matters of regulatory interpretation and could change over time. In the past, regulators have identified violations or alleged violations by us of certain statutory and regulatory requirements, and we have been subject to fines and other penalties by state regulatory authorities due to their interpretation and application of their respective state money transmitter regime to our activities. As a result of the laws and regulations applicable to us and our business, we are and could in the future be subject to investigations, inspections, examinations, and supervision, and resulting liability, including governmental fines, restrictions on our business, or other similar enforcement actions, and we could be forced to cease conducting certain aspects of our business with residents of certain jurisdictions, be forced to change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, or be required to obtain additional licenses, regulatory approvals, or other similar authorizations. We cannot make any assurances that we will be able to obtain or maintain any such licenses, regulatory approvals, and other similar authorizations, and there could be substantial costs and potential product changes involved in obtaining and maintaining any such licenses, approvals, or other similar authorizations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining and renewing any licenses, regulatory approvals, and other similar authorizations, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, net worth, corporate governance, or other requirements applicable to us, including those required in connection with maintaining such licenses, approvals, or authorizations. These factors could impose substantial additional costs on us, involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our products or services to our customers, require significant and costly operational changes, or prevent us from providing our products or services in any given market. Governmental and regulatory bodies and authorities may also impose new or additional requirements on our business or issue or promulgate new laws, regulations, or rules applicable to persons engaged in money transmission that adversely affect our business, including those that: prohibit, restrict, and/or impose taxes or fees on money transmission transactions in, to or from certain countries or with certain governments, individuals, or entities; impose additional customer identification and customer due diligence requirements; 28 Table of Contents impose additional reporting or recordkeeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring; limit the types of entities capable of providing money transmission services, or impose additional licensing or registration requirements; impose minimum capital or other financial requirements; limit or restrict the revenue that may be generated from money transmission, including revenue from interest earned on customer funds, transaction fees, and revenue derived from foreign exchange; require enhanced disclosures to our money transmission customers; require the principal amount of money transmission originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in trust until paid; limit the number or principal amount of money transmission transactions that may be sent to or from a jurisdiction, whether by an individual or in the aggregate; restrict or limit our ability to process transactions using centralized databases, for example, by requiring that transactions be processed using a database maintained in a particular country or region; or impose other requirements in furtherance of their missions. For example, as a result of the bankruptcy and collapse of Synapse Financial Technologies, Inc., Expensify Payments has become subject to further recordkeeping requirements and received increased inquiries from regulators regarding our record keeping systems and process. These increased requirements and inquiries could lead to increased costs for maintaining our compliance with required regulations. The success of our business largely depends on our senior management team, and we depend on professional services firms for a portion of our finance function. The loss of any key employees or our outsourced finance team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our key executive officers and employees, including our founder and CEO, David Barrett. We also rely on our leadership team in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, services and general and administrative functions, and on mission-critical individual contributors in research and development. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or key employees could have a serious adverse effect on our business. In addition, we depend on certain professional services firms for a portion of our finance function. If we lose the services of these outsourced finance teams for any reason, our ability to complete key accounting processes and reviews and provide timely and accurate financial reporting could be seriously harmed, and we could experience material weaknesses in our disclosure