Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 , Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, in the section entitled Risk Factors in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Registration No. 333-231164) filed by Expedia Group with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 1, 2019, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, believes, could, estimates, expects, goal, intends, likely, may, plans, potential, predicts, projected, seeks, should and will, or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the SEC that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . Overview Expedia Group is one of the worlds largest travel companies. We help knock down the barriers to travel, making it easier, more enjoyable, more attainable and more accessible. We bring the world within reach for customers and partners around the globe. We leverage our platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of businesses and brands to orchestrate the movement of people and the delivery of travel experiences on both a local and global basis. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, activities and experiences providers, cruise lines, vacation rental property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2017 and 2018 represented years of continuing growth for the travel industry. However, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues, natural disasters and macroeconomic concerns are examples of events that contribute to a somewhat uncertain environment, which could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet are driving rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2019, over 45% of U.S. and European leisure and unmanaged corporate travel expenditures are expected to occur online. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe, and are estimated to be in the range of 35% to 45% in 2019. These penetration rates increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which presents an attractive growth opportunity for our business, while also attracting many 31 Table of Contents competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (owned by Booking Holdings), trivago (in which Expedia Group owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Businesses such as Airbnb, Vrbo (previously HomeAway, which Expedia acquired in December 2015) and Booking.com (owned by Booking Holdings) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Furthermore, we see increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations including direct booking functionality and product enhancements by companies such as Google. Finally, traditional consumer ecommerce and group buying websites expanded their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their websites. The online travel industry also saw the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia Group facilitates both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings with our hotel supply partners through both agency-only contracts as well as our hybrid ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. Intense competition also historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our marketing spending on a brand basis, making decisions in each applicable market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity and the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is less favorable than that for our consolidated business, but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. In addition, the crowded online travel environment is now driving certain secondary and tertiary online travel companies to establish marketing agreements with global players in order to leverage distribution and technology capabilities while focusing resources on capturing traveler mind share. Lodging Lodging includes hotel accommodations as well as alternative accommodations primarily made available through Vrbo. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2019, lodging accounted for 66%. Our room night growth has been healthy at 16% in 2017, 13% in 2018 and 9% in the first quarter of 2019. ADRs for rooms on Expedia Group websites increased 3% in 2017, increased 5% in 2018 and decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2019. The decrease in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to the negative impact of foreign exchange. Hotel. We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). Although our relationships with our hotel supply partners remained broadly stable in the past few years, as part of the global rollout of ETP, we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, which has negatively impacted the margin of revenue we earn per booking. In addition, as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night and profitability. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. Current occupancy rates for hotels in the United States remain high; however, U.S. hotel supply has continued to grow, which may put additional pressure on ADRs. In some international markets, hotel supply is being added at a faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions. Companies like Airbnb, Vrbo and Booking.com also added incremental global supply in the alternative accommodations space. In addition, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. We have succeeded in adding supply to our global lodging 32 Table of Contents marketplace with more than 1.1 million properties on our global websites as of March 31, 2019, including approximately 460,000 integrated Vrbo alternative accommodations listings. Alternative Accommodations. With our acquisition of Vrbo (previously HomeAway) and all of its brands in December 2015, we expanded into the fast growing alternative accommodations market. Vrbo is a leader in this market and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia Group. Vrbo has been undergoing a transition from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. Vrbo offers hosts subscription-based listing or pay-per-booking service models. It also generates revenue from a traveler service fee for bookings. As of March 31, 2019, there are over 1.9 million online bookable listings available on Vrbo. Air Significant airline sector consolidation in the United States in recent years generally resulted in lower overall capacity and higher fares, which combined with the significant declines in fuel prices led to record levels of profitability for the U.S. air carriers, further strengthening their position. However, in 2017 and into 2018, there was evidence of discounting by the U.S. carriers while currency headwinds and weaker macroeconomic trends put pressure on international results. Starting in the second half of 2018, there has been evidence of modest fare increases, though it remains unclear if this trend will continue. Ticket prices on Expedia Group websites declined 1% in 2017, increased 2% in 2018 and decreased 1% in the first quarter of 2019. The decrease in the first quarter of 2019 includes the negative impact from foreign exchange. Based on airline reports, demand for airline tickets seems to be strong, helping increase air revenues globally. There is significant correlation between airline revenues and fuel prices, and fluctuations in fuel prices generally take time to be reflected in air revenues. Given current volatility, it is uncertain whether the recent increases in fuel prices will drive further increases in airfares, particularly when considering planned supply increases through capacity additions. We can encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine and as certain supply agreements renew, and continue to add airlines to ensure local coverage in new markets. Air ticket volumes increased 4% in 2017, 5% in 2018 and 11% in the first quarter of 2019. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2019, air accounted for 10%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch website, in addition to Expedia Group Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In the first quarter of 2019, we generated a total of $264 million of advertising and media revenue, a 6% decrease from the same period in 2018, representing 10% of our total worldwide revenue. In 2018, trivago shifted its operational focus, reducing marketing spend to better balance revenue and profit growth. The lower marketing spend negatively impacted revenue growth, while benefiting profitability. This trend continued into the first quarter of 2019 and we expect it to persist for the first half of 2019. Growth Strategy Global Expansion. Our Brand Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, and Expedia Partner Solutions brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. In addition, ebookers offers multi-product online travel reservations in Europe and Wotif.com, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au, lastminute.co.nz and travel.com.au are focused principally on the Australia and New Zealand markets. The Vrbo portfolio offers alternative accommodations websites all around the world. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe and North America. In December 2016, trivago successfully completed its initial public offering and trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol TRVG. In addition, we have commercial agreements in place with Ctrip and eLong in China, Traveloka in Southeast Asia, as well as Despegar in Latin America, among many others. In conjunction with the commercial arrangements with Traveloka and Despegar, we have also made strategic investments in both companies. In the first quarter of 2019, approximately 38% of our worldwide gross bookings and 43% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 21% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating more than two-thirds of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. More recently, we have invested in migrating parts of our technology platform to the cloud, as well as focused on expanding our lodging supply in key focus markets around the world. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio 33 Table of Contents and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedia Groups worldwide traveler base makes our websites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience to drive improvements in conversion. Product Innovation. Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space for more than two decades. Each Expedia Group technology platform is operated by a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and helps customers find and book the best possible travel options. We have made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms, that make it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. Improvements in our global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia continue to enable us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates for those brands. Since 2014, we have acquired Travelocity, Wotif Group and Orbitz Worldwide, including Orbitz, CheapTickets and ebookers, and migrated their brands to the Brand Expedia technology platform. In addition, Orbitz for Business customers were migrated to the Egencia technology platform in 2016. In 2015, we acquired Vrbo (previously HomeAway), including all of its brands. We intend to continue leveraging these technology investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Channel Expansion. Technological innovations and developments continue to create new opportunities for travel bookings. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends, and many of our brands now see more traffic via mobile devices than via traditional PCs. Mobile bookings continue to present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed with a much shorter booking window than we historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. Additionally, our brands are implementing new technologies like voice-based search, chatbots and messaging apps as mobile-based options for travelers. In addition, we are seeing significant cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe mobile represents an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During the first quarter of 2019, more than one in three Expedia Group transactions globally were booked on a mobile device. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel services, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized as the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks for our hotel business and can be several months or more for our alternative accommodations business. Historically, Vrbo has seen seasonally stronger bookings in the first quarter of the year, with the relevant stays occurring during the peak summer travel months. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, have typically been experienced in the second half of the year, particularly the fourth quarter, as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we typically increase marketing during the busy booking period for spring, summer and winter holiday travel. As a result, on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, including the growth of Vrbo, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future, and there may also be business or market driven dynamics that result in short-term impacts to revenue or profitability that differ from the typical seasonal trends. As Vrbo has further shifted to a predominately transaction-based business model for alternative accommodations listings and its booking window elongates, its seasonal trends are more pronounced than our other traditional leisure businesses. 34 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 as well as updates in the current fiscal year provided in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes Legal Proceedings. We are currently involved in fourteen lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue do not apply to us or the services we provide, namely the facilitation of travel planning and reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: State of New Hampshire Litigation. On March 8, 2019, the New Hampshire Supreme Court affirmed the trial courts judgment in favor of the defendant online travel companies, thereby ending the case. Arizona Cities Litigation. On April 3, 2019, the Arizona Supreme Court granted the parties petition/cross-petition for review. The Court has scheduled argument on the appeals for June 4, 2019. Palm Beach County, Florida Litigation. On February 26, 2019, the plaintiff county filed a notice of appeal from the trial courts order granting the defendant platforms motion for summary judgment. Miami Dade County, Florida Litigation. On March 19, 2019, the court granted in part and denied in part the defendants motion to dismiss. On March 29, 2019, the plaintiff county filed an amended complaint. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $54 million as of March 31, 2019 , and $46 million as of December 31, 2018 . Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales or other taxes for hotel and/or other accommodations and/or car rental. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including to the states of New York, New Jersey, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, Maryland, Kentucky, Maine, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, the city of New York and the District of Columbia, as well as certain other jurisdictions. Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue 35 Table of Contents to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. For additional information, including significant pay-to-play payments made by Expedia Group companies as well as reimbursement of certain pay-to-play amounts received by Expedia Group companies, see Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings - Pay-to-Play in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with domestic and foreign tax authorities, some of which, including the City of Los Angeles regarding hotel occupancy taxes and the United Kingdom regarding the application of value added tax (VAT) to our European Union related transactions, may impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. Segments We have four reportable segments: Core Online Travel Agencies (Core OTA), trivago, Vrbo and Egencia. Our Core OTA segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Partner Solutions, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, ebookers, CheapTickets, Hotwire.com, CarRentals.com, Classic Vacations and SilverRail. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Our Vrbo segment operates an online marketplace for the alternative accommodations industry. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked for agency, merchant and Vrbo transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. When Vrbo properties are booked through our Core OTA websites and vice versa, the segments split the third-party revenue for management and segment reporting purposes with the majority of the third-party revenue residing with the website marketing the property or room. The operating metrics, including gross bookings and room nights, are not split but instead generally reside entirely with the website marketing the property or room. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Core OTA $ 23,029 $ 21,171 9 % trivago (1) N/A Vrbo 4,163 3,947 5 % Egencia 2,217 2,078 7 % Total gross bookings $ 29,409 $ 27,196 8 % Revenue Margin Core OTA 8.8 % 9.1 % trivago (1) N/A N/A Vrbo 6.4 % 5.9 % Egencia 6.9 % 7.2 % Total revenue margin 8.9 % 9.2 % 36 Table of Contents ____________________________ (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the same period in 2018 , was primarily driven by growth at our Core OTA segment, including growth at Expedia Partner Solutions and Brand Expedia. Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Core OTA $ 2,037 $ 1,926 6 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 152 197 (23 )% Vrbo 267 234 14 % Egencia 153 151 2 % Total revenue $ 2,609 $ 2,508 4 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily driven by growth in the Core OTA segment, including growth at Expedia Partner Solutions and Brand Expedia, as well as growth at Vrbo, partially offset by declines at trivago. Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Service Type Lodging $ 1,725 $ 1,612 7 % Air 248 242 3 % Advertising and media (1) 264 282 (6 )% Other 372 372 % Total revenue $ 2,609 $ 2,508 4 % ____________________________ (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Lodging revenue increased 7% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , on a 9% increase in room nights stayed driven by growth at Expedia Partner Solutions, Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenue per room night due to the negative impact of foreign exchange. Air revenue increased 3% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , on a 11% increase in air tickets sold driven by growth at Expedia Partner Solutions and Brand Expedia, partially offset by a 7% decrease in revenue per ticket, which was driven by a shift in product mix and reclassification of certain partner fees to other revenue as well as a negative impact from foreign exchange. Advertising and media revenue decreased 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , due to declines at trivago, partially offset by continued growth at Expedia Group Media Solutions. All other revenue, which includes car rental, insurance, destination services and fee revenue related to our corporate travel business, was essentially flat for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 . 37 Table of Contents In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 1,392 $ 1,334 4 % Agency 686 658 4 % Advertising and media 264 282 (6 )% Vrbo 267 234 14 % Total revenue $ 2,609 $ 2,508 4 % Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to the growth in agency air and hotel. Vrbo revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to growth in transactional revenue of approximately 25% driven by a benefit from the traveler service fee, partially offset by subscription revenue decreasing 10%. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 234 $ 218 7 % Credit card processing 125 124 1 % Data center, cloud and other 154 145 6 % Total cost of revenue $ 513 $ 487 5 % % of revenue 19.7 % 19.4 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center and cloud costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , the increase in cost of revenue expense, compared to the same period in 2018 , was driven by $16 million of higher customer operations expenses at Expedia Partner Solutions and Egencia, as well as $9 million of higher data center, cloud and other costs. Cloud expense in cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $32 million , compared to $23 million for the same period of 2018 . Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 1,261 $ 1,239 2 % Indirect costs 274 277 (2 )% Total selling and marketing $ 1,535 $ 1,516 1 % % of revenue 58.8 % 60.4 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations 38 Table of Contents and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization, as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $19 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher direct costs of $22 million as a result of increases at Vrbo, Expedia Partner Solutions and Brand Expedia, which were partially offset by a decrease at trivago. Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 209 $ 203 3 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 132 119 11 % Other 88 74 20 % Total technology and content $ 429 $ 396 9 % % of revenue 16.5 % 15.8 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including cloud expense, licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. Technology and content expense increased $33 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $13 million as well as higher licensing and maintenance expenses. Cloud expense in technology and content was $13 million during both the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 . General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 122 $ 129 (5 )% Professional fees and other 69 70 (1 )% Total general and administrative $ 191 $ 199 (4 )% % of revenue 7.3 % 7.9 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense decreased $8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily driven by lower personnel and overhead costs. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 52 $ 72 (28 )% Amortization of intangible assets decreased $20 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets. 39 Table of Contents Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ 10 $ 3 169 % % of revenue 0.4 % 0.1 % Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. The amounts in the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 primarily related to changes in our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In connection with the centralization and migration of certain operational functions and systems, we recognized $10 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily related to severance and benefits. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect total reorganization charges in 2019 of up to $25 million. These costs could be higher or lower should we make additional decisions in future periods that impact our reorganization efforts and exclude any possible future acquisition, or other, integrations. Operating Loss Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Operating loss $ (131 ) $ (165 ) 21 % % of revenue (5.0 )% (6.6 )% Operating loss decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to a growth in revenue in excess of operating costs. Adjusted EBITDA by Segment Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Core OTA $ 344 $ 323 6 % trivago 24 (28 ) N/A Vrbo (40 ) (21 ) (85 )% Egencia 29 27 9 % Unallocated overhead costs (Corporate) (181 ) (177 ) (3 )% Total Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 176 $ 124 42 % ____________________________ (1) Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA below for more information. Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment operating metric. See Note 12 Segment Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on intersegment transactions, unallocated overhead costs and for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by segment to net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. for the period presented above. 40 Table of Contents Core OTA Adjusted EBITDA increased $21 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to an increase of $111 million in revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses, including an increase in direct sales and marketing expense mostly at Expedia Partner Solutions and Brand Expedia. During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , trivagos Adjusted EBITDA was $24 million compared to an Adjusted EBITDA loss of $28 million for the same period in 2018 with the change resulting from its continued marketing rationalization efforts. Beginning late in the second quarter of 2018, trivago started focusing on improved profitability and made significant reductions in its advertising spend as a result of this increased focus on reducing operating expenditures. Vrbo Adjusted EBITDA loss increased $19 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , due to higher operating expenses from planned investments in performance-based marketing, partially offset by an increase of $33 million in revenue. These marketing investments had a more pronounced impact on Adjusted EBITDA in the first quarter of this year given the increasing seasonality in Vrbos business. Egencia Adjusted EBITDA increased $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , as a result of growth in revenue as well as leverage on operating expenses. Unallocated overhead costs increased $4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , primarily due to higher technology and content expenses to support investments in our ecommerce platform. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 11 $ 11 2 % Interest expense (41 ) (51 ) (20 )% Interest income for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was consistent with the same period in 2018 as a result of higher rates of return offsetting lower invested balances. Interest expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 , as a result of the August 2018 maturity of our $500 million senior unsecured notes. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate losses, net $ (14 ) $ (2 ) Gains on minority equity investments, net 22 37 Other 12 1 Total other, net $ 20 $ 36 For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , other, net included a $12 million gain related to the release of a non-operating liability previously recorded in connection with an acquisition, which was deemed not probable of payment. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (41 ) $ (20 ) 101 % Effective tax rate 29.2 % 12.0 % 41 Table of Contents We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. We record any changes affecting the estimated annual effective tax rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , the effective tax rate was a 29.2% benefit on pre-tax loss, compared to 12.0% benefit on a pre-tax loss for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The change was primarily driven by foreign rate differential, an increase in excess tax benefits related to share-based payments, as well as other tax items. We are subject to taxation in the United States and various other state and foreign jurisdictions. We are under examination by the IRS for our 2009 through 2013 tax years. Subsequent years remain open to examination by the IRS. We do not anticipate a significant impact to our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months related to these years. During first quarter of 2017, the IRS issued proposed adjustments related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for our 2009 to 2010 audit cycle. The proposed adjustments would increase our U.S. taxable income by $105 million, which would result in federal tax of approximately $37 million, subject to interest. We do not agree with the proposed adjustments and are formally protesting the IRS position. Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Adjusted EBITDA is among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a description of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included above, in the Legal Proceedings section, as well as the notes to the financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measure used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group adjusted for (1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests; (2) provision for income taxes; (3) total other expenses, net; (4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (5) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, if any, and (iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, if any; (6) certain other items, including restructuring; (7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other; (8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and (9) depreciation. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. 42 Table of Contents The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In millions) Net loss attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. $ (103 ) $ (137 ) Net (income) loss attributable to non-controlling interests 3 (12 ) Provision for income taxes (41 ) (20 ) Total other expense, net 10 4 Operating loss (131 ) (165 ) Gain (loss) on revenue hedges related to revenue recognized 3 (3 ) Restructuring and related reorganization charges 10 Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other 10 3 Stock-based compensation 56 50 Amortization of intangible assets 52 72 Depreciation 176 167 Adjusted EBITDA $ 176 $ 124 Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $4.2 billion and $2.5 billion at March 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018 , and our $2 billion revolving credit facility, which is essentially untapped and expires in May 2023. The revolving credit facility bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings with the applicable interest rate on drawn amounts at LIBOR plus 125 basis points and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts at 17.5 basis points as of March 31, 2019 . As of March 31, 2019 , the total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $856 million ( $623 million in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and $233 million in majority-owned subsidiaries). Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of March 31, 2019 , Moodys rating was Ba1 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable, which Fitch subsequently upgraded to BBB in April 2019 following our announcement of an agreement to acquire Liberty Expedia Holdings, Inc. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of March 31, 2019 , we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt, which was comprised of $750 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2020 that bear interest at 5.95%, $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2024 that bear interest at 4.5%, Euro 650 million of registered senior unsecured notes due in June 2022 that bear interest at 2.5%, $750 million of registered senior unsecured notes due in February 2026 that bear interest at 5.0% and the $1 billion of registered senior unsecured notes due in February 2028 that bear interest at 3.8%. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we are using both the merchant model and the agency model in many of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel, advertising or certain Expedia Partner Solutions relationships, or if there are changes to the merchant model, supplier payment terms, or booking patterns that compress the time period between our receipt of cash from travelers and our payment to suppliers, such as with mobile bookings via smartphones, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. Our future working capital benefits could also be impacted by Vrbos continued shift to become the merchant of record on more of its transactions. 43 Table of Contents Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, as well as the transformation of the Vrbo alternative accommodations listing business, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2019 , we had a deficit in our working capital of $ 3.0 billion , which increased slightly compared to the deficit of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2018 . We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. In addition, in 2016, we began our expansion into the cloud computing environment. While our cloud computing expenses have increased and are expected to continue to increase significantly over the next few years, they are expected to result in lower overall capital expenditures related to our data centers over time. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions (including purchases of non-controlling interest), share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Excluding capital expenditures associated with the build out of our new corporate headquarters, we expect total capital expenditures for full year 2019 to increase over 2018 spending levels. For the new headquarters, we expect to spend approximately $900 million. Of the total, approximately $290 million was spent between 2016 and 2018, and $79 million was spent in the first quarter of 2019. During full year 2019 and 2020, we expect to spend $425 to $475 million and $135 to $185 million, respectively. However, the timing of spend could shift as we progress toward completion of the project. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 2,149 $ 1,676 $ 473 Investing activities (706 ) (728 ) 22 Financing activities 21 (236 ) 257 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash and cash equivalents (11 ) 17 (28 ) For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by operating activities increased by $473 million primarily due to an increase in benefits from working capital changes driven mostly from a change in deferred merchant bookings. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , $ 22 million less cash was used in investing activities primarily due to lower net purchases of investments of $112 million , partially offset by higher current year capital expenditures, including amounts related to our new corporate headquarters. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash provided by financing activities primarily included $91 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans, partially offset by cash dividend payments of $47 million and treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments of $25 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2018, cash used in financing activities primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $202 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorization discussed below, and a $46 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $20 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we repurchased, through open market transactions, 1.8 million shares under share authorizations for a total cost of $191 million , excluding transaction costs. We did not repurchase any shares through open market transactions during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . As of March 31, 2019 , there were approximately 12.2 million shares remaining under an April 2018 authorization. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchases. 44 Table of Contents During the first three months of 2019 and 2018 , the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid the following dividends: Declaration Date Dividend Per Share Record Date Total Amount (in millions) Payment Date Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 February 6, 2019 $ 0.32 March 7, 2019 $ 47 March 27, 2019 Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 February 7, 2018 0.30 March 8, 2018 46 March 28, 2018 In addition, in May 2019 , the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.32 per share of outstanding common stock payable on June 13, 2019 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 23, 2019 . Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2018 . Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2019 or December 31, 2018 . Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see Note 11 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 45 Table of Contents Part I.