Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on both TripAdvisor Media Network and on our transaction-based websites. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com TM , TripAdvisor Media Network , Expedia Affiliate Network, Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert TM , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia TM , eLong TM , and Venere Net SpA (Venere). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. In addition, beginning in September 2008, global economic and financial market conditions worsened markedly, creating uncertainty for travelers and suppliers. This macroeconomic downturn pressured discretionary spending on travel and advertising, with initial weakness in the United States and the United Kingdom markets increasing and spreading to all geographies. Although current macroeconomic trends have been generally stable to slightly improved, unemployment remains at historically high levels and 17 Table of Contents consumer spending remains pressured. As such, our near-term visibility remains limited. Most recently, disruptions to European travel patterns from the volcanic eruption in Iceland have added further pressure to travel industry demand. We have experienced an increase in cancelled flight and hotel bookings in the European region, as well as some reduction in new bookings levels as travelers wait for the uncertainty surrounding the travel environment to subside. Airline Sector The airline sector in particular has historically experienced significant turmoil. U.S. airlines responded to chronic overcapacity, financial losses and extreme volatility in oil prices by aggressively reducing their cost structures and seating capacities. Reduced seating capacities are generally negative for Expedia as there is less air supply available on our websites, and in turn less opportunity to facilitate hotel rooms, car rental and other services on behalf of air travelers. Most carriers aggressively reduced capacities in 2008 and 2009, and at this time, plans for re-visiting capacity expansion in 2010 appear to be relatively limited. Recently there has been increased speculation about additional carrier consolidation, which, if consummated, would likely put additional pressure on capacity and fares. In 2008, many carriers raised their per seat yields by increasing fares, assessing fuel surcharges and increasing the use of a la carte pricing for such items as baggage, food and beverage and preferred seating. To a large degree, the use of ancillary fees to supplement revenues has remained, and in some cases been expanded. However, as overall travel demand waned at the end of 2008 and into 2009, carriers began lowering ticket prices in order to attract more leisure travelers. Expedia generally benefits from a low fare environment, as low fares tend to encourage leisure travel, leave more of the travel budget available for hotel spend and because our air revenues are tied principally to ticket volumes, not prices. Hence, the 2009 fare environment was a favorable one for Expedia, as airfares on tickets sold by Expedia decreased 15% in 2009, contributing to 15% growth in air tickets sold. More recently, however, given the stabilization in the macro economy and aggressive capacity reductions, carriers have begun increasing fares. In the first quarter of 2010, airfares on Expedia sites were up 9%, and our current forecasts indicate we will likely see even further increases in the upcoming spring and summer travel seasons. In addition to capacity and pricing actions, carriers have responded to industry conditions by aggressively reducing costs in every aspect of their operations, including distribution costs. Prior to 2008, airlines lowered (and in some cases, eliminated) travel agent commissions and overrides, and increased direct distribution through their proprietary websites. Carriers also reduced payments to global distribution system (GDS) intermediaries, which have historically passed on a portion of these payments to large travel agents, including Expedia. In the spring of 2009, Expedia.com and other major online travel agencies began offering air tickets to consumers without an associated online booking fee, matching the airline supplier sites, which also do not charge online booking fees. Expedia broadened this fee elimination to many of its international websites, as well as removed most change/cancel fees in excess of those charged by travel suppliers. These fee actions, combined with the above reductions in distribution costs, have combined to reduce Expedias global revenue per ticket by over 30% in the past three years. As we pass the anniversary of these fee cuts in 2010, we expect less pressure on revenue per ticket with some offsetting impact on our air ticket volume growth. As a result of the above industry dynamics and the strength of our other product lines, in 2009 air revenue constituted just 12% of our global revenues. We may encounter additional pressure on air remuneration as certain supply agreements renew in 2010 and beyond, and as air carriers and GDSs re-negotiate their long-term agreements in 2011. In addition to the above challenges, larger carriers participating in the Expedia marketplace have generally reduced their share of total air seat capacity, while leading low-cost carriers such as Southwest in the United States have increased their relative capacities, but have generally chosen not to participate in the Expedia marketplace. This trend has negatively impacted our ability to obtain supply in our air business, and increased the relative attractiveness of other online and offline sales channels. Hotel Sector In 2008, the hotel sector witnessed supply growth and slowing demand, resulting in declining occupancy rates. Average Daily Rate (ADR) growth, which had been robust in 2006 and 2007, slowed considerably throughout 2008, and by the end of 2008 had stopped growing entirely. In 2009, we experienced a 15% decline in global ADRs due primarily to weak travel demand and continued supply expansion. In the first quarter of 2010, ADRs began to stabilize and for Expedia were flat on a year over year basis. 18 Table of Contents While lower occupancies have historically increased the availability of discounted hotel rooms, and a lower rate of ADR growth can positively impact underlying room night growth, lower ADRs also decrease our revenue per room night as our remuneration varies proportionally with the room price. Revenue per room night in 2009 declined 17% primarily due to the downward movement in ADRs as well as adverse movements in foreign exchange rates and lower fees. Revenue per room night was down 5% in the first quarter of 2010 due in part to various consumer fee reductions. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to PhoCusWright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2009 approximately 56% of U.S. leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online, compared with approximately 32% of European travel. Online penetration in the Asia Pacific region is estimated to lag behind that of Europe. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing. This significant growth has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition has intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services, and supplier growth outpaced online agency growth for several years. As a result, according to PhoCusWright, by 2009 travel supplier sites accounted for 61% of total online travel spend in the United States. More recently, due to booking fee reductions and eliminations, online agents appear to be regaining share of overall online travel spend. Our visibility on whether these share gains continue once we pass the anniversary of the fee actions in 2010 is limited. Differentiation among the various website offerings has narrowed dramatically in the past several years, and the travel landscape has grown extremely competitive, with the need for competitors to generally differentiate their offerings on features other than price. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies have in some cases been able to introduce differentiated features and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies; although in most cases they are not providing actual travel booking services. Some of these competitors have raised significant amounts of capital and have begun to aggressively market their service offerings. In early 2009, TripAdvisor.com launched a competitive metasearch travel offering featuring a Fee Estimator enabling customers to see the price of their flight including various airline fees such as baggage charges. In addition, in 2009 and early 2010 we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies such as Google and Microsofts Bing. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases places pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model has seen rapid adoption in Europe, and Expedia has only recently introduced a competitive offering. While agency hotel is an important component of our European strategy, we expect it will take time to gain traction with incremental hotel suppliers, and for Expedia to drive meaningful demand to those hotels. Intense competition has also historically led to aggressive marketing spend by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful reduction in our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. In 2009, we experienced a reversal of these trends due to several factors including the softer macro environment, lower ad rates and a pullback in spend by some of our online competitors impacted by lower fee revenues. Our marketing spend in the first quarter of 2010 has returned to a more normalized environment as the economy improves. We believe that over the long term we can manage the direct portion of our sales and marketing expense largely in line with revenue growth. Strategy We play a fundamental role in facilitating travel, whether for leisure, unmanaged business or managed business travelers. We are committed to providing travelers, travel suppliers and advertisers the world over with the best set of resources to serve their travel needs by leveraging Expedias critical assets our brand portfolio, our technology and commitment to continuous innovation, our global reach and our breadth of product offering. In addition, we intelligently utilize our growing base of knowledge about destinations, activities, suppliers and travelers and our central position in the travel value chain to more effectively merchandise our travel offerings. 19 Table of Contents A discussion of the critical assets that we leverage in achieving our business strategy follows: Portfolio of Travel Brands. We seek to appeal to the broadest possible range of travelers, suppliers and advertisers through our collection of industry-leading brands. We target several different demographics, from the value-conscious traveler through our Hotwire brand to luxury travelers seeking a high-touch, customized vacation package through our Classic Vacations brand. We believe our flagship Expedia brand appeals to the broadest range of travelers, with our extensive product offering ranging from single item bookings of discounted product to dynamic bundling of higher-end travel packages. Our Hotels.com site and its international versions target travelers with premium hotel content such as 360-degree tours and hotel reviews. In the United States, Hotels.com generally appeals to travelers with shorter booking windows who prefer to drive to their destinations, and who make a significant portion of their travel bookings over the telephone. Through Egencia, we make travel products and services available on a managed basis to corporate travelers in North America, Europe and the Asia Pacific region. Further, our TripAdvisor Media Network allows us to reach a broad range of travelers with travel opinions and user-generated content. We believe our appeal to suppliers and advertisers is further enhanced by our geographic breadth and range of business models, allowing them to offer their products and services to the industrys broadest range of travelers using our various agency, merchant and advertising business models. We intend to continue supporting and investing in our brand portfolio, geographic footprint and business models for the benefit of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers. Technology and Continuous Innovation. Expedia has an established tradition of technology innovation, from Expedia.coms inception as a division of Microsoft to our introduction of more recent innovations such as Expedias introduction of its Expedia Easy Manage program, offering smaller properties in secondary and tertiary markets in Europe and Asia Pacific through an agency model hotel program, Media Solutions introduction of rich media display ads called StorePoint Expandables, TripAdvisors launch of its new hotel Business Listings product and new mobile sites in 17 countries and 11 different languages, and Expedia.coms TripAssist, a free iPhone and iPod Touch application that links users to a mobile Expedia site and enables travelers to book flights and manage Expedia itineraries from their mobile device. We intend to continue innovating on behalf of our travelers, suppliers and advertisers with particular focus on improving the traveler experience, supplier integration and presentation, platform improvements, search engine marketing and search engine optimization. Global Reach. Our Expedia, Hotels.com and TripAdvisor Media Network brands operate both in the United States and internationally. We also offer Chinese travelers an array of products and services through our majority ownership in eLong and through our TripAdvisor brands daodao.com and kuxun.cn, and we offer hotel bookings to European-based travelers through our wholly-owned subsidiary Venere, which we acquired in the third quarter of 2008. During the first quarter of 2010, approximately 36% of our worldwide gross bookings and 35% of worldwide revenue were international. Egencia, our corporate travel business, currently operates in over 30 countries around the world both through dedicated points of sale as well as through the Egencia Global Alliance. We believe the corporate travel sector represents a large opportunity for Expedia, and we believe we offer a compelling technology solution to businesses seeking to optimize travel costs and improve their employees travel experiences. We intend to continue investing in and expanding the geographic footprint and technology infrastructure of Egencia. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. We intend to continue leveraging this investment when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services, and offering proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. As an example, our traveler review feature whereby our travelers have created millions of qualified reviews of hotel properties is able to accumulate a larger base of reviews due to the higher base of online traffic that frequents our various websites. In addition, our increasing scale enhances our websites appeal to travel and non-travel advertisers. 20 Table of Contents We intend to continue investing in and growing our international points of sale. We anticipate launching points of sale in additional countries where we find large travel markets and rapid growth of online commerce. Future launches may occur under any of our brands, or through acquisition of third party brands, as in the case of eLong, Venere and Egencia. Breadth of Product Offering. We offer a comprehensive array of innovative travel products and services to our travelers. We plan to continue improving and growing these offerings, as well as expand them to our worldwide points of sale over time. Travelers can interact with us how and when they prefer, including via our 24/7 1-800 telesales service, which is an integral part of the Companys appeal to travelers. In the first quarter of 2010, nearly 60% of our revenue came from transactions involving the booking of hotel reservations, with less than 15% of our worldwide revenue derived from the sale of airline tickets. We facilitate travel products and services either as stand-alone products or as part of package transactions. We have emphasized growing our merchant hotel and packages businesses as these result in higher revenue per transaction; however, we are also working to grow our global agency hotel business in Europe, given the success of the agency model with both suppliers and travelers in that region. We also seek to continue diversifying our revenue mix beyond core air and hotel products to car rental, destination services, cruise and other product offerings. We have been working toward and will continue to work toward increasing the mix of advertising and media revenue from both the expansion of our TripAdvisor Media Network, as well as increasing advertising revenue from our worldwide websites such as Expedia.com and Hotels.com, which have historically been focused on transaction revenue. During the first quarter of 2010, advertising and media revenue accounted for approximately 14% of worldwide revenue. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue in our merchant business is generally recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. As a result, revenue is typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix may influence the typical trend of our seasonality in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009. 21 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Occupancy Taxes We are currently involved in 48 lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recently, there have been several significant court developments including: (1) the California Superior Court in the lawsuit brought by the city of Anaheim ruled that the online travel companies are not subject to Anaheims hotel occupancy tax ordinance, which reversed the decision of the administrative hearing officer who had issued a decision that the online travel companies were liable to pay local hotel occupancy taxes. On April 7, 2010, the court denied the citys motion for reconsideration of that decision. Also on April 7, 2010, the court allowed the city to assert additional claims based on a theory that even if the online travel companies are not subject to Anaheims hotel occupancy tax ordinance, the online travel companies are still required to collect and remit taxes to the city; (2) the United States District Court for the District of New Mexico denied the plaintiffs motion for summary judgment in the statewide class action brought by the city of Gallup, New Mexico and found that the online travel companies are not trustees of unpaid taxes and reiterated that the online travel companies are not vendors responsible to collect and remit hotel occupancy taxes under the relevant ordinances; (3) a state court judge in Texas granted summary judgment in favor of the online travel companies and dismissed with prejudice the claims brought by the city of Houston; (4) a circuit court judge in Kentucky granted a motion to dismiss the case brought by the city of Bowling Green, concluding that the online travel companies are not subject to the local occupancy tax ordinance; and (5) the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida entered an order certifying a class composed of all counties within the State of Florida that have enacted a tourist development tax and provided that potential class members have until May 24, 2010 to opt out of the class. For additional information on recent developments, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $21 million at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. A variety of factors could affect the ultimate amount we pay, if any, in connection with any of the occupancy tax-related matters, which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement or changes in relevant statutes. In addition, certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that the taxpayer believes it is subject to such taxes. During 2009, we expensed $48 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in occupancy tax proceedings in the city of San Francisco. We do not believe that the amounts we retain as compensation are subject to the citys hotel occupancy tax ordinance. If we prevail in the litigation, the city will be required to repay these amounts, plus interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. 22 Table of Contents Segments We have three reportable segments: Leisure, TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia. We determined our segments based on how our chief operating decision makers manage our business, make operating decisions and evaluate operating performance. Our Leisure segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Venere, eLong and Classic Vacations. Our TripAdvisor Media Network segment provides advertising services to travel suppliers on its websites, which aggregate traveler opinions and unbiased travel articles about cities, hotels, restaurants and activities in a variety of destinations through tripadvisor.com and its localized international versions as well as through its various travel media content properties within TripAdvisor Media Network. Our Egencia segment provides managed travel services to corporate customers in North America, Europe, and the Asia Pacific region. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for an understanding and evaluation of Expedias Leisure and Egencia segments. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Leisure $ 6,161 $ 4,904 26 % TripAdvisor Media Network (1) N/A Egencia 471 321 47 % Total gross bookings $ 6,632 $ 5,225 27 % Revenue Margin Leisure 9.9 % 11.4 % TripAdvisor Media Network (1) N/A N/A Egencia 7.2 % 7.8 % Total revenue margin (1) 10.8 % 12.2 % (1) TripAdvisor Media Network, which is comprised of media businesses that differ from our transaction-based websites and our Egencia business, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from the TripAdvisor Media Network is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, was primarily due to an 18% increase in transactions and a 9% increase in average airfares. 23 Table of Contents The decrease in revenue margin for the three months ended March 31, 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, was primarily due to lower consumer fees and a higher mix of air bookings, which have a lower revenue margin than our other products and services. Results of Operations Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Leisure $ 613 $ 559 10 % TripAdvisor Media Network (Third-party revenue) 71 52 39 % Egencia 34 25 35 % Total revenue $ 718 $ 636 13 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in worldwide hotel revenue within our Leisure segment as well as an increase in advertising and media revenue within our TripAdvisor Media Network and Leisure segments. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 12% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2010. The increase was primarily due to an 18% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages, partially offset by a 5% decline in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased due in part to lower hotel services fees for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009. Worldwide air revenue increased 6% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to a 22% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 13% decrease in revenue per air ticket due largely to our elimination of booking fees on Expedia.com beginning in March 2009. The remaining worldwide revenue other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, agency cruise, increased by 18% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in our advertising and media revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 451 $ 409 10 % Agency 169 154 9 % Advertising and media (1) 98 73 34 % Total revenue $ 718 $ 636 13 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from TripAdvisor Media Network as well as our Leisure transaction-based websites. Merchant revenue increased for the first quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue primarily driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the first quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to an increase in air revenue and car revenue. Advertising and media revenue increased during the first quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to a 39% increase in advertising revenue at TripAdvisor Media Network as well as a 24% increase at our Leisure transaction-based websites. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 78 $ 68 15 % Credit card processing 45 40 12 % Data center and other 35 36 (1 )% Total cost of revenue $ 158 $ 144 10 % % of revenue 22.0 % 22.6 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, charge backs and fraud, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, certain promotions, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2010, the primary drivers of the increase in cost of revenue expense were higher costs related to credit card processing, telesales and customer service to support the growth in our transaction volumes. We expect cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010. Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 202 $ 169 20 % Indirect costs 79 67 17 % Total selling and marketing $ 281 $ 236 19 % % of revenue 39.1 % 37.1 % Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our Partner Services Group (PSG), TripAdvisor Media Network and Egencia and stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $45 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, due to increases in both our offline and online spending to support our transaction-based businesses, as well as higher personnel costs primarily related to our PSG staff and our global advertising and media businesses. The growth in our overall direct marketing spend in the three months ended March 31, 2010 was impacted by a relatively improved outlook for travel demand compared with the prior year period, representing a more typical seasonal increase in spending ahead of the busy spring and summer travel seasons. We expect selling and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010 in part due to approximately $20 million in relocation and other costs related to the opening of a new global headquarters for our lodging supply group. 25 Table of Contents Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 47 $ 41 15 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 17 16 5 % Other 23 21 10 % Total technology and content $ 87 $ 78 12 % % of revenue 12.1 % 12.2 % Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. The increase of $9 million in technology and content expense during the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support our worldwide transaction-based businesses , as well as our TripAdvisor Media Network businesses. We expect technology and content expense to increase in absolute dollars for full year 2010. General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 40 $ 37 10 % Professional fees 14 17 (14 )% Other 17 14 11 % Total general and administrative $ 71 $ 68 5 % % of revenue 9.9 % 10.7 % General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. The $3 million increase in general and administrative expense during the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, was due primarily to modestly higher personnel expenses in part from acquired companies, and recruiting and other expenses. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars but decrease as a percentage of revenue for full year 2010. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 9 $ 9 (0 )% % of revenue 1.3 % 1.4 % 26 Table of Contents Restructuring Charges During the first quarter of 2009, in conjunction with the reorganization of our business around our global brands, we recognized $9 million in restructuring charges. No such charges were recognized during the first quarter of 2010. For additional information, see Note 7 Restructuring Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Income Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Operating income $ 112 $ 93 21 % % of revenue 15.6 % 14.6 % Operating income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to an increase in revenue as well as a lower rate of growth in cost of sales and general and administrative expenses than growth in revenue and the absence of restructuring charges in the current year, partially offset by a growth in sales and marketing expense in excess of revenue. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 1 $ 3 (78 )% Interest expense (21 ) (22 ) (2 )% Interest income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 20010, compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to lower average interest rates. Other, Net Other, net changed from an expense of $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2009 to income of $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010 primarily due to net foreign exchange rate gains during the period versus losses in the prior year period. Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (32 ) $ (27 ) 16 % Effective tax rate 34.2 % 40.7 % We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective rate. We record any changes to the estimated annual rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. The decrease in the effective rate for the three months ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the same period in 2009 was primarily due to an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, lower accruals related to uncertain tax positions and, to a lesser extent, lower state income taxes. Our effective tax rate was 34.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, which is lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, partially offset by state income 27 Table of Contents taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. Our effective tax rate was 40.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2009, which is higher than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to state income taxes and accruals related to uncertain tax positions. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.0 billion and $688 million at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, including $147 million and $148 million of cash and short-term investment balances of majority-owned subsidiaries; and our revolving credit facility. In February 2010, we entered into a new $750 million, three-year revolving credit facility, replacing our prior credit facility. Pricing is based on the Companys credit ratings, with drawn amounts bearing interest at LIBOR plus 300 basis points, and undrawn amounts bearing interest at 50 basis points. We incurred approximately $8 million in fees associated with the new facility, which will be amortized over its life of three years. As of March 31, 2010, $720 million was available under the facility representing the total $750 million facility less $30 million of outstanding stand-by letters of credit. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. In October 2009, our long-term ratings from Moodys and Standard and Poors were raised to Ba1 and BBB-, respectively. Both agencies maintain a stable ratings outlook. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial policy or financial position could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we pay after the travelers use and subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our suppliers, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital will positively impact operating cash flows. If this business model declines relative to our other businesses, or if there are changes to the model or booking patterns which compress the time of receipts of cash from travelers to payment to suppliers, our working capital benefits could be reduced. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates or changes to the hotel business model or booking patterns as discussed above may affect working capital, which might counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2010, we had a deficit in our working capital of $731 million, compared to a deficit of $610 million as of December 31, 2009 primarily due to financing activities including stock repurchases and dividend payments. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements to infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidations and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions, share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. 28 Table of Contents Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2010 2009 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 620 $ 502 $ 118 Investing activities (49 ) (19 ) (29 ) Financing activities (201 ) (668 ) 468 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (15 ) (4 ) (11 ) For the three months ended March 31, 2010, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $118 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes, including a $32 million decrease in income tax payments, as well as growth in operating income after adjusting for the impacts of depreciation and amortization. We used $29 million more in cash for investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010 compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increased use of cash of $28 million related to net purchases of investments. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2010 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $198 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2006 authorization discussed below, as well as a $20 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $26 million of proceeds from the exercise of equity awards. Cash used in financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2009 primarily included the repayment of $650 million of borrowings under the prior credit facility. In 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchase. During the first quarter of 2010, we repurchased 8.4 million shares under this authorization for a total cost of $188 million, representing an average repurchase price of $22.46 per share. As of March 31, 2010, 11.6 million shares remain authorized for repurchase. No additional repurchases have been made under this authorization as of April 29, 2010. In the first quarter of 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 11, 2010. In addition, on April 27, 2010, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 27, 2010. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency for the three months ended March 31, 2010 showed a net decrease of $11 million reflecting intra-quarter depreciation in currencies and a higher foreign-denominated cash balances in the current year period. We also have a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC under which Expedia, Inc. may offer from time to time debt securities, guarantees of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock or warrants. The shelf registration statement expires on October 15, 2010. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December 31, 2009. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009. 29 Table of Contents Part I.