Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Year Ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Revenue $ 8,773,564 $ 6,672,317 $ 5,763,485 $ 4,771,259 $ 4,030,347 Operating income 461,702 413,566 517,764 366,060 431,724 Net income from continuing operations (1) 261,285 722,748 372,950 216,358 302,979 Discontinued operations, net of taxes (2) (22,539 ) Net income attributable to Expedia, Inc. (1) 281,848 764,465 398,097 232,850 280,171 Earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 1.87 $ 5.87 $ 3.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.26 Diluted 1.82 5.70 2.99 1.67 2.16 Earnings per share attributable to Expedia, Inc. available to common stockholders: Basic $ 1.87 $ 5.87 $ 3.09 $ 1.73 $ 2.09 Diluted 1.82 5.70 2.99 1.67 2.00 Shares used in computing earnings per share: Basic 150,367 130,159 128,912 134,912 134,203 Diluted 154,517 134,018 133,168 139,593 139,929 Dividends declared per common share $ 1.00 $ 0.84 $ 0.66 $ 0.56 $ 0.96 December 31, 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Working deficit $ (2,676,947 ) $ (2,949,756 ) $ (1,263,283 ) $ (1,075,817 ) $ (368,967 ) Total assets 15,777,546 15,485,675 9,012,299 7,734,689 7,126,796 Long-term debt 3,159,336 3,183,140 1,738,548 1,244,620 1,243,395 Non-redeemable non-controlling interest (3) 1,560,802 65,373 109,462 113,521 109,129 Total stockholders equity 5,693,103 4,929,767 1,893,729 2,258,985 2,389,388 ___________________________________ (1) On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong, Inc. We recognized an after tax gain of $395 million (or $509 million pre-tax gain) during 2015. (2) On December 20, 2011, we completed the spin-off of TripAdvisor. Immediately prior to the spin-off, we effected a one-for-two reverse stock split. In order to complete the spin-off, we were required to redeem the $400 million principal of our 8.5% senior notes due 2016, which were legally extinguished in the first quarter of 2012. Accordingly, the related debt extinguishment losses was presented in discontinued operations for 2012. (3) On December 16, 2016, our majority-owned subsidiary, trivago, completed its IPO. In conjunction with the IPO, Expedia and trivago's founders entered into an Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement under which the original put/call rights were no longer effective and, as such, we reclassified the redeemable non-controlling interest into non-redeemable non-controlling interest on the consolidated balance sheet. See NOTE 12 Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. 38 Table of Contents Part II. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines, vacation rental property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our transaction-based websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption Management Overview. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2015 and 2016 represented years of continuing improvement for the travel industry. However, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues and macroeconomic concerns are examples of events that contribute to a somewhat uncertain environment, which could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2016, over 50% of U.S. and European leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occurred online. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe, and are estimated to be in the range of 30% to 40%. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (owned by The Priceline Group), trivago (in which Expedia owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools, the impact of which is currently uncertain. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Players such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which Expedia acquired in December 2015) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is estimated to account for approximately $100 billion of annual travel spend and expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Furthermore, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations including direct booking functionality, as well as licensing deals and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google. Finally, traditional consumer e-commerce and group buying websites have been expanding their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their sites. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve, including through the continued expansion of our ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. Intense competition also historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is less favorable than that for our consolidated business, but for which we still believe the opportunity 39 Table of Contents to be attractive. The crowded online travel environment is now driving certain secondary and tertiary online travel companies to establish marketing agreements with global players in order to leverage distribution and technology capabilities while focusing resources on capturing consumer mind share. In May 2015, Expedia sold its 62.4% equity stake in eLong for approximately $671 million to several purchasers including Ctrip.com International, Ltd (Ctrip). Expedia and Ctrip also reached agreement on cooperation for certain travel products in specified geographic markets. The transaction closed on May 22, 2015. Unless otherwise noted, all discussion in the Trends and Growth Strategy sections refers to results for Expedia, Inc. excluding eLong. Hotel We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). Although our relationships with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years, as part of the global rollout of ETP, we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, which has negatively impacted the margin of revenue we earn per booking. In addition, as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced and expect to continue to reduce our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night. Lastly, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had a negative effect on unit economics due to unfavorable book-to-stay as well as translation impacts. Based on these dynamics, our average revenue per room night declined in each quarter of 2014, 2015, and 2016 and we expect it to remain under pressure in the future. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry have generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, U.S. dollar-denominated ADRs declined in 2016 due to the currency translation impact. Current occupancy rates remain at record highs; however, U.S. hotel supply growth has been accelerating, which may put additional pressure on ADRs. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. Companies like Airbnb have also added incremental global supply in the alternative accommodations space. In addition, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with over 350,000 properties on our global websites as of December 31, 2016, including certain HomeAway vacation rental properties now available on other Expedia, Inc. sites. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights excluding eLong growing 24% in 2014, 36% in 2015, and 21% in 2016. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites excluding eLong increased 3% in 2014, declined 5% in 2015, and declined 1% in 2016. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2016, hotel accounted for 61%. HomeAway With our acquisition of HomeAway and all of its brands in December 2015, we have expanded into the fast growing $100 billion alternative accommodations market. HomeAway is a leader in this market and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia. HomeAway has been undergoing a transition from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. In addition, HomeAway rolled out a traveler service fee in the United States and Europe during the first half of 2016, consistent with market practice. The fee is expected to continue to contribute to HomeAways revenue growth and help fund marketing investment, programs to better protect travelers and future growth initiatives. Furthermore, HomeAway moved to a single subscription option globally in July 2016. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2016, HomeAway accounted for 8%. Air Significant airline sector consolidation in the United States in recent years has generally resulted in lower overall capacity and higher fares, which combined with the significant declines in fuel prices led to record levels of profitability for the U.S. air carriers, further strengthening their position. However, in 2015 and 2016, there has been evidence of discounting by the U.S. carriers while currency headwinds and weaker macroeconomic trends put pressure on international results. Ticket prices on Expedia sites excluding eLong declined 11% in 2015 and 6% in 2016 as short-haul traffic and low cost carriers grew alongside 40 Table of Contents increasingly competitive airline pricing. We continue to encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine and as certain supply agreements renew. Air ticket volumes excluding eLong increased 35% in 2015 and 32% in 2016 primarily due to the acquisition of Orbitz. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2016, air accounted for 9%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch site, in addition to Expedia Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In 2016, we generated a total of $807 million of advertising and media revenue representing 9% of our total worldwide revenue, up from $564 million (excluding eLong) in 2015. Growth Strategy Product Innovation. Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. Each Expedia technology platform is operated by a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and help customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched new global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates for those brands. In 2013, Expedia signed an agreement to power the technology, supply and customer service platforms for Travelocity-branded sites in the United States and Canada, enabling Expedia to leverage its investments in each of these key areas. The shift of Travelocity-branded sites to the Expedia technology platform was successfully completed over the course of 2014. In November 2014, Expedia completed the acquisition of Wotif Group and subsequently converted the Wotif.com site to the Expedia platform. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. The strategic marketing and other related agreements previously entered into were terminated. In September 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, including all of its brands. The migration of the Orbitz.com, CheapTickets.com and ebookers sites to the Expedia technology platform was completed in the first half of 2016, and Orbitz for Business customers were migrated to the Egencia technology platform as of July 2016. In December 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of HomeAway, Inc., including all of its brands. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. In addition, while we aim to drive the top-line growth in our global brands, we are managing our regional brands, such as Travelocity, Orbitz.com, Wotif.com, ebookers and CheapTickets.com, with a greater focus on profitability. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, and EAN brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. In addition, ebookers offers multi-product online travel reservations in Europe and Wotif Group includes a leading portfolio of travel brands, including Wotif.com, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au, lastminute.com.nz and travel.com.au. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in over 65 countries around the world and continues to expand. The HomeAway portfolio has over 50 vacation rental sites all around the world. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading hotel metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe and North America. trivago continues to operate independently and rapidly grow revenue through global expansion, including aggressive expansion in new countries. In December 2016, trivago successfully completed its IPO and trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "TRVG." In addition, we have commercial agreements in place with Ctrip and eLong in China, as well as Decolar.com, Inc. in Latin America. In the 2016 , approximately 36% of our worldwide gross bookings and 43% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 21% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating more than two-thirds of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States. In July 2014, we completed the acquisition of Auto Escape Group, one of Europes leading online car rental reservation companies. Auto Escape Group has joined with the CarRentals.com brand, allowing it to expand internationally to provide our customers more choices across the globe and help our supply partners expand their marketing reach. In November 2014, we completed the acquisition of Wotif Group, an Australian online travel company. Wotif Group adds to our collection of travels most trusted brands and enhances our supply in the Asia-Pacific region, while allowing Expedia to expose the Wotif Group to our world-class technology and its customers to our extensive global supply. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. As a result of the acquisition, the strategic marketing agreement previously entered into during 2013, which joined Travelocitys strong brand with our best-in-class booking platform, supply base and customer service, was terminated. Evolving this relationship strengthens Expedia, Inc.s ability to continue to innovate and deliver the best travel experiences to the widest set of travelers, all over the world. 41 Table of Contents In March 2015, we completed the acquisition of an additional 25% equity interest of AAE Travel Pte. Ltd., the joint venture formed between Expedia and AirAsia Berhad in 2011. This investment increases our total ownership in the venture to 75% and we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. Following the close of the transaction in March 2015, the financial results of the AirAsia Expedia venture are included in Expedias consolidated financial statements. In March 2015, Expedia and Decolar.com, Inc., the Latin American online travel company that operates the Decolar.com and Despegar.com branded websites, announced that the two companies have expanded their partnership to include deeper cooperation on hotel supply and a minority equity investment by Expedia. Building on the commercial relationship the two companies have had since 2002, the expanded agreement broadens Expedias powering of Decolars hotel supply and introduces the opportunity for Decolar to provide Expedia access to its hotel supply in Latin America. The customers of both companies will benefit from the broad, shared selection of hotels, and hotel partners will gain increased access to travelers in Latin America and around the world. In September 2015, we completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, a leading global portfolio of travel brands and business-to-business offerings. The addition of Orbitz Worldwide brings Expedia an attractive set of well-recognized brands built by a talented team that is passionate about travel. In December 2015, we completed the acquisition of HomeAway, which operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, with sites representing over one million online bookable listings of vacation rental homes in over 190 countries. With Expedias expertise in powering global transactional platforms and our industry-leading technology capabilities, we are partnering with our HomeAway brand to accelerate their shift from a classified marketplace to an online, transactional model to create even better experiences for HomeAways global traveler audience and the owners and managers of its properties around the world. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements in conversion. New Channel Penetration . Technological innovations and developments continue to create new opportunities for travel bookings made through mobile devices, in addition to more traditional methods like desktop and laptop computers. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends, and some of our brands now see more traffic via mobile devices than via traditional desktops. Mobile bookings via smartphones continue to present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed within one or two days of the travel or stay, which is a much shorter booking window than we had historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. In addition, we are seeing increasing cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe mobile represents an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During the year ended December 31, 2016 , nearly one in three Expedia, Inc. transactions were booked globally on a mobile device. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel products, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, are experienced in the second half of the year as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we aggressively market during the busy booking period for spring, summer and winter holiday travel. Additionally, trivago has historically earned a substantial portion of its operating profits in the fourth quarter. As a result on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, including the assimilation and growth of HomeAway, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. We expect that as 42 Table of Contents HomeAway continues its shift to more of a transaction-based business model for vacation rental listings its seasonal trends will generally trend similar to our other traditional leisure businesses over time. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies , in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally recognize those amounts as revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience and contract terms. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Loyalty Program Accruals We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our Hotels.com Rewards program, our Brand Expedia Expedia+ rewards program and our Orbitz rewards program. Hotels.com Rewards offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. Expedia+ rewards enables participating travelers to earn points on all hotel, flight, package and activities made on over 30 Brand Expedia websites. Orbitz Rewards allows travelers to earn Orbucks SM , the currency of Orbitz Rewards, on flights, hotels and vacation packages and instantly redeem those Orbucks on future bookings at various hotels worldwide. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we record a liability for the estimated future cost of redemptions. The cost of these loyalty points is recorded as a reduction to revenue in our consolidated financial statements. We determine the future redemption obligation based on judgment factors including: (i) the estimated cost of travel products to be redeemed, and (ii) an estimated redemption rate based on the overall accumulation and usage of points towards free travel products, which is determined through current and historical trends as well as statistical modeling techniques. The actual future cost and rate of redemptions could differ materially from our estimates. Business Combinations We assign the value of the consideration transferred to acquire a business to the tangible assets and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired is allocated to goodwill. When determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from customer relationships and trade names, and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. 43 Table of Contents Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill . We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we typically first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. If so, we perform a quantitative assessment and compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the goodwill of that reporting unit is potentially impaired and we proceed to step two of the impairment analysis. In step two of the analysis, we will record an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill over its implied fair value should such a circumstance arise. Periodically, we may choose to forgo the initial qualitative assessment and perform quantitative analysis to assist in our annual evaluation. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Companys total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets . We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in the period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We 44 Table of Contents determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates. We record liabilities to address uncertain tax positions we have taken in previously filed tax returns or that we expect to take in a future tax return. The determination for required liabilities is based upon an analysis of each individual tax position, taking into consideration whether it is more likely than not that our tax position, based on technical merits, will be sustained upon examination. For those positions for which we conclude it is more likely than not it will be sustained, we recognize the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the taxing authority. The difference between the amount recognized and the total tax position is recorded as a liability. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies . We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy Tax . Some states and localities impose a transient occupancy or accommodation tax on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the occupancy tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In all but a limited number of jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit occupancy taxes, nor do we pay occupancy taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such occupancy taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve this issue. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit occupancy tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy and other transactional tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 7,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose hotel occupancy taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and eCommerce. Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of occupancy taxes on businesses that arrange the booking of hotel accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in occupancy tax related litigation, which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Recent occupancy tax developments are also discussed below under the caption Occupancy and Other Taxes. 45 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation Our primary form of employee stock-based compensation is stock option awards. We measure the value of stock option awards on the date of grant at fair value using the appropriate valuation techniques, including the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo option-pricing models. We amortize the fair value over the remaining term on a straight-line basis. We account for forfeitures as they occur. The pricing models require various highly judgmental assumptions including volatility and expected option term. If any of the assumptions used in the models change significantly, stock-based compensation expense may differ materially in the future from that recorded in the current period. In addition, we classify certain employee option awards as liabilities when we deem it not probable that the employees holding the awards will bear the risk and rewards of stock ownership for a reasonable period of time. Such options are revalued at the end of each reporting period and upon settlement our total compensation expense recorded from grant date to settlement date will equal the settlement amount. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see NOTE 2 Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in twenty lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: City of San Diego, California Litigation. On December 12, 2016, the California Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals decision, concluding that the defendant online travel companies do not operate hotels, and therefore they are not liable for hotel taxes. As a result of this decision, the California Court of Appeals has lifted the stays for the City of Los Angeles Litigation and City of San Diego Litigation and these cases will proceed in light of this decision. While not part of the courts reasoning for its decision, the court commented that under the San Diego ordinance hotel taxes would be due on amounts that hotels require online travel companies to charge consumers under specific contractual rate parity clauses. Nassau County, New York Litigation. On December 2, 2016, the court granted the defendant online travel companies motion for summary judgment and rejected Nassau Countys attempt to tax the amounts the defendants charge for their services. State of Kentucky Litigation. The parties reached a settlement and, on January 31, 2017, the court entered an order dismissing the case. State of Indiana Litigation . On December 20, 2016, the Indiana Tax Court held that tax assessments against Orbitz were issued in error as a matter of law. Minnesota Cities Litigation. The parties reached a settlement and, on January 11, 2017, the court dismissed the appeals filed by certain Expedia companies, thereby ending the case. State of Maine Litigation. The parties have reached a settlement in principle. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $71 million as of December 31, 2016 and $43 million as of December 31, 2015. Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, and Maryland, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including to the states of New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, and Maryland, the District of Columbia and the city of New York, as well as certain other county and local jurisdictions. 46 Table of Contents Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments prior to contesting any such assessments. This requirement is commonly referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. Hawaii (General Excise Tax). During 2013, the Expedia companies were required to pay-to-play and paid a total of $171 million in advance of litigation relating to general excise taxes for merchant model hotel reservations in the State of Hawaii. In September 2015, following a ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court, the State of Hawaii refunded the Expedia companies $132 million of the original pay-to-play amount. As we had previously expensed the pay-to-play payments in prior periods, we recognized a gain in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other during the third quarter of 2015 related to this matter. Orbitz also received a similar refund of $22 million from the State of Hawaii in September 2015. The amount paid, net of refunds, by the Expedia companies and Orbitz to the State of Hawaii in satisfaction of past general excise taxes on their services for merchant model hotel reservations was $44 million. The parties reached a settlement relating to Orbitz merchant model hotel tax liabilities, and on October 5, 2016, the Expedia companies paid the State of Hawaii for the tax years 2012 through 2015. The Expedia companies and Orbitz have now resolved all assessments by the State of Hawaii for merchant model hotel taxes through 2015. The Department of Taxation also issued final assessments for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies, including Orbitz, dated December 23, 2015 for the time period 2000 to 2014 for hotel and car rental revenue for agency model transactions. Those assessments are currently under review in the Hawaii tax courts. Final assessments by the Hawaii Department of Taxation for general exercise taxes against the Expedia companies, including Orbitz, relating to merchant car rental transactions during the years 2000 to 2014 are also under review in the Hawaii tax courts. With respect to merchant model car rental transactions at issue for the tax years 2000 through 2013, the Hawaii tax court held on August 5, 2016 that general excise tax is due on the online travel companies services to facilitate car rentals. The court further ruled that for merchant model car rentals in Hawaii, the online travel companies are required to pay general excise tax on the total amount paid by consumers, with no credit for tax amounts already remitted by car rental companies to the State of Hawaii for tax years 2000 through 2013, thus resulting in a double tax on the amount paid by consumers to car rental companies for the rental of the vehicle. The court, however, ruled that when car rentals are paid for as part of a vacation package, tax is only due once on the amount paid by consumers to the car rental company for the rental of the vehicle. In addition, the court ruled that the online travel companies are required to pay interest and certain penalties on the amounts due. The Expedia companies intend to appeal, and will be expected to pay under protest the full amount claimed due, or approximately $16.5 million, as a condition of appeal. The Hawaii tax courts decision did not resolve merchant model car rental transactions for the tax year 2014, which also remain under review. San Francisco. During 2009, we were required to pay-to-play and paid $48 million in advance of litigation relating to occupancy tax proceedings with the city of San Francisco. The city of San Francisco subsequently issued additional assessments of tax, penalties and interest for the time period from the fourth quarter of 2007 through the fourth quarter of 2011 against the online travel companies, including against certain Expedia companies. The additional assessments, including the prepayment of such assessments, were contested by the Expedia companies on the basis that the court has already ruled that taxes are not due from the online travel companies and that binding precedent by the California Court of Appeals precludes the citys claim for taxes. On May 14, 2014, the court heard oral argument on the Expedia companies contest of the prepayment requirement for the additional assessments and held that the Expedia companies were required to prepay in order to litigate the legality of the assessments. On May 26, 2014, the Expedia companies paid $25.5 million under protest in order to contest the additional assessments. The additional assessments were expensed during the second quarter of 2014. In addition, Orbitz in total has paid $4.6 million to the city of San Francisco in prepayment of taxes to contest these assessments issued against it by the city. On August 6, 2014, the California Court of Appeals stayed this case pending review and decision by the California Supreme Court of the City of San Diego, California Litigation. The stay is now lifted and the appeal will proceed in light of the California Supreme Courts decision in the San Diego litigation. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with domestic and foreign tax authorities, some of which, including in the United Kingdom regarding the application of value added tax (VAT) to our European Union related transactions, impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. 47 Table of Contents Segments We have four reportable segments: Core OTA, trivago, Egencia and HomeAway upon its acquisition on December 15, 2015. In addition, eLong was a reportable segment through its disposal on May 22, 2015. Our Core OTA segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Orbitz.com, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Travelocity, Wotif Group, CarRentals.com, and Classic Vacations. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Our Egencia segment, which also includes Orbitz for Business, provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide. Our HomeAway segment operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Core OTA $ 66,063 $ 54,252 $ 42,869 22 % 27 % trivago (1) N/A N/A Egencia 6,368 5,427 5,149 17 % 5 % HomeAway (2) N/A N/A eLong (3) 1,151 2,429 N/A N/A Total gross bookings $ 72,431 $ 60,830 $ 50,447 19 % 21 % Revenue Margin Core OTA 10.7 % 10.8 % 11.4 % trivago (1) N/A N/A N/A Egencia 7.3 % 7.4 % 7.8 % HomeAway (2) N/A N/A N/A eLong (3) N/A 3.6 % 7.3 % Total revenue margin 12.1 % 11.0 % 11.4 % ___________________________________ (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. (2) Gross bookings from HomeAway, our online marketplace for the vacation rental industry acquired in December 2015, are also currently excluded from the above total gross bookings. Revenue from HomeAway is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. We have been in the process of determining comparable on-platform gross bookings and plan to begin disclosing this metric along with the historical comparable information in the first quarter of 2017. (3) Includes results for eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2016 as compared to 2015 was primarily driven by the inorganic impact from acquisitions of 13% and growth in the Core OTA segment, including growth at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com, as well as in Egencia. The increase in worldwide gross bookings in 2015 as compared to 2014 was primarily driven by growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com. Acquisitions added approximately 10% of inorganic gross bookings growth for 2015 , excluding Travelocity due to the previously implemented commercial agreement. Revenue margin increased in 2016 as compared to 2015 primarily due to the inclusion of HomeAway revenue without the additional gross bookings as well as the f avorable impact of lower air ticket prices and a mix shift to higher margin products, 48 Table of Contents including advertising and media revenue. These impacts were partially offset by the inclusion of a higher share of lower margin air gross bookings with the acquisition of Orbitz and lower revenue per room night. Revenue margin decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower revenue per room night. These impacts were partially offset by a favorable impact of lower air ticket prices and a mix shift to higher margin products, including advertising and media revenue. Results of Operations On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong. The below discussion of the results of operations for 2015 include results for eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. Operating expense tables below present total expenses including eLong for the prior year periods as well as eLong specific amounts included within the consolidated total. On September 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Orbitz. Orbitz was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and we recognized $196 million in revenue and $163 million in operating losses, including restructuring charges of $92 million as well as fees related to the acquisition, from the acquisition date to December 31, 2015. On December 15, 2015, we completed our acquisition of HomeAway. HomeAway was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and we recognized $20 million in revenue and $14 million in operating loss, including fees related to the acquisition, from the acquisition date to December 31, 2015. Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Core OTA $ 7,084 $ 5,877 $ 4,904 21 % 20 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 539 333 281 62 % 19 % Egencia 462 400 400 16 % 0 % HomeAway 689 20 N/A N/A eLong 42 178 N/A N/A Total revenue $ 8,774 $ 6,672 $ 5,763 31 % 16 % In 2016 , revenue increased primarily driven by 19% of inorganic impact from acquisitions, growth in the Core OTA segment, including growth at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com, as well as growth at trivago. In 2015 , revenue increased primarily due to growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and EAN as well as growth at trivago, partially offset by a decrease in revenue due to the sale of eLong. Acquisitions added approximately 8% to the year-over-year growth rate in total revenue for 2015. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 15% (16% excluding eLong) in 2016 primarily due to a 12% (21% excluding eLong) increase in room nights stayed driven by the inorganic impact of acquisitions as well as organic growth in Hotels.com, Brand Expedia and EAN, and a 3% increase (4% decrease excluding eLong) in revenue per room night in 2016 . Absent eLong, revenue per room night decreased primarily due to margin reductions aimed at expanding the size and availability of our global hotel supply portfolio, unfavorable foreign exchange translation impacts as well as increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs. Absent impacts due to the sale of eLong, ADRs decreased by 1% primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. Acquisitions added approximately 7% of inorganic hotel revenue growth in 2016 and 6% of room night growth. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 14% (17% excluding eLong) in 2015 primarily due to a 19% (36% excluding eLong) increase in room nights stayed driven by the inorganic impact of acquisitions as well as the healthy growth in Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, partially offset by a 4% decrease (14% excluding eLong) in revenue per room night in 2015 . Absent eLong, revenue per room night decreased primarily due to strategic margin reductions aimed at expanding the size and availability of our global hotel supply portfolio, an unfavorable foreign exchange impact, both in translation and in book-to-stay, as well as increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs. Absent impacts due to the sale of eLong, ADRs decreased by 5% primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. Acquisitions added approximately 6% of inorganic hotel revenue growth in 2015 and 7% of room night growth. Worldwide air revenue increased 37% (39% excluding eLong) in 2016 due to a 29% (32% excluding eLong) increase in air tickets sold and a 6% (5% excluding eLong) increase in revenue per air ticket, driven by new contractual agreements and the addition of Orbitz. Acquisitions added approximately 28% of inorganic air revenue growth in 2016 and 21% of air ticket 49 Table of Contents growth. Worldwide air revenue increased 21% (25% excluding eLong) in 2015 due to a 28% (35% excluding eLong) increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 6% (7% excluding eLong) decrease in revenue per air ticket. Acquisitions added approximately 18% of inorganic air revenue growth in 2015 and 15% of air ticket growth. The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, fees related to our corporate travel business and HomeAway revenue, increased by 79% in 2016 and 19% in 2015 primarily due to the acquisition of HomeAway and strong growth in advertising and media revenue as well as growth in our travel insurance and car rental products, including an inorganic contribution from Orbitz. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 4,852 $ 4,204 $ 3,749 15 % 12 % Agency 2,425 1,882 1,535 29 % 23 % Advertising and media (1) 807 566 479 43 % 18 % HomeAway 689 20 N/A N/A Total revenue $ 8,774 $ 6,672 $ 5,763 31 % 16 % ___________________________________ (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. The increase in merchant revenue in 2016 and 2015 was primarily due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue driven by an increase in room nights stayed. The increase in agency revenue in 2016 and 2015 was primarily due to the growth in agency hotel and air. The increase in advertising and media revenue in 2016 and 2015 was primarily due to continued growth in trivago and Expedia Media Solutions. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 727 $ 569 $ 536 28 % 6 % Credit card processing 508 451 414 13 % 9 % Data center and other 362 290 229 25 % 26 % Total cost of revenue (1) $ 1,597 $ 1,310 $ 1,179 22 % 11 % % of revenue 18.2 % 19.6 % 20.5 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ $ 37 $ 58 N/A N/A Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, and stock-based compensation. In 2016 , the increase in cost of revenue expense was driven by $158 million of increased customer operations expenses, $72 million of higher data center and other costs, as well as $57 million of higher net credit card processing costs related to growth of our merchant bookings. Acquisitions added approximately 18% of year-on-year cost of revenue growth for 2016 . In 2015 , the increase in cost of revenue expense was driven by $61 million of higher data center and other costs as well as $37 million of higher net credit card processing costs related to growth of our merchant bookings partially offset by a decrease in fraud and chargeback expenses. In addition, customer operation expenses increased $33 million to support volume growth across the Company. Acquisitions added approximately 8% of year-on-year cost of revenue growth for 2015 . 50 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 3,530 $ 2,718 $ 2,256 30 % 20 % Indirect costs 837 663 552 26 % 20 % Total selling and marketing (1) $ 4,367 $ 3,381 $ 2,808 29 % 20 % % of revenue 49.8 % 50.7 % 48.7 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ $ 54 $ 124 N/A N/A Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $986 million during 2016 compared to 2015 driven by an increase of $ 812 million of direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. trivago, Brand Expedia and Hotels.com as well as the added costs from our acquisitions of HomeAway and Orbitz accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increases. In addition, higher indirect costs of $174 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by additional personnel due to an accelerated pace of hiring in the lodging supply organization in the first half of the year and additional headcount at HomeAway and Orbitz. Acquisitions added approximately 14% of year-on-year selling and marketing growth for 2016 . Selling and marketing expenses increased $573 million during 2015 compared to 2014 driven by an increase of $462 million of direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. Brand Expedia, trivago, Hotels.com and Hotwire accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increase. In addition, higher personnel expenses of $111 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by the additional personnel due to an accelerated pace of hiring in the lodging supply organization as well as an increase of stock-based compensation of $15 million. Acquisitions added approximately 8% of year-on-year selling and marketing growth for 2015 . Technology and Content Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 627 $ 434 $ 370 45 % 17 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 362 265 214 36 % 24 % Other 246 131 102 88 % 29 % Total technology and content (1) $ 1,235 $ 830 $ 686 49 % 21 % % of revenue 14.1 % 12.4 % 11.9 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ $ 11 $ 21 N/A N/A Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. Technology and content expense increased $405 million for 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to increased personnel and overhead costs of $193 million to support key technology projects primarily in Brand Expedia Group, the corporate technology function and trivago, as well as the addition of HomeAway personnel and overhead costs. Depreciation and amortization of technology assets also increased $97 million year-over-year. Other costs increased $115 million year-over-year primarily due to expansion into the cloud computing environment and higher licensing and maintenance to support the growth of our technology platforms as well as higher stock-based compensation of $37 million, including amounts related to the 51 Table of Contents trivago employee stock option plan as described in NOTE 10 Stock-Based Awards and Other Equity Instruments . Acquisitions added approximately 20% to year-on-year technology and content growth for 2016 . Technology and content expense increased $144 million for 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to increased personnel and overhead costs of $64 million to support key technology projects primarily for our corporate technology function and Brand Expedia, increased depreciation and amortization of technology assets of $51 million as well as an increase in other costs of $29 million due to higher licensing and maintenance and data center costs to support the growth of the technology platforms. Acquisitions added approximately 6% to year-on-year technology and content growth for 2015 . General and Administrative Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 411 $ 330 $ 277 24 % 19 % Professional fees and other 267 244 148 10 % 65 % Total general and administrative (1) $ 678 $ 574 $ 425 18 % 35 % % of revenue 7.7 % 8.6 % 7.4 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts: $ $ 23 $ 24 N/A N/A General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense increased $104 million in 2016 compared to 2015 due primarily to higher personnel and overhead expenses of $81 million driven by the organic growth of the business and the inorganic addition of HomeAway and Orbitz. In addition, stock-based compensation increased $28 million year-over-year, which included increases related to trivago as well as in general employee stock-based compensation that were partially offset by the absence of eLong related stock-based compensation in 2016. Acquisitions added approximately 7% of year-on-year general and administrative growth for 2016 , which reflects the addition of a full year of expenses for HomeAway and Orbitz, partially offset by higher acquisition-related expenses in the prior year. General and administrative expense increased $149 million in 2015 compared to 2014 due primarily to higher professional fees and other of $96 million driven mostly by higher stock-based compensation of $39 million, which was primarily due to additional options granted during the current year as well as expense related to replacement awards issued in connection with acquisitions, as well as an increase of $31 million due to higher consulting and legal fees related to heightened merger and acquisition activity. In addition, personnel and overhead expenses increased $53 million in 2015 compared to 2014 . Acquisitions, including acquisition-related expenses, added approximately 24% of year-on-year general and administrative growth for 2015 . Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 317 $ 156 $ 77 103 % 104 % Impairment of intangible assets 35 7 3 N/A N/A Amortization of intangible assets increased $161 million in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions in the prior year, partially offset by the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets. In 2015 , amortization increased $84 million primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions, including Orbitz and HomeAway. In 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , we recorded impairment losses of $35 million , $7 million and $3 million related to indefinite-lived trade names within our Core OTA segment due to changes in estimated future revenues of the related brands. 52 Table of Contents Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other $ 26 $ (105 ) $ 42 N/A N/A Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of increases in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. During 2016 , we recognized approximately $12 million for amounts expected to be paid in advance of litigation related to "merchant model car rental transactions in connection with Hawaii's general excise tax litigation. The remaining expense in 2016 related to changes in our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. During 2015 , we received a refund of prepaid pay-to-play payments of $132 million from the State of Hawaii in connection with the general excise tax litigation. In addition, during 2015 , we recorded a $24 million benefit in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other for the recovery of costs related to occupancy tax litigation matters. These gains were partially offset by charges for changes in our reserve related to hotel occupancy and other taxes. During 2014 , we recognized approximately $25.5 million related to monies paid in advance of litigation in the San Francisco occupancy tax proceedings. For additional information, see NOTE 17 Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In connection with the migration of technology platforms and centralization of technology, supply and other operations, primarily related to previously disclosed acquisitions, we recognized $56 million , $105 million and $26 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2016 , 2015 and 2014 . In 2016 and 2015, the charges were primarily related to employee severance and benefits as a part of the Orbitz integration and represents estimated severance amounts under pre-existing written plans and contracts Orbitz had with its employees, stock-compensation charges for acceleration of replacement awards pursuant to certain of these agreements as well as incremental retention compensation for exiting employees. In 2014 , the charges primarily related to severance and related benefits as well as an Australian stamp duty tax that was payable to certain Australian jurisdictions related to business restructuring events. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect to incur approximately $10 to $15 million in 2017 related to these integrations and estimates do not include any possible future acquisition integrations. For additional information, see NOTE 15 Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Income Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Operating income $ 462 $ 414 $ 518 12 % (20 )% % of revenue 5.3 % 6.2 % 9.0 % In 2016 , operating income increased primarily due to higher growth in revenue and the absence of eLong operating losses, partially offset by increased costs and expenses, including growth in technology and content expense in excess of revenue growth, higher amortization of intangible assets as well as the comparative impact of the prior year Hawaii pay-to-play gain of $132 million. In 2015 , operating income decreased due to increased costs and expenses, including growth in selling and marketing expense in excess of revenue growth, growth in general and administrative expense in excess of revenue growth as well as an increase in restructuring and related reorganization charges, partially offset by the gain of $132 million related to the Hawaii pay-to-play refunds. 53 Table of Contents Included in our consolidated operating income for 2015 are operating losses for eLong through its disposition date of May 22, 2015 of $86 million. eLong had operating losses of $51 million for 2014 . Interest Income and Expense Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Interest income $ 20 $ 17 $ 27 18 % (39 )% Interest expense (173 ) (126 ) (98 ) 37 % 29 % Interest income increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to higher rates of return, partially offset by lower invested balances. Interest income decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower invested balances as well as lower rates of return due to a shift out of higher-yielding currencies due to the sale of eLong and funding U.S. dollar denominated acquisitions, and lower market rates in certain currencies. Interest expense increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily as a result of additional interest on the Euro 650 million of senior unsecured notes issued in June 2015 and the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in December 2015. Interest expense increased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily as a result of additional interest on the $500 million senior unsecured notes issued in August 2014, the Euro 650 million of senior unsecured notes issued in June 2015 as well as the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in December 2015. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015 , our long-term indebtedness totaled $3.2 billion . As of December 31, 2014 , our long-term indebtedness totaled $1.7 billion. Gain on Sale of Business On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong, Inc. for approximately $671 million (or $666 million net of costs to sell and other transaction expenses) to several purchasers, including Ctrip.com International, Ltd. As a result of the sale, we recognized a pre-tax gain of $509 million ($395 million after tax) during 2015 included in gain on sale of business in our consolidated statement of operations. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ (15 ) $ 25 $ 6 Non-controlling interest basis adjustment 77 3 Other-than-temporary investment impairments (12 ) Other (5 ) 11 9 Total other, net $ (32 ) $ 113 $ 18 Provision for Income Taxes Year ended December 31, % Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ 15 $ 203 $ 92 (92 )% 122 % Effective tax rate 5.5 % 21.9 % 19.7 % The decrease in our effective rate for 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to tax benefits from the adoption of new accounting guidance relating to stock-based compensation and the release of valuation allowances in the United Kingdom and Germany on cumulative foreign net operating losses for which it is more likely than not the tax benefit will be realized. As a result of lower pre-tax earnings in 2016, the impacts of these benefits create a significant effect on our effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate for 2016 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions outside of the 54 Table of Contents United States, predominately Switzerland, where our statutory income tax rate is lower as well as the same factors impacting the year-over-year effective tax rate comparison. The increase in the effective rate for 2015 compared to 2014 is primarily due to the gain on the sale of eLong during 2015 , and the release of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in 2014 . Our effective tax rate for 2015 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions outside of the United States as well as the sale of eLong, which had a U.S. effective rate of less than 35%. Our effective tax rate for 2014 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate due to earnings in foreign jurisdictions outside of the United States as well as the release of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions. For additional information, see NOTE 11 Income Taxes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $1.9 billion and $1.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , including $1.1 billion and $645 million of cash and short-term investment balances held in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries (which includes $737 million and $441 million related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States) as well as $313 million and $72 million held in majority-owned subsidiaries, which is also indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, which is essentially untapped. Cumulative earnings related to undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries that we intend to indefinitely reinvest outside of the United States totaled $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2016 . To date, we have permanently reinvested the majority of these foreign earnings outside of the United States and we do not intend to repatriate these earnings to fund U.S. operations. Should we distribute earnings of foreign subsidiaries in the form of dividends or otherwise, we may be subject to U.S. income taxes. The revolving credit facility, which was amended in the first quarter of 2016 to increase borrowing capacity to $1.5 billion, extend the expiration to February 2021 and provide more favorable fees (as disclosed herein), bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings with the applicable interest rate on drawn amounts was LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts was 17.5 basis points as of December 31, 2016. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of December 31, 2016 , Moodys rating was Ba1 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited to access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2016 , we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt, which was comprised of $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2018 that bear interest at 7.456% (the 7.456% Notes), $750 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2020 that bear interest at 5.95% (the 5.95% Notes), $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2024 that bear interest at 4.5% (the 4.5% Notes), Euro 650 million of registered senior unsecured notes due in June 2022 that bear interest at 2.5% (the "2.5% Notes") and $750 million of registered senior unsecured notes due in February 2026 that bear interest at 5.0% ("the 5.0% Notes"). Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we are using both the merchant model and the agency model in many of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel, advertising or certain Expedia Affiliate Network relationships, or if there are changes to the merchant model, supplier payment terms, or booking patterns that compress the time period between our receipt of cash from travelers and our payment to suppliers, such as with mobile bookings via smartphones, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. Our future working capital benefits could also be impacted by the transition of our recent HomeAway acquisitions shift to more of a transactional model from a subscription model. 55 Table of Contents As our ETP program continues to expand, and depending on relative traveler and supplier adoption rates and customer payment preferences, among other things, the scaling up of ETP has and will continue to negatively impact near term working capital cash balances, cash flow, relative liquidity during the transition, and hotel revenue margins. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, as well as the assimilation and transformation of the HomeAway vacation rental listing business, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of December 31, 2016 , we had a deficit in our working capital of $2.7 billion , compared to a deficit of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. The slight change in deficit is primarily due to operating cash flows offset by financing and investing activities, including capital expenditures and share repurchases. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. In addition, in 2016, we began our expansion into the cloud computing environment. While we expect our cloud computing expenses to increase significantly over the next few years, they are expected to result in lower overall capital expenditures related to our data centers over time. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions (including purchases of non-controlling interest), share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Excluding capital expenditures associated with the build out of our new corporate headquarters, we expect total capital expenditures for 2017 to decline slightly over 2016 spending levels. Our current estimates for the new headquarters total approximately $650 million of which approximately $30 million was spent in 2016 and less than $100 million will be spent in 2017. The remainder will be split roughly evenly between 2018 and 2019. Our cash flows are as follows: Year ended December 31, $ Change 2016 2015 2014 2016 vs 2015 2015 vs 2014 (In millions) Cash provided by (used in) operations: Operating activities $ 1,564 $ 1,368 $ 1,367 $ 196 $ 1 Investing activities (718 ) (2,371 ) (924 ) 1,653 (1,447 ) Financing activities (691 ) 1,404 48 (2,095 ) 1,356 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (35 ) (127 ) (109 ) 92 (18 ) In 2016 , net cash provided by operating activities increased by $196 million primarily due to higher operating income after adjusting for impacts of depreciation and amortization, partially offset by a decrease in benefits from working capital adjustments and a net refund of hotel occupancy and other taxes in 2015. In 2015 , net cash provided by operating activities remained essentially flat as a net refund of hotel occupancy and other taxes was mostly offset by decreased benefits from working capital changes, including increases in income tax and interest payments. In 2016 , cash used in investing activities decreased by $1.7 billion primarily due to a decrease of cash used for acquisitions of $2.1 billion, partially offset by a decrease in net proceeds related to the sale of eLong of $457 million in the prior year. In 2015 , cash used in investing activities increased by $1.4 billion primarily due to an increase of cash used for acquisitions of $1.5 billion due primarily to our acquisition of Orbitz in September 2015 and HomeAway in December 2015 as well as higher capital expenditures of $460 million, including amounts paid for our new corporate headquarters, partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of eLong of $524 million. Cash used in financing activities in 2016 primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $456 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorizations discussed below, the repayment of $401 million of HomeAway Convertible Notes and $150 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $215 million of net proceeds from the initial public offering of trivago as well as $141 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. Cash provided by financing activities in 2015 primarily included $700 million of net proceeds for the issuance of 2.5% Notes in June 2015, $741 56 Table of Contents million in net proceeds for the issuance of the 5.0% Notes in December 2015, $120 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans as well as the issuance of treasury stock, and $91 million in excess tax benefit on equity awards, of which approximately $47 million related to the excess tax benefit associated with the stock options exercised by our Chairman and Senior Executive. These financing inflows were offset in part by $85 million of withholding taxes for stock option exercises paid on behalf of our Chairman and Senior Executive in exchange for surrendering a portion of his vested shares, which were concurrently cancelled, as well as cash paid to acquire shares of $61 million primarily under the repurchase authorizations discussed below, and $109 million cash dividend payments. Cash provided by financing activities in 2014 primarily included $493 million of net proceeds for the issuance of 4.5% Notes in August 2014 and $129 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans as well as the issuance of treasury stock, partially offset by cash paid to acquire shares of $538 million, including the repurchased shares under the 2012 authorization discussed below, and $85 million cash dividend payment. During 2012, 2010, and 2006, our Board of Directors, or the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock during each of the respective years and during 2015 authorized a repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock for a total of 70 million shares. Shares repurchased under the authorized programs were as follows: Year ended December 31, 2016 2015 2014 Number of shares repurchased 4.0 million 0.5 million 7.0 million Average price per share $ 109.64 $ 85.27 $ 76.26 Total cost of repurchases (in millions) (1) $ 436 $ 45 $ 537 (1) Amount excludes transaction costs. As of December 31, 2016 , 7.3 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under the 2015 authorization with no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Subsequent to December 31, 2016 , we repurchased an additional 0.3 million shares for a total cost of $30 million, excluding transaction costs, representing an average price of $113.42 per share. Our common stock dividend was $1.00 per share for 2016 , $0.84 per share for 2015 and $0.66 per share for 2014 . See NOTE 13 Stockholders Equity in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a detail of the quarterly dividend payments by year. In addition, in February 2017, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.28 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 30, 2017 to the stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 9, 2017 . Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2016 showed a net change of $92 million reflecting lower depreciations in foreign currencies in 2016 compared to 2015 . The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2015 showed a net change of $18 million reflecting higher depreciation in foreign currencies in the 2015 compared to 2014 . In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost of availability of future borrowings, including refinancing, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2016 : By Period Total Less than 1 year 1 to 3 years 3 to 5 years More than 5 years (In millions) Long-term debt (1) $ 4,253 $ 159 $ 818 $ 993 $ 2,283 Operating leases (2) 514 120 212 92 90 Purchase obligations (3) 268 239 29 Guarantees (4) 150 150 Letters of credit (4) 49 44 5 Total (5) $ 5,234 $ 712 $ 1,064 $ 1,085 $ 2,373 57 Table of Contents ____________________ (1) Our 7.456% Notes, 5.95% Notes, 2.5% Notes, 4.5% Notes, and 5.0% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2018, 2020, 2022, 2024, and 2026 respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. For the 2.5% Notes, the December 31, 2016 Euro exchange rate was used to convert the Euro 650 million to U.S. Dollars and calculate the related U.S. Dollar interest payments. (2) The operating leases are for office space and related office equipment. We account for these leases on a monthly basis. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Operating lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2026 . (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily for certain regulatory purposes as well as to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. Of the outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs, $19 million directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facility. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authorities of certain foreign countries to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within those countries. These countries hold all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. Our guarantees also include bonds relating to tax assessments that we are contesting and certain surety bonds related to various company performance obligations. (5) Excludes $221 million of unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2016 . Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see NOTE 18 Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Part II.