Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements reflect the views of our management regarding current expectations and projections about future events and are based on currently available information. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, those discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. The use of words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, intends, plans and believes, among others, generally identify forward-looking statements; however, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. We are not under any obligation to, and do not intend to, publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized. Please carefully review and consider the various disclosures made in this report and in our other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that attempt to advise interested parties of the risks and factors that may affect our business, prospects and results of operations. The information included in this managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes included in this Quarterly Report, and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Overview Expedia, Inc. is an online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to efficiently research, plan, book and experience travel. We have created a global travel marketplace used by a broad range of leisure and corporate travelers, offline retail travel agents and travel service providers. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel products and services provided by numerous airlines, lodging properties, car rental companies, destination service providers, cruise lines, vacation rental property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our transaction-based websites. Our portfolio of brands includes Expedia.com , Hotels.com , Hotwire.com TM , Orbitz Worldwide, Travelocity , Expedia Affiliate Network (EAN), HomeAway, Classic Vacations , Expedia Local Expert TM , Expedia CruiseShipCenters , Egencia , Venere Net SpA (Venere), trivago GmbH (trivago), CarRentals.com TM and Wotif.com Holdings Limited (Wotif Group). In addition, many of these brands have related international points of sale, including those as part of Air Asia-Expedia. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see Portfolio of Brands in Part I, Item 1, Business, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The travel industry, including offline agencies, online agencies and other suppliers of travel products and services, has historically been characterized by intense competition, as well as rapid and significant change. Generally, 2014 and 2015 represented years of continuing improvement for the travel industry. However, geopolitical conflicts, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues and macroeconomic concerns are examples of events that contribute to a somewhat uncertain environment, which could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. 25 Table of Contents Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet have driven rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2015, over 50% of U.S. and European leisure, unmanaged and corporate travel expenditures occured online. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe, and are estimated to be in the range of 25% to 35%. These penetration rates have increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which has attracted many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, airlines and lodging companies have aggressively pursued direct online distribution of their products and services. Competitive entrants such as metasearch companies, including Kayak.com (which The Priceline Group acquired in May 2013), trivago (in which Expedia acquired a majority ownership interest in March 2013) as well as TripAdvisor (which completed its conversion to a metasearch site in June 2013), introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools, the impact of which is currently uncertain. In addition, the increasing popularity of the sharing economy, accelerated by the online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Players such as Airbnb and HomeAway (which Expedia acquired in December 2015) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is estimated to account for approximately $100 billion of annual travel spend and expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Furthermore, we have seen increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies as evidenced by recent innovations including direct booking functionality, as well as licensing deals and proposed and actual acquisitions by companies such as Google. Finally, traditional consumer e-commerce and group buying websites have been expanding their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their sites. The online travel industry has also seen the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia has both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings for our hotel supply partners and we expect our use of these models to continue to evolve, including through the continued expansion of our ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. Intense competition also historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. We manage our selling and marketing spending on a brand basis at the local or regional level, making decisions in each market that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. In certain cases, particularly in emerging markets, we are pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities for which our marketing efficiency is less favorable than that for our consolidated business, but for which we still believe the opportunity to be attractive. The crowded online travel environment is now driving certain secondary and tertiary online travel companies to establish marketing agreements with global players in order to leverage distribution and technology capabilities while focusing resources on capturing consumer mind share. In May 2015, Expedia sold its 62.4% equity stake in eLong for approximately $671 million to several purchasers including Ctrip.com International, Ltd (Ctrip). Expedia and Ctrip also reached agreement on cooperation for certain travel products in specified geographic markets. The transaction closed on May 22, 2015. Unless otherwise noted, all discussion in the Trends and Growth Strategy sections refers to results for Expedia, Inc. excluding eLong. Hotel We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). Although our relationships with our hotel supply partners have remained broadly stable in the past few years, as part of the global rollout of ETP, we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, which has negatively impacted the margin of revenue we earn per booking. In addition, as we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we 26 Table of Contents have reduced and expect to continue to reduce our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night. Lastly, currency exchange rate fluctuations have had a negative effect on unit economics due to unfavorable book-to-stay as well as translation impacts. Based on these dynamics, our average revenue per room night declined in each quarter of 2014, 2015, and for the first quarter of 2016 and we expect it to remain under pressure in the future. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in average daily room rates (ADRs) has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry have generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, U.S. dollar-denominated ADRs declined in 2015 and in the first quarter of 2016 due to the currency translation impact. Current occupancy rates remain at record highs; however, U.S. hotel supply growth is beginning to accelerate, which may put additional pressure on ADRs. In international markets, hotel supply is being added at a faster rate as hotel owners and operators try to take advantage of opportunities in faster growing regions such as China and India, among others. Companies like Airbnb have also added incremental global supply in the alternative accommodations space. In addition, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. We have had success adding supply to our marketplace with over 282,000 properties on our global websites as of March 31, 2016. In addition, our room night growth has been healthy, with room nights excluding eLong growing 24% in 2014, 36% in 2015, and 37% for the first quarter of 2016. ADRs for rooms booked on Expedia sites excluding eLong increased 3% in 2014, declined 5% in 2015, and declined 3% for the first quarter of 2016. As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2016, hotel accounted for 58%. HomeAway With our acquisition of HomeAway and all of its brands in December 2015, we have expanded into the fast growing $100 billion alternative accommodations market. HomeAway is a leader in this market with over 1.2 million live vacation rental listings and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia. As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2016, HomeAway accounted for 7%. In addition, in February 2016, HomeAway launched a traveler service fee in the United States, consistent with the market practice. The fee is expected to contribute to HomeAways revenue growth and help fund marketing investment, programs to better protect travelers and future growth initiatives. Air Significant airline sector consolidation in the United States in recent years has generally resulted in lower overall capacity and higher fares, which combined with the significant declines in fuel prices led to record levels of profitability for the U.S. air carriers, further strengthening their position. However, in 2015 and for the first quarter of 2016, there has been evidence of discounting by the U.S. carriers while currency headwinds and weaker macroeconomic trends put pressure on international results. Ticket prices on Expedia sites excluding eLong declined 11% in 2015 and 8% for the first quarter of 2016 as short-haul traffic and low cost carriers grew alongside increasingly competitive airline pricing. We continue to encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine and as certain supply agreements renew. Air ticket volumes excluding eLong increased 35% in 2015 and 52% for the first quarter of 2016 primarily due the acquisition of Orbitz and strong growth on Brand Expedia sites. As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2016, air accounted for 11%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch site, in addition to Expedia Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In the first quarter of 2016, we generated a total of $174 million of advertising and media revenue representing 9% of total revenue for the quarter, up from $121 million (excluding eLong) in the first quarter of 2015. 27 Table of Contents Growth Strategy Product Innovation. Each of our leading brands was a pioneer in online travel and has been responsible for driving key innovations in the space over the past two decades. Each Expedia technology platform is operated by a dedicated technology team, which drives innovations that make researching and shopping for travel increasingly easier and help customers find and book the best possible travel options. In the past several years, we made key investments in technology, including significant development of our technical platforms that makes it possible for us to deliver innovations at a faster pace. For example, we launched new global platforms for Hotels.com and Brand Expedia, enabling us to significantly increase the innovation cycle, thereby improving conversion and driving faster growth rates for those brands. In 2013, Expedia signed an agreement to power the technology, supply and customer service platforms for Travelocity-branded sites in the United States and Canada, enabling Expedia to leverage its investments in each of these key areas. The shift of Travelocity-branded sites to the Expedia technology platform was successfully completed over the course of 2014. In November 2014, Expedia completed the acquisition of Wotif Group and subsequently converted the Wotif.com site to the Expedia platform. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. The strategic marketing and other related agreements previously entered into were terminated. In September 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, including all of its brands. In December 2015, Expedia completed the acquisition of HomeAway, Inc., including all of its brands. We intend to continue leveraging these investments when launching additional points of sale in new countries, introducing new website features, adding supplier products and services including new business model offerings, as well as proprietary and user-generated content for travelers. Global Expansion. Our Expedia, Hotels.com, Egencia, EAN, and Hotwire brands operate both domestically and through international points of sale, including in Europe, Asia Pacific, Canada and Latin America. In addition, Venere.com is an online hotel reservation specialist in Europe, eBookers offers multi-product online reservation in Europe and Wotif Group includes a leading portfolio of travel brands, including Wotif.com, Wotif.co.nz, lastminute.com.au, lastminute.com.nz and travel.com.au. Egencia, our corporate travel business, operates in 65 countries around the world and continues to expand, including its 2012 acquisition of VIA Travel. The HomeAway portfolio has vacation rental sites all around the world. We own a majority share of trivago, a leading hotel metasearch company. Officially launched in 2005, trivago is one of the best known travel brands in Europe and North America. trivago continues to operate independently and rapidly grow revenue through global expansion, including aggressive expansion in new countries. In addition, we have commercial agreements in place with Ctrip and eLong in China, as well as Decolar.com, Inc. in Latin America. In the first quarter of 2016, approximately 35% of our worldwide gross bookings and 41% of worldwide revenue were through international points of sale compared to just 21% for both worldwide gross bookings and revenue in 2005. We have a goal of generating at least 65% of our revenue through businesses and points of sale outside of the United States. In January 2015, we acquired the Travelocity brand and other associated assets from Sabre. As a result of the acquisition, the strategic marketing agreement previously entered into during 2013, which joined Travelocitys strong brand with our best-in-class booking platform, supply base and customer service, was terminated. Evolving this relationship strengthens Expedia, Inc.s ability to continue to innovate and deliver the best travel experiences to the widest set of travelers, all over the world. In March 2015, we completed the acquisition of an additional 25% equity interest of AAE Travel Pte. Ltd., the joint venture formed between Expedia and AirAsia Berhad in 2011. This investment increases our total ownership in the venture to 75% and we consider this business to be a key part of our Asia Pacific strategy. Following the close of the transaction in March 2015, the financial results of the AirAsia-Expedia venture are included in Expedias consolidated financial statements. In March 2015, Expedia and Decolar.com, Inc., the Latin American online travel company that operates the Decolar.com and Despegar.com branded websites, announced that the two companies have expanded their partnership to include deeper cooperation on hotel supply and a minority equity investment by Expedia. Building on the commercial relationship the two companies have had since 2002, the expanded agreement broadens Expedias powering of Decolars hotel supply and introduces the opportunity for Decolar to provide Expedia access to its hotel supply in Latin America. The customers of both companies will benefit from the broad, shared selection of hotels, and hotel partners will gain increased access to travelers in Latin America and around the world. 28 Table of Contents In September 2015, we completed the acquisition of Orbitz Worldwide, a leading global portfolio of travel brands and business-to-business offerings. The addition of Orbitz Worldwide brings Expedia an attractive set of well-recognized brands built by a talented team that is passionate about travel. In December 2015, we completed the acquisition of HomeAway, which operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, with sites representing over one million paid listings of vacation rental homes in over 190 countries. With Expedias expertise in powering global transactional platforms and our industry-leading technology capabilities, we are partnering with our HomeAway brand to accelerate their shift from a classified marketplace to an online, transactional model to create even better experiences for HomeAways global traveler audience and the owners and managers of its properties around the world. In expanding our global reach, we leverage significant investments in technology, operations, brand building, supplier relationships and other initiatives that we have made since the launch of Expedia.com in 1996. Our scale of operations enhances the value of technology innovations we introduce on behalf of our travelers and suppliers. We believe that our size and scale afford the company the ability to negotiate competitive rates with our supply partners, provide breadth of choice and travel deals to our traveling customers through an expanding supply portfolio and create opportunities for new value added offers for our customers such as our loyalty programs. The size of Expedias worldwide traveler base makes our sites an increasingly appealing channel for travel suppliers to reach customers. In addition, the sheer size of our user base and search query volume allows us to test new technologies very quickly in order to determine which innovations are most likely to improve the travel research and booking process, and then roll those features out to our worldwide audience in order to drive improvements in conversion. New Channel Penetration . Today, the majority of online travel bookings are generated through typical desktop and laptop computers. However, technological innovations and developments are creating new opportunities including travel bookings made through mobile devices. In the past few years, each of our brands made significant progress creating new mobile websites and mobile/tablet applications that are receiving strong reviews and solid download trends. We believe mobile bookings via smartphones present an opportunity for incremental growth as they are often completed within one or two days of the travel or stay, which is a much shorter booking window than we have historically experienced via more traditional online booking methods. During the last few years, customers behaviors and preferences on tablet devices began to show differences from trends seen on smartphones. For example, the booking window on a smartphone typically is much shorter than the trend on the tablet device and historical average on a desktop or laptop. In addition, we are seeing increasing cross-device usage among our customers, who connect to our websites and apps across multiple devices and platforms throughout their travel planning process. We also believe in the future mobile is likely to represent an efficient marketing channel given the opportunity for direct traffic acquisition, increase in share of wallet and in repeat customers, particularly through mobile applications. During the first quarter of 2016, one in four Expedia, Inc. transactions were booked globally on a mobile device. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel products and services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel products, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized when the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks or longer. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, are experienced in the second half of the year as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we aggressively market during the busy booking period for summer travel. As a result, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The continued growth of our international operations or a change in our product mix, including the assimilation, growth and shift to more of a transaction-based business model for the vacation rental listing business of HomeAway, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. 29 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For additional information about our critical accounting policies and estimates, see the disclosure included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. Occupancy and Other Taxes Legal Proceedings. We are currently involved in twenty-two lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue do not apply to the services we provide, namely the facilitation of hotel reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. Recent developments include: Town of Breckenridge, Colorado Litigation. On April 20, 2016, the court granted the online travel companies motion for summary judgment, and denied the towns motion for summary judgment. The court ruled that the Breckenridge Accommodations Tax does not apply to online travel companies or the amounts they charge for their services. City of San Antonio, Texas Litigation. On April 11, 2016, the U.S. District Court entered an amended judgment including approximately $68 million in tax, interest and penalty amounts for the Expedia companies, including Orbitz. The Expedia companies intend to appeal this judgment to the U.S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. State of Kentucky Litigation. On March 17, 2016, the Kentucky state court granted in part and denied in part the plaintiffs motion for summary judgment, finding that the online travel companies compensation is subject to state sales tax but that the plaintiffs common law claims are preempted. State of Wisconsin Litigation. On February 11, 2016, the Wisconsin Court of Appeals affirmed the lower courts ruling that taxes are not due on Orbitzs travel services. Arizona Cities Litigation. On April 20, 2016, the Arizona Tax Court granted the plaintiff cities motion for summary judgment in part and denied it in part; the court also denied the defendant online travel companies motion for summary judgment. For additional information on these and other legal proceedings, see Part II, Item 1, Legal Proceedings. 30 Table of Contents We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $45 million as of March 31, 2016, and $43 million as of December 31, 2015. Pay-to-Play . Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as pay-to-play. Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit in multiple European Union jurisdictions, including in the United Kingdom, regarding the application of VAT to our European Union related transactions. While we believe we comply with applicable VAT laws, rules and regulations in the relevant jurisdictions, the tax authorities may determine that we owe additional taxes. In certain jurisdictions, including the United Kingdom, we may be required to pay-to-play any VAT assessment prior to contesting its validity. While we believe that we will be successful based on the merits of our positions with regard to the United Kingdom and other VAT audits in pay-to-play jurisdictions, it is nevertheless reasonably possible that we could be required to pay any assessed amounts in order to contest or litigate the applicability of any assessments and an estimate for a reasonably possible amount of any such payments cannot be made. The following are significant pay-to-play payments made by Expedia companies: Hawaii (General Excise Tax). During 2013, Expedia companies were required to pay-to-play and paid a total of $171 million in advance of litigation relating general excise taxes in the State of Hawaii. In September 2015, following a ruling by the Hawaii Supreme Court, the State of Hawaii refunded Expedia companies $132 million of the original pay-to-play amount. As we had previously expensed the pay-to-play payments in prior periods, we recognized a gain in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other during 2015 related to this matter. Orbitz also received a similar refund of $22 million from the State of Hawaii in September 2015. The amount paid, net of refunds, by the Expedia companies and Orbitz to the State of Hawaii in satisfaction of past general excise taxes on their services was $44 million. In addition, the following final assessments by the Hawaii Department of Taxation for general excise taxes against the Expedia companies, including Orbitz, are currently under review in Hawaii tax courts: A total $26 million relating to non-commissioned hotel reservations for the 2012 tax year, which includes $6 million for Orbitz; A total of $39 million relating to non-commissioned travel agency services relating to rental cars for the tax years 2000 through 2012 totaling, which includes $10 million for Orbitz and a duplicative assessment for Expedia and Hotels.com totaling $9.3 million and thus are overstated; A total of $34 million relating to non-commissioned travel agency services relating to hotel reservations and car rental for the 2013 tax year, which includes $5 million for Orbitz; and A total of $12 million relating to hotel and car rental revenue for agency model transactions for the time period 2000 to 2014 and hotel and car rental revenue for merchant model transactions for the 2014 tax year. San Francisco (Occupancy Tax). During 2009, we were required to pay-to-play and paid $48 million in advance of litigation relating to occupancy tax proceedings with the City of San Francisco and in May 2014, the Expedia companies paid an additional $25.5 million under protest in order to contest additional assessments for later time periods. In addition, Orbitz in total has paid $4.6 million to the City of San Francisco to contest similar assessments issued against it by the city. On August 6, 2014, the California Court of Appeals stayed this case pending review and decision by the California Supreme Court of the City of San Diego, California Litigation. If we prevail in the litigation for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. 31 Table of Contents Legislation. Certain jurisdictions, including the states of New York, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, and Maryland, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales taxes for hotel occupancy. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including to the states of New York, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, and Maryland, the District of Columbia and the city of New York, as well as certain other county and local jurisdictions. Segments We have four reportable segments: Core Online Travel Companies (Core OTA), trivago, Egencia and HomeAway. In addition, eLong was a reportable segment through its disposal on May 22, 2015. Our Core OTA segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Orbitz.com, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire.com, Travelocity, Venere, Wotif Group, CarRentals.com, and Classic Vacations. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Our Egencia segment, which also includes Orbitz for Business, provides managed travel services to corporate customers worldwide. Our HomeAway segment, created by our acquisition of HomeAway on December 15, 2015, operates an online marketplace for the vacation rental industry. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings represent the total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds. As travelers have increased their use of the internet to book travel arrangements, we have generally seen our gross bookings increase, reflecting the growth in the online travel industry, our organic market share gains and our business acquisitions. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Gross Bookings Core OTA $ 17,226 $ 12,907 33 % trivago (1) N/A Egencia 1,656 1,366 21 % HomeAway (1) N/A eLong (2) 713 N/A Total gross bookings $ 18,882 $ 14,986 26 % Revenue Margin Core OTA 8.9 % 9.1 % trivago (1) N/A N/A Egencia 6.6 % 7.2 % HomeAway (1) N/A N/A eLong (2) N/A 4.6 % Total revenue margin 10.1 % 9.2 % (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. In addition, gross bookings from HomeAway, our newly acquired online marketplace for the vacation rental industry, are also excluded from the above total gross bookings. However, third-party revenue from trivago and HomeAway is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. (2) Includes results for eLong through its disposal on May 22, 2015. 32 Table of Contents The increase in worldwide gross bookings for the three months ended March 31, 2016, as compared to the same period in 2015, was primarily driven by 21% of inorganic impact from acquisitions, as well as growth in the Core OTA segment, led by strong performance at Brand Expedia and Hotels.com. Results of Operations On May 22, 2015, we completed the sale of our 62.4% ownership stake in eLong. The below discussion of the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 include results for eLong. Operating expense tables below present total expenses including eLong for the prior year period as well as eLong specific amounts included within the consolidated total. On September 17, 2015, we completed our acquisition of Orbitz. Orbitz was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and, during the first quarter of 2016, we have recognized approximately $192 million in revenue and approximately $30 million in operating losses, including amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges, stock-based compensation as well as fees related to the acquisition. On December 15, 2015, we completed our acquisition of HomeAway. HomeAway was consolidated into our results of operations starting on the acquisition date and, during the first quarter of 2016, we have recognized approximately $142 million in revenue and approximately $40 million in operating loss, including amortization of intangible assets, stock-based compensation charges including amounts related to restructuring activities as well as fees related to the acquisition. Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Segment Core OTA $ 1,540 $ 1,170 32 % trivago (Third-party revenue) 112 72 56 % Egencia 110 98 12 % HomeAway 142 N/A eLong 33 N/A Total revenue $ 1,904 $ 1,373 39 % Revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily driven by 27% of inorganic impact from acquisitions, growth in the Core OTA segment, including strong performance at Brand Expedia, Hotels.com and EAN, as well as growth at trivago. Worldwide hotel revenue increased 21% (25% excluding eLong) for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015. The increases were primarily due to a 10% (37% excluding eLong) increase in room nights stayed driven by the inorganic impact of acquisitions as well as healthy growth at Hotels.com and Brand Expedia as well as a 10% increase (9% decrease excluding eLong) in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night excluding eLong decreased primarily due to margin reductions aimed at expanding the size and availability of the global hotel supply portfolio, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs, as well as a net unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. Revenue per room night is expected to continue to decrease year-over-year in 2016. Absent impacts due to the sale of eLong, ADRs decreased 3% year-over-year in the first quarter of 2016 primarily due to an unfavorable foreign exchange translation impact. Acquisitions added approximately 13% of inorganic hotel revenue growth and 11% of room night growth for the quarter. 33 Table of Contents Worldwide air revenue increased 50% (54% excluding eLong) for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, due to an 42% (52% excluding eLong) increase in air tickets sold and an 6% (1% excluding eLong) increase in revenue per air ticket. Acquisitions added approximately 46% of inorganic air revenue growth and 36% of air ticket growth for the quarter. The remaining worldwide revenue, other than hotel and air discussed above, which includes advertising and media, car rental, destination services, fees related to our corporate travel business and HomeAway revenue, increased by 82% for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the acquisition of HomeAway and strong growth in advertising and media revenue as well as growth in our travel insurance and car rental products. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Revenue by Business Model Merchant $ 1,065 $ 877 21 % Agency 523 374 40 % Advertising and media (1) 174 122 43 % HomeAway 142 N/A Total revenue $ 1,904 $ 1,373 39 % (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Merchant revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the increase in merchant hotel revenue driven by an increase in room nights stayed. Agency revenue increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to the growth in agency hotel and agency air. Advertising and media revenue increased for the three ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to continued growth in revenue at trivago and Expedia Media Solutions. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Customer operations $ 180 $ 136 32 % Credit card processing 134 112 20 % Data center and other 89 74 20 % Total cost of revenue (1) $ 403 $ 322 25 % % of revenue 21.2 % 23.4 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts $ $ 23 N/A Cost of revenue primarily consists of (1) customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors, (2) credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks, and (3) other costs, primarily including data center costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain pre-purchased hotel supply at eLong (in the first quarter of 2015) and stock-based compensation. During the three months ended March 31, 2016, the increase in cost of revenue expense as compared to the same period in 2015 was driven by $44 million of increased customer operations expenses, $22 million of higher net credit card processing costs related to growth of our merchant bookings, as well as higher data center and other costs, partially offset by the elimination of pre-purchased hotel supply costs due to the disposal of eLong. Acquisitions added approximately 26% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 34 Table of Contents Selling and Marketing Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Direct costs $ 841 $ 610 38 % Indirect costs 200 153 31 % Total selling and marketing (1) $ 1,041 $ 763 36 % % of revenue 54.7 % 55.6 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts $ $ 34 N/A Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization, as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses increased $278 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, driven by increases of $231 million of direct costs, including online and offline marketing expenses. Brand Expedia and trivago as well as the added costs from our acquisitions of Orbitz and HomeAway accounted for the majority of the total direct cost increase. In addition, higher personnel expenses of $47 million also contributed to the increase and were driven by the additional personnel due to an accelerated pace of hiring in the lodging supply organization and additional headcount at Orbitz and HomeAway. Acquisitions added approximately 22% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Technology and Content Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 162 $ 102 58 % Depreciation and amortization of technology assets 80 59 36 % Other 51 29 75 % Total technology and content (1) $ 293 $ 190 54 % % of revenue 15.4 % 13.9 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts $ $ 6 N/A Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, depreciation and amortization of technology assets including hardware, and purchased and internally developed software, and other costs including licensing and maintenance expense and stock-based compensation. Technology and content expense increased $103 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to increased personnel and overhead costs of $60 million for additional personnel to support key technology projects in our corporate technology function and Brand Expedia and a reduced rate of capitalization of software development costs as well as the addition of HomeAway and Orbitz. Depreciation and amortization of technology assets also increased $21 million quarter over quarter. Acquisitions added approximately 26% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 35 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Personnel and overhead $ 98 $ 70 39 % Professional fees and other 50 46 9 % Total general and administrative (1) $ 148 $ 116 27 % % of revenue 7.8 % 8.5 % (1) Includes the following eLong amounts $ $ 4 N/A General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions as well as fees for external professional services including legal, tax and accounting, and other costs including stock-based compensation. General and administrative expense increased $32 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, due primarily to higher personnel and overhead expenses of $28 million due to personnel growth. Acquisitions added approximately 20% of inorganic growth for the three months ended March 31, 2016. Amortization of Intangible Assets Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Amortization of intangible assets $ 90 $ 25 259 % % of revenue 4.7 % 1.8 % Amortization of intangible assets increased $65 million during the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to amortization related to new business acquisitions, including Orbitz and HomeAway. Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other consists of changes in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (pay-to-play) as well as certain other legal reserves. Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other were $2 million and $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Restructuring and related reorganization charges $ 30 $ 5 537 % % of revenue 1.6 % 0.3 % 36 Table of Contents In connection with the migration of technology platforms and centralization of technology, supply and other operations, primarily related to previously disclosed acquisitions, we recognized $30 million and $5 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during the first quarter ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect approximately $25 million of additional restructuring charges for the remainder of 2016 (for total 2016 charges of up to $55 million), but these could be higher should we make additional decisions throughout the year and estimates do not include any possible future acquisition integrations. For additional information, see Note 9Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Operating Loss Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Operating loss $ (102 ) $ (51 ) 101 % % of revenue (5.4 %) (3.7 %) Operating loss increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily due to increased costs and expenses, including growth in technology and content expense in excess of revenue growth as well as higher amortization of intangible assets. Included in our consolidated operating loss for three months ended March 31, 2015 are operating losses for eLong of $40 million. Interest Income and Expense Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Interest income $ 4 $ 6 (36 %) Interest expense (44 ) (28 ) 57 % Interest income decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015 primarily due to lower rates of return as a result of a shift out of higher-yielding currencies due to the sale of eLong. Interest expense increased for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, primarily as a result of additional interest on the Euro 650 million of senior unsecured notes issued in June 2015 and the $750 million senior unsecured notes issued in December 2015. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 ($ in millions) Foreign exchange rate gains (losses), net $ (19 ) $ 14 Noncontrolling investment basis adjustment 79 Other (8 ) 12 Total other, net $ (28 ) $ 105 During the three months ended March 31, 2015, in conjunction with the acquisition of additional interest in one of our equity method investments, we remeasured our previously held equity interest to fair value and recognized a gain of $79 million in other, net. 37 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 % Change ($ in millions) Provision for income taxes $ (49 ) $ (1 ) N/A Effective tax rate 28.7 % (2.9 %) We determine our provision for income taxes for interim periods using an estimate of our annual effective tax rate. We record any changes affecting the estimated annual tax rate in the interim period in which the change occurs, including discrete tax items. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2016 was measured against a pretax loss. The effective tax rate was driven by earnings in foreign jurisdictions, as well as the release of a valuation allowance for net operating losses. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was lower than the 35% federal statutory rate primarily due to the tax effect of the noncontrolling investment basis adjustment gain, partially offset by certain foreign losses for which Expedia did not recognize a benefit. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from operations; our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion at March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, including $933 million and $645 million of cash and short-term investment balances held in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, (which includes $665 million and $441 million related to earnings indefinitely invested outside the United States) as well as $74 million and $72 million of majority-owned subsidiaries, which is also indefinitely invested outside the United States; and our $1.5 billion revolving credit facility, which is essentially untapped. The revolving credit facility, which was amended in the first quarter of 2016 to increase borrowing capacity to $1.5 billion, extend the expiration to February 2021 and provide more favorable fees (as disclosed herein), bears interest based on the Companys credit ratings with the applicable interest rate on drawn amounts was LIBOR plus 137.5 basis points and the commitment fee on undrawn amounts was 17.5 basis points as of March 31, 2016. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of March 31, 2016, Moodys rating was Ba1 with an outlook of stable, S&Ps rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable and Fitchs rating was BBB- with an outlook of stable. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of March 31, 2016, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facility and outstanding debt, which was comprised of $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2018 that bear interest at 7.456%, $750 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2020 that bear interest at 5.95%, $500 million in registered senior unsecured notes due in August 2024 that bear interest at 4.5%, Euro 650 million of registered senior unsecured notes due in June 2022 that bear interest at 2.5% and $750 million of senior unsecured notes due in February 2026 that bear interest at 5.0%. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction, but we are liable for the full value of such transactions until the flights are completed. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant hotel business, we generally pay after the travelers use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. As long as the merchant hotel business grows, we expect that changes in working capital related to merchant hotel 38 Table of Contents transactions will positively impact operating cash flows. However, we are using both the merchant model and the agency model in many of our markets. If the merchant hotel model declines relative to our other business models that generally consume working capital such as agency hotel, managed corporate travel, advertising or certain Expedia Affiliate Network relationships, or if there are changes to the merchant model, supplier payment terms, or booking patterns that compress the time period between our receipt of cash from travelers and our payment to suppliers, such as with mobile bookings via smartphones, our overall working capital benefits could be reduced, eliminated or even reversed. Our future working capital benefits could also be impacted by the transition of our recent HomeAway acquisitions shift to more of a transactional model from a subscription model. As our ETP program continues to expand, and depending on relative traveler and supplier adoption rates and customer payment preferences, among other things, the scaling up of ETP has and will continue to negatively impact near term working capital cash balances, cash flow, relative liquidity during the transition, and hotel revenue margins. Seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings affect the timing of our annual cash flows. During the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern reverses and cash flows are typically negative. While we expect the impact of seasonal fluctuations to continue, merchant hotel growth rates, changes to the model or booking patterns, changes in the relative mix of merchant hotel transactions compared with transactions in our working capital consuming businesses, including ETP, as well as the assimilation and transformation of the HomeAway vacation rental listing business, may counteract or intensify the anticipated seasonal fluctuations. As of March 31, 2016, we had a deficit in our working capital of $3.2 billion, compared to a deficit of $2.9 billion as of December 31, 2015. The change in deficit is primarily due to use of cash for financing and investing activities, including share repurchases. We continue to invest in the development and expansion of our operations. Ongoing investments include but are not limited to improvements in infrastructure, which include our servers, networking equipment and software, release improvements to our software code, platform migrations and consolidation and search engine marketing and optimization efforts. Our future capital requirements may include capital needs for acquisitions (including purchases of non-controlling interest), share repurchases, dividend payments or expenditures in support of our business strategy; thus reducing our cash balance and/or increasing our debt. Our capital expenditures for full year 2016 are expected to be broadly in line with 2015 spending levels and are expected to include approximately $70 million related to the build out of our new corporate headquarters. The build out will continue through 2019 with more significant spend related to the project occurring in 2017 and 2018. Our cash flows are as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2016 2015 $ Change (In millions) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,099 $ 1,051 $ 48 Investing activities (159 ) (627 ) 468 Financing activities (604 ) (27 ) (577 ) Effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 51 (65 ) 116 For the three months ended March 31, 2016, net cash provided by operating activities increased by $48 million primarily due to increased benefits from working capital changes driven mostly from increases in deferred merchant bookings and deferred revenue and lower cash paid for taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in investing activities decreased by $468 million primarily due to a decrease of cash used for acquisitions of $326 million and lower net purchases of investments of $225 million, partially offset by higher capital expenditures of $75 million. 39 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2016, cash used in financing activities primarily included the repayment of $400 million of HomeAway Convertible Notes, cash paid to acquire shares of $187 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorizations discussed below, and $36 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $26 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in financing activities primarily included cash paid to acquire shares of $45 million and $23 million cash dividend payment, partially offset by $29 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. In 2012, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock. In February 2015, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized an additional repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, we repurchased, through open market transactions, 1.7 million and 0.5 million shares under these authorization for a total cost of $183 million and $45 million, excluding transaction costs. As of March 31, 2016, 9.6 million shares remain authorized for repurchase under these authorizations with no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Subsequent to the end of the first quarter of 2016, we repurchased an additional 1.2 million shares for a total cost of $129 million, excluding transaction costs, representing an average purchase price of $106.32 per share. In the first quarter 2016 and 2015, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared and we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 and $0.18 per share of outstanding common stock. In addition, in April 2016, the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.24 per share of outstanding common stock payable on June 16, 2016 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 26, 2016. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination of our Board of Directors. In connection with the acquisition of our majority ownership interest in trivago, we entered into a shareholders agreement with the minority shareholders that contains certain put/call rights whereby we may cause the minority shareholders to sell to us and the minority shareholders of trivago may cause us to acquire from them up to 50% and 100% of the shares of the company held by them at fair value during two windows, the first of which is currently open and we are in active conversations with the trivago minority shareholders. As of April 28, 2016, neither party has exercised its respective rights with respect to the current open window and we expect that the current discussions are likely to continue through June 2016. The second window opens in 2018. Our redeemable noncontrolling interest balance related to trivago was $665 million and $654 million as of March 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, which represents our best estimate of fair value. As we are currently in the first put/call window, it is important to note that based on the final negotiations, the negotiated fair market value and therefore the final redemption amount could materially differ from this estimate. The effect of foreign exchange on our cash balances denominated in foreign currency for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to the same period in 2015, showed a net change of $116 million reflecting appreciations in foreign currencies in the current year period compared to depreciations the prior year period. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost or availability of future borrowings, including refinancings, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Off-balance Sheet Arrangements There have been no material changes outside the normal course of business to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments since December, 31, 2015. Other than our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of March 31, 2016 or December 31, 2015. 40 Table of Contents Part I.