Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "indicates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There are many important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including the numerous factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that should be specifically considered. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We do not intend, and are under no duty, to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect actual results, future events or circumstances, or revised expectations. We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 4 Table of Contents Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Overview FactSet Research Systems Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or "FactSet") is a global financial data and analytics company with an open and flexible digital platform that drives the investment community to see more, think bigger, and do its best work. Our strategy is to build the leading open content and analytics platform to deliver a differentiated advantage for our clients success. For more than 40 years, the FactSet platform has delivered expansive data, sophisticated analytics, and flexible technology used by global financial professionals to power their critical investment workflows. As of August 31, 2022, we had more than 7,500 clients comprised of approximately 180,000 investment professionals, including asset managers, bankers, wealth managers, asset owners, channel partners, hedge funds, corporate users, private equity and venture capital professionals. Our on- and off-platform solutions span the investment lifecycle to include investment research, portfolio construction and analysis, trade execution, performance measurement, risk management and reporting. Our revenues are primarily derived from subscriptions to our multi-asset class data and solutions powered by our connected content ("content refinery"). Our products and services include workstations, portfolio analytics and enterprise solutions. We provide financial data and market intelligence on securities, companies, industries and people to enable our clients to research investment ideas, as well as to analyze, monitor and manage their portfolios. We combine dedicated client service with open and flexible technology offerings, including a configurable desktop and mobile platform, comprehensive data feeds, cloud-based digital solutions and application programming interfaces ("APIs"). Our CUSIP Global Services ("CGS") business supports security master files relied on by the investment industry for critical front, middle and back office functions. We drive our business based on our detailed understanding of our clients workflows, which helps us to solve their most complex challenges. We provide them with an open digital platform, connected and reliable data, next-generation workflow solutions and highly committed service specialists. We operate our business through three reportable segments: the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. Refer to Note 18, Segment Information , in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. For each of our reportable segments, we execute our strategy through three workflow solutions: Research & Advisory; Analytics & Trading; and Content & Technology Solutions ("CTS"). Corporate History FactSet was founded in 1978 and has been publicly traded since June 1996. We are dual-listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") under the symbol "FDS". Fiscal 2022 marked our 44th year of operations, and we continue to focus on providing integrated and connected content, best-in-class products and exceptional client service. Business Strategy As the needs of our clients evolve, they seek personalized and connected data, tools for multi-asset class investing, and reduced costs. Clients are also seeking cloud-based solutions, open and flexible systems, and increased efficiencies to support their digital transformations. Our strategy is to build the leading open content and analytics platform to deliver differentiated advantages for our clients success. To execute this strategy, we plan on: Growing our digital platform: We are scaling up our content refinery to offer a comprehensive and connected inventory of industry, proprietary, and third-party data for the financial community. This data includes granular data for key industry verticals, private companies, wealth management, real-time data, and environmental, social and governance data ("ESG"). We are driving personalized workflow solutions for financial professionals, including asset managers, bankers, wealth managers, asset owners, channel partners, hedge funds, corporate users and private equity and venture capital professionals. We offer an open ecosystem with solutions and content that is accessible and flexible through a myriad of delivery methods. Our goal is to deliver cloud-based data and analytics to our clients, enabling them to more efficiently manage their workflows. Delivering execution excellence: We are building an agile organization that accelerates product creation and content collection. We offer new products designed for delivery via the cloud, making them highly efficient for our clients. We will continue to employ technology to accelerate the pace of content collection and drive expertise in complex data sets such as private companies, ESG and deep sector. Additionally, we are improving our price realization through consistent packaging and internal governance. Driving a growth mindset: To drive sustainable growth, we are recruiting, training and empowering a diverse and operationally efficient workforce. As a performance-based culture, we are investing in talent that can create leading technological solutions and efficiently execute our strategy. We use partnerships and acquisitions to accelerate our growth in strategic areas. Our strategy centers on relentless focus on our clients and their FactSet experience. We aim to be a trusted partner and service provider, offering personalized digital products powered by cognitive computing to research ideas and uncover relevant insights. Additionally, we continually evaluate business opportunities such as partnerships and acquisitions to increase our capabilities and competitive differentiation. We are focused on growing our global business through three segments: the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. We believe this geographical strategic alignment helps us better manage our resources, target our solutions and interact with our clients. We further execute on our growth strategy by offering data, products, and analytical applications within our three workflow solutions: Research & Advisory; Analytics & Trading; and CTS. Research & Advisory Research & Advisory delivers essential content and workflow solutions in one flexible platform for investment bankers, wealth advisors, buy and sell-side analysts, corporate users, portfolio managers and investment relationship professionals. Our workstation, advisor dashboard, research management solutions (RMS), and FactSet for client relationship management (CRM) enable our clients to personalize and automate their workflows. These tools provide insight and efficiency for idea generation, company and market analysis, fundamental research, presentation building and distribution, and research management. Our Research & Advisory solutions also offer global coverage, deep history, and transparency through proprietary and third-party sourced databases. These solutions provide deep company and sector-specific analyses, spanning the public and private markets. Our solutions easily integrate with our clients technology, offering additional flexibility through mobile, API, and web-based components. Our RMS and advisory solutions also enable our wealth clients to provide market-leading support for their businesses, including home office, advisory, and client engagement work. Analytics & Trading Analytics & Trading provides solutions for institutional asset managers and asset owners across the investment portfolio lifecycle, connecting essential front and middle office investment functions. Our tools connect together fundamental and quantitative research, portfolio construction, order management and trade execution. These outputs can then tie into advanced portfolio attribution and performance measurement, risk management, and reporting functions. An open framework supports our proprietary and third-party models, connected data, analytics and reporting. Our platform and APIs can be deployed as an enterprise system that meets multi-asset class needs or as individual workflow components. Additionally, Analytics & Trading's tools can integrate client holdings data with global market data for fundamental and quantitative research, portfolio construction, and trade simulation. Our order management and trade execution solutions also efficiently connect to portfolio attribution and performance measurement requirements, risk management functions and reporting requirements. CTS CTS focuses on delivering data directly to our clients by leveraging our core content and technology. Clients can seamlessly discover, explore, and access organized and connected content via multiple delivery channels. Whether a client needs market data, company data, alternative data, customized client facing digital solutions or data elements uniquely identifying financial instruments, we provide structured data through a variety of technologies, including APIs and cloud infrastructures. Through our data management services (DMS), we provide entity mapping and integration of client data. Our symbology links and aggregates a diverse set of content sources to ensure consistency, transparency, and data integrity. We are the exclusive provider of the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures ("CUSIP") and CUSIP International Number System ("CINS") identifiers globally, acting as the official numbering agency for International Securities Identification Number ("ISIN") identifiers in the United States and as a substitute number agency for more than 35 other countries. By enabling our clients to utilize their preferred choice of cloud infrastructure and industry standard databases, programming languages and data visualization tools, we empower our clients to centralize, integrate, and analyze disparate data sources for faster and more cost-effective decision making. FactSet Clients Buy-side Buy-side clients continue to shift increasingly toward multi-asset class investment strategies and we are well-positioned to be a partner of choice in this space. Our ability to provide enterprise-wide solutions to our clients across their entire workflow, leveraging their portfolio data across multiple asset classes, enables us to compete for greater market share. Buy-side clients primarily include asset managers, wealth managers, asset owners, channel partners, hedge funds and corporate firms. They access our multi-asset class tools by utilizing our workstations, Analytics & Trading tools, proprietary and third-party content, data feeds, APIs and portfolio services. The buy-side organic annual subscription value ("Organic ASV") growth rate for fiscal 2022 was 8.5%. Buy-side clients accounted for 83% of our ASV as of August 31, 2022. Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Annual Subscription Value ("ASV") of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the definitions of Organic ASV. Sell-side We deliver comprehensive solutions to sell-side clients including workstation, data feeds, API's, proprietary and third-party content, productivity tools for Microsoft Office, web and mobile, and RMS for research authoring and publishing. Our focus remains on expanding the depth of content offered and increasing workflow efficiency for sell-side firms. These firms primarily include broker-dealers, private equity and venture capital, and banking and advisory firms. The sell-side Organic ASV growth rate for fiscal 2022 was 13.8%. Sell-side clients accounted for 17% of our ASV as of August 31, 2022. Client and User Additions Our total client count as of August 31, 2022 was 7,538, representing a net increase of 16.8%, or 1,085 clients in the last 12 months, mainly due to an increase in corporate clients, wealth management clients, and private equity and venture capital firms. The count includes clients with ASV of $10,000 and above. As of August 31, 2022, there were 179,982 professionals using FactSet, representing a net increase of 19,050 or 11.8% in the last 12 months, mainly driven by an increase in wealth advisory professionals from our wealth management clients, as well as an increase in sell-side users from our banking clients. Annual ASV retention was greater than 95% for the period ended August 31, 2022 and August 31, 2021. When expressed as a percentage of clients, annual retention increased to approximately 92% for the period ended August 31, 2022, compared with approximately 91% for the period ended August 31, 2021. Organic ASV plus Professional Services Growth As of August 31, 2022, our Organic ASV plus Professional Services totaled $1.8 billion, up 9.3% compared with August 31, 2021. Organic ASV increased across all our geographic segments with the majority of the increase related to the Americas, followed by EMEA and Asia Pacific. This increase was driven by additional sales in our workflow solutions, primarily in Research & Advisory and Analytics & Trading, followed by CTS. Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Annual Subscription Value ("ASV") of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the definitions of Organic ASV plus Professional Services. The following chart provides a snapshot of our historic Organic ASV plus Professional Services growth: (in millions) Financial Information on Geographic Areas Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise that have the following characteristics: (i) they engage in business activities from which they may earn revenues and incur expenses, (ii) their operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") for resource allocation decisions and performance assessment, and (iii) their discrete financial information is available. Our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") functions as our CODM. Our operating segments are consistent with our reportable segments ("segments") and how we, including our CODM, manage our business and the geographic markets in which we serve. Our internal financial reporting structure is based on three segments: the Americas; EMEA; and Asia Pacific. The Americas segment serves our clients throughout North, Central, and South America, with offices in 13 states throughout the United States ("U.S."), including our corporate headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, as well as an office in both Brazil and Canada. The EMEA segment serves our clients in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and maintains office locations in Bulgaria, England, France, Germany, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Arab Emirates . The Asia Pacific segment serves our clients in Asia and Australia and includes office locations in Australia, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR") of China, India, Japan, the Philippines, and Singapore. These offices exclude any leases that we have fully vacated in advance of their originally scheduled lease term. Segment revenues reflect sales to our clients based on the respective geographic locations. Each segment records expenses related to its individual operations with the exception of expenditures associated with our data centers, third-party data costs and corporate headquarters charges, which are recorded by the Americas segment and are not allocated to the other segments. The expenses incurred at our content collection centers, located in India, the Philippines, and Latvia, are allocated to each segment based on a percentage of revenues as this reflects the benefits provided to each segment. Refer to Note 18, Segment Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the results of operations and financial information for each of our segments. The following graphics illustrate revenues related to our segments. ( in millions) Human Capital Management Who We Are As of August 31, 2022, we had 39 offices across 20 countries with 11,203 employees, representing an increase of 2.9% in the last twelve months. Of our total employees, 7,401 (66%) were located in Asia Pacific, 2,400 (21%) in the Americas and 1,402 (13%) in EMEA. To optimize productivity, we have invested in expanding our footprint and talent pool in India and the Philippines, where we now have a combined workforce of approximately 7,100 employees. Functionally, 21% of our employees were in Sales and Client Solutions; 29% were in Technology & Product Development; 45% were in Content Operations; and 5% were in Corporate Support. As of August 31, 2022, 393 of our employees were represented by mandatory works councils within certain of our French and German subsidiaries and 24 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements in the United States. Our Purpose and Values Our purpose is to drive the investment community to see more, think bigger, and do their best work. Intense client focus and support are critical components of our strategy and operational approach. Our employees are key to our success and enable us to execute at a high level. We have built a collaborative culture that recognizes and rewards innovation and offers employees a variety of opportunities and experiences. We believe that our continued focus on making our employees a top priority helps us provide high quality insights and information to clients globally. Employee Engagement We conduct an annual, anonymous and confidential global employee engagement survey administered by a third party to capture our employees constructive feedback on a broad range of topics. The survey's scores and comments provide insight on appropriate actions to improve our employees experience and overall effectiveness as an organization. Aggregated survey results are reviewed by executive and senior leadership and direct managers to analyze and identify company-wide and individual operational unit focus areas and action plans for improvement. We share survey results throughout our company to highlight areas that employees believe are our strengths and reflect on areas where employees feel there are opportunities for positive change. Progress on initiatives is tracked to ensure that the actions taken address the underlying issues and promote an environment of continuous improvement. In our fiscal 2022 employee engagement survey, we achieved an 89% response rate, indicating that we heard from the vast majority of our employees. This strong response rate reflected stable engagement amidst ongoing challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We received more than 8,700 comments in response to the survey. Our highest scores were in the areas of fair treatment, authenticity, and inclusion, indicating that employees feel they are treated fairly, are comfortable being their authentic selves at work, and believe that diverse perspectives are valued at our Company. Our scores increased from the previous year's survey in the areas of authenticity, work-life balance, and employees feeling satisfied with the recognition they receive for their work. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion As part of our core values, we are committed to advancing Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DE&I") at every level. To this end, we have developed a global DE&I strategy focusing on three impact areas: workforce, marketplace, and society. We are proud of the positive progress we have made in each of these areas as we deepen our DE&I commitment around the world. DE&I at our Company has been governed by our DE&I Council, which we refreshed in 2022. The Council is chaired by our CEO, Phil Snow, and consists of 13 senior leaders who are empowered to drive our DE&I progress. As part of this visible leadership commitment, we signed the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge, joining more than 2,000 companies actively supporting more inclusive workplaces and communities. We have also partnered with MLT Black Equity at Work to hold ourselves accountable for our DE&I progress. Workforce During fiscal 2022, we accelerated our accountability efforts by continuing to embed DE&I into our talent processes, including performance reviews, promotions, and the allocation of equity awards. This allows us to make a greater impact while investigating statistical differences and taking any resulting appropriate action. We also continue to publish our workforce demographics, including our annual EEO-1 Federal data, in our Sustainability Report. By reporting our workforce demographics, we make a visible step in our DE&I commitment as we aspire to change the composition of our employee demographics to better include underrepresented groups. Our goals include increasing the percentage of women at our Company overall, and specifically the percentage of women in our leadership group (vice president level and above) and in our technical areas. We report on our progress annually to increase transparency and to facilitate accountability. We are building a culture of sponsorship across the organization to proactively provide growth opportunities and enhance retention through an initiative connecting senior leaders with underrepresented talent for advocacy and visibility. As we continue to diversify our talent pipelines, we have maintained our MESH (Mentor, Engage, Support & Hire) externship program for underrepresented college students interested in financial technology. This program continued for the second year in the U.S. and was launched for the first time in the U.K. In addition, we piloted an internship program at Norwalk Community College, located near our corporate headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, to provide career pathways for computer science students. As a key component of our drive to ensure fair and equitable administration of pay, in fiscal 2022 we completed a global pay equity review. We engaged an outside firm to assess the degree of systemic gender equity in the salaries of our employees worldwide and the degree of systemic race/ethnicity equity in the U.S. After controlling for various salary-influencing factors, the study found that there was not a statistically significant association at our Company between salary and gender worldwide, or between salary and race/ethnicity in the U.S. The study found that, on a global basis at our Company, women are paid more than 99% on average of what men are paid and that, on a U.S. basis, minority employees are paid 100% on average of what non-minority employees are paid. Attention to pay equity will continue to be a DE&I priority. Our Business Resource Groups ("BRGs") are a critical component in fostering an inclusive work environment for all employees. Our BRGs (Asian BRG, Black BRG, Families BRG, Pride BRG, Multicultural BRG, Latinx BRG, Womens BRG, and Veterans BRG) host a variety of educational, informational, and aspirational events, including business networking opportunities, and heritage months. Our BRGs also host many co-sponsored external events and year-round engagement such as community events, expos, seminars, and summits. In addition, our senior leaders serve as executive sponsors for our BRGs to demonstrate leadership support for these efforts. To recognize the significant contributions of our BRGs, we have launched the BRG Recognition Program which provides equity awards to BRG leaders at the co-chair level and steering committee level who have gone above and beyond in their commitment to DE&I at our Company. BRG Steering Committee leaders also have a 10% weighting of their overall review evaluation based upon their BRG leadership to elevate these contributions within their performance. To further our efforts in building an inclusive workplace where all employees feel a sense of belonging, we have launched the Global Gender Inclusivity policy that supports and respects the rights and identities of all employees, and we have achieved a 100% score on the Human Rights Campaign Equality Index for seven consecutive years. Inclusive education also continues to be a priority through the provision of a variety of educational opportunities such as Conscious Inclusion training, the Interfaith Education series, Racial Justice Allies, and Unconscious Bias training. In addition, we have rolled out NameCoach, a name pronunciation tool. Marketplace During fiscal 2022, we created a Supplier Diversity function and are currently performing an audit of minority-owned spend and suppliers to assist in setting future goals. We have extended our DE&I programming and events to spread inclusivity and global influence, as well as embedding a multi-level culture of sponsorship through external organizations to help provide learning opportunities, enhance retention, and intentionally support our DE&I goals. Society In addition to signing the CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Pledge, we sponsored two employees to participate full-time in the CEO Action for Racial Equity Fellowship. This hands-on contribution has allowed us to take an active part in advancing policy change in the U.S. We are also going further to help strengthen and promote racial justice through economic opportunities, such as depositing funds during fiscal 2022 in a Black equity-focused financial institution, as a step toward creating real and tangible change in the communities in which we operate. How We Work Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, our highest priority concern has been the health and safety of our employees, our families and our communities. We initially required the vast majority of our employees at our offices across the globe to work remotely and provided them with support to be able to ensure business continuity. We increased the frequency of all-company meetings led by our CEO and offered extensive benefit resources and mental health support. Employees were offered additional paid time off for COVID-19 illness and family care and to receive and recover from COVID-19 vaccinations. We have since re-opened our offices and welcomed our employees back. Our offices did not re-open until local authorities permitted us to do so and our own criteria and conditions to ensure employees health and safety were satisfied. In fiscal 2022, based on our success working in a remote environment during the COVID-19 pandemic, we rolled out our "How We Work" guide to flexible working arrangements under which employees in many of our locations, where permitted by local laws and regulations, and where the role permits, have the opportunity to choose between different work arrangements, including the ability to work in the office, remotely or in a hybrid arrangement with the ability to split time between working remotely and in the office. Additionally, employees whose positions are not aligned to fixed working hours may elect to work a flextime schedule, working the same number of hours as is considered standard in their office location or employment contract, but during different times in the working day. We have found that these new standards support our employees in being their most productive selves at work and in their personal lives. These arrangements preserve the benefit of flexibility while retaining talent, fostering creativity, innovation, collaboration, and enabling mentorship, all key drivers behind employees productivity, satisfaction, and success. Furthermore, these provisions support our commitment to creating a diverse, equitable, and inclusive workplace, removing barriers to augment our opportunity to attract and retain talent. Learning & Development We are lifelong learners. We believe that learning and development emboldens our employees, fosters outperformance with a growth mindset, demonstrates our commitment to our core values, and contributes to the success of our culture and business. During fiscal 2022, we significantly increased our asynchronous learning opportunities in a variety of areas. We expanded our resources and built multiple learning paths to ensure our engineers have access to the best online learning resources on cutting-edge technologies. Our new Industry Development Program (IDP) is a 40-hour, on-demand program designed to onboard industry hires who have business experience and a sales focus. We also released career development resources which provide employees with access to tools such as Career Progression Plans, curated Skill Taxonomies, and relevant eLearning courses. In addition to our expanded partnerships and targeted programs, we created hundreds of in-house eLearning courses to help our employees learn about our business, industry, clients and products. This year we also re-initiated in-person learning programs, hosting our campus onboarding programs for Sales and Engineering staff in three global locations: Manila, London, and Norwalk. We also invited all campus hires who joined our Company since March 2020 back to our regional headquarters for a two-day summit focused on network building and our core values. We also conducted a shorter, topic-focused survey toward the end of fiscal 2022 to assess the impact of our Learning & Development strategy and programs on employee engagement. We achieved a 61% response rate, with more than 2,300 comments received. Our highest scores indicated that we are actively supporting employee efforts to acquire additional training and experiences and we are supporting employees to develop the professional skills needed to succeed at their jobs. Survey data also showed that we are providing opportunities for employees to have meaningful discussions with management about career development. Compensation, Benefits and Wellbeing We offer our employees a broad range of competitive compensation, benefits and wellbeing programs designed to meet the diverse needs of our global employee population and which are reflective of our values and culture. Offering competitive. performance-focused compensation is essential to our talent strategies regarding recruitment, development, and retention. Programs are designed to be competitive in the markets in which we compete for talent and align with the short and long-term objectives of our Company and our individual business units. Our employee compensation may include one or more of the following elements: base salaries, annual incentive awards, sales incentive awards, and equity awards. We differentiate individual salary, bonus and equity awards based on performance against key objectives and how effectively our managers and employees demonstrate behaviors consistent with our values and culture. We are committed to offering high-quality, affordable, locally competitive benefits options designed to meet the needs of our employees and their families and to support our employees physical, emotional, financial, and social wellbeing at every stage of life. Employees in all our locations globally have access to an Employee Assistance Program, providing them and their immediate family members access to experienced counselors for personal and professional support. In addition to offering access to professional counseling services, we provide our employees and families with education and resources. We provide regular updates on health coverage and resources available through our health plans. We are committed to building a culture of wellbeing that empowers employees to be their authentic selves and thrive in all areas of their lives. We believe that wellbeing is a unique journey, and we are invested in understanding the needs of every individual to m eet them where they are. By enabling our employees to put their wellbeing first, they can be their best selves at home, work, and anywhere in between. Third-Party Content We aggregate content from third-party data suppliers, news sources, exchanges, brokers and contributors into our dedicated managed databases, which our clients access through our flexible delivery platforms to perform their analysis. We seek to maintain contractual relationships with a minimum of two content providers for each major type of financial data, though certain data sets on which we rely have a limited number of suppliers. We make every effort to assure that, where reasonable, alternative sources are available. We have entered into third-party content agreements of varying lengths, which in some cases can be terminated with one years notice, at predefined dates, and in other cases on shorter notice. We are not dependent on any one third-party data supplier in order to meet the needs of our clients, with only two data suppliers each representing more than 10% of our total data costs for the twelve months ended August 31, 2022. Data Centers and Cloud Computing Our business is dependent on our ability to process substantial volumes of data and transactions rapidly and efficiently on our networks and systems. Our global technology infrastructure supports our operations and is designed to facilitate reliable and efficient processing and delivery of data and analytics to our clients. As part of our hybrid cloud strategy, we operate two fully redundant, physically separated data centers in the U.S. that provide client services, while also utilizing premier, market-leading cloud providers to run products and services that best benefit from cloud elasticity, resiliency, security, and regionalization. We currently use multiple providers of cloud services, however one supplier provided the majority of our cloud computing support for the twelve months ended August 31, 2022. Our physical data centers contain multiple layers of redundancy to enhance system performance, including maintaining, processing and storing data at multiple locations. In the event of a single site failure or localized disaster, client workloads will automatically move to unaffected sites. We continue to be focused on maintaining a global technological infrastructure that allows us to support our growing business. The Competitive Landscape We are a part of the financial information services industry, providing financial data, analytics and workflow solutions to the global investment community. This competitive market is comprised of both large, well-capitalized companies and smaller, niche firms including market data suppliers, news and information providers, and many third-party content providers that supply us with financial information included in our products. Our largest competitors are Bloomberg L.P., Refinitiv (a London Stock Exchange Group business) and Market Intelligence (an S&P Global business). Other competitors and competitive products include online database suppliers and integrators and their applications, such as BlackRock Solutions, Morningstar Inc. and MSCI Inc. Many of these firms provide products or services similar to our own offerings. We believe there are high barriers to entry and we expect it would be difficult for another vendor to quickly replicate the extensive data we currently offer. Through our in-depth analytics and client service, we believe we can offer clients a more comprehensive solution with one of the broadest sets of functionalities delivered through a desktop or mobile user interface, cloud based platforms, or through standardized or bespoke data feeds, as well as APIs. In addition, our applications and client support and service offerings are entrenched in the workflow of many financial professionals given the data management and portfolio analysis/screening capabilities offered. We are entrusted with significant amounts of our clients' own proprietary data, including portfolio holdings. As a result, we believe our products are central to our clients investment analysis and decision-making. Intellectual Property We have registered trademarks and copyrights for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, clients, data suppliers and vendors. We seek to protect our workflow solutions, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws. While we do not believe we are dependent on any one of our intellectual property rights, we do rely on the combination of intellectual property rights and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. Research & Product Development Costs A key aspect of our growth strategy is to offer new solutions and enhance our existing products and applications by making them faster, with more reliable and greater depth of data. We strive to rapidly adopt new technology that can improve our products and services. Government Regulation We are subject to reporting requirements, disclosure obligations and other recordkeeping requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the various local authorities that regulate each location in which we operate. Our P.A.N. Securities, LP subsidiary is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and is a registered broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. P.A.N. Securities, LP, as a registered broker-dealer, is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires that we maintain minimum net capital requirements. We claim exemption under Rule 15c3-3(k)(2)(i). Corporate Contact Information FactSet was founded as a Delaware corporation in 1978, and our principal executive office is in Norwalk, Connecticut. Mailing address of FactSet's headquarters: 45 Glover Avenue, Norwalk, CT 06850 Telephone number: +1 (203) 810-1000 Website address: www.factset.com Available Information Through the Investor Relations section of our website (https://investor.factset.com), we make available free of charge the following filings as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements for the annual stockholder meetings, Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Additionally, we broadcast our quarterly earnings calls live via the investor relations section of our website. We also provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including investor events and press and earnings releases on our investor relations website. The contents of this website section are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC and any reference to this section of our website is intended to be inactive textual references only. Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows our current executive officers: Name of Officer Age Office Held with FactSet Officer Since F. Philip Snow 58 Chief Executive Officer 2014 Linda S. Huber 64 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2021 Rachel R. Stern 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary 2009 Robert J. Robie 44 Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Trading Solutions 2018 Helen L. Shan 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer 2018 Daniel Viens 65 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2018 Goran Skoko 61 Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific, Head of Research & Advisory Solutions 2019 Kristina W. Karnovsky 43 Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer 2021 Jonathan Reeve 54 Executive Vice President, Head of Content & Technology Solutions 2021 John Costigan 53 Executive Vice President, Chief Content Officer 2022 Katherine M. Stepp 37 Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer 2022 F. Philip Snow Chief Executive Officer . Mr. Snow was named Chief Executive Officer effective July 1, 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Snow held the title of President. He began his career at FactSet in 1996 as a Consultant, before moving to Asia to hold positions in the Tokyo and Sydney offices. Following his move back to the U.S. in 2000, Mr. Snow held various sales leadership roles prior to assuming the role of Senior Vice President, Director of U.S. Investment Management Sales in 2013. Mr. Snow received a Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley and a Master of International Management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management. He has earned the right to use the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. Linda S. Huber Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Huber was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of FactSet in October 2021. As Chief Financial Officer, she is responsible for FactSets global finance organization and oversees all financial functions, including accounting, corporate development, financial planning and analysis, treasury, tax, and investor relations. Prior to joining FactSet, Ms. Huber served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer at MSCI Inc. Prior to joining MSCI, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Moodys Corporation from May 2005 to June 2018. Earlier in her career, Ms. Huber served in several increasingly senior roles in financial services, including Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc.; Managing Director at Freeman & Co.; Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development and Vice President and Assistant Treasurer at PepsiCo.; Vice President of Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Co.; and Associate in the Natural Resources Group at The First Boston Corp. Ms. Huber also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army. Ms. Huber earned an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and a B.S. degree in business and economics from Lehigh University. Rachel R. Stern Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary. Ms. Stern was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary in October 2018. In addition to her role in the Legal Department, Ms. Stern is also responsible for Compliance, Facilities Management and Real Estate Planning and the administration of our offices in Hyderabad, Manila and Riga. Ms. Stern joined FactSet in January 2001 as General Counsel. Ms. Stern is admitted to practice in New York, Washington D.C., and as House Counsel in Connecticut. Ms. Stern received a Bachelor of Arts from Yale University, a Master of Arts from the University of London and a Juris Doctor from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Robert J. Robie Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Trading Solutions. Mr. Robie was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Tradition Solutions in September 2018. In his current role, he oversees strategy, research, development and engineering for Analytics & Trading platforms. Mr. Robie joined FactSet in July 2000 as a Product Sales Specialist. During his tenure at FactSet, Mr. Robie has held several positions of increased responsibility, including Senior Director of Analytics and Director of Global Fixed Income. Although Mr. Robie joined FactSet in 2000, he did work at BTN Partners from 2004 through 2005 in their quantitative portfolio management and performance division, before returning to continue his career with FactSet. Mr. Robie holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Fine Arts from Beloit College. Helen L. Shan Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer. Ms. Shan was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer effective May 3, 2021. As the Chief Revenue Officer, she is responsible for driving revenue growth by managing global sales, client solutions, marketing and media relations. Ms. Shan joined FactSet as Chief Financial Officer in September 2018 where she oversaw all financial functions at FactSet. Prior to that, she was at Marsh McLennan Companies, where she served in a variety of roles, including as the company's Corporate Treasurer and also as Chief Financial Officer for Mercer, a professional services firm where she was responsible for global financial reporting and performance, operational finance, investments, and corporate strategy. Preceding that, Ms. Shan also served as the Vice President and Treasurer for Pitney Bowes Inc. and served as a Managing Director at J.P. Morgan. In September 2018, Ms. Shan joined the Board of Directors of EPAM Systems Inc., a global provider of digital platform engineering and software development services. Ms. Shan holds dual degrees with a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Applied Science from t he University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School of Business and School of Applied Science and Engineering. Ms. Shan also has a Master of Business Administration from Cornell Universitys SC Johnson College of Business. Daniel Viens Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Viens was appointed Executive Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer in October 2021. Mr. Viens joined FactSet in September 1998 as a Vice President, Director of Human Resources and has held several leadership positions of increased responsibility in Human Resources. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Viens was a Director of Human Resources for First Data Solutions and Donnelly Marketing (a former company of Dun & Bradstreet), where he developed significant Human Resources acumen. Mr. Viens graduated from Boston University, and holds both a Master's Degree from Eastern Illinois University in Clinical Psychology and a Master of Business Administration from Columbia University. Goran Skoko Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific, Head of Research & Advisory Solutions. Mr. Skoko was appointed Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Research & Advisory Solutions in July 2021. In his current role, Mr. Skoko is responsible for providing direction to address the product and content needs for EMEA and Asia Pacific clients while also focusing on increased deployment and building community with our Research & Advisory Solutions. Prior to that, Mr. Skoko was Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Wealth Solutio ns. He joined FactSet in 2004 as a Senior Product developer and has held a number of positions of increased responsibility. Prior to FactSet, he spent 16 years in various engineering and product management roles at Thomson Financial. Mr. Skoko earned his B.S. in Physics and Computer Science from Fordham University. Kristina W. Karnovsky Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer. Ms. Karnovsky was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer in July 2021. In her current role she works across the entire product portfolio to deliver a differentiated advantage for clients and support their success. Prior to this role, Ms. Karnovsky was Head of Research Solutions. Ms. Karnovsky joined FactSet in 2001 as a Consultant and spent over a decade building FactSet's sell-side business in Sales leadership roles. Ms. Karnovsky earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Scranton. Jonathan Reeve Executive Vice President, Head of Content & Technology Solutions. Mr. Reeve was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of CTS at FactSet in October 2021. As Head of CTS, he oversees and leads the development of FactSets off-platform products, including financial data solutions, application technologies, CUSIP Global Services, and the delivery of FactSet proprietary and third-party content over our data feeds, APIs, Open FactSet Marketplace, and cloud-delivery solutions. Mr. Reeve joined FactSet in April 2020 as Senior Vice President and Head of Content & Technology Solutions. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Reeve led Connectivity, Feeds and Desktop Businesses at Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). Earlier in his career, he held various positions at S&P Global, including Chief Data Officer and Head of Product & Content for the S&P Market Intelligence Division. Mr. Reeve earned a B.A. in Economics from Concordia University in Montreal. John Costigan Executive Vice President, Chief Content Officer. Mr. Costigan was appointed Chief Content Officer of FactSet in April 2022. As Chief Content Officer, he is responsible for FactSet's enterprise-wide Content Strategy and leads Content Development from planning through production. This includes Content's Digital Transformation using modern techniques and technology to drive timeliness, accuracy, coverage, consistency and usability across all FactSet Content assets. Mr. Costigan has been at FactSet since September 2007 in a variety of roles. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Costigan served as Vice President, Product Management at Thomson Financial, and spent 11 years in a variety of Product Management roles at First Call, Autex, ILX, and Tradeweb. Mr. Costigan earned a bachelor's degree in Economics from St. Michael's College. Katherine M. Stepp Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer. Ms. Stepp was appointed Chief Technology Officer, effective September 1, 2022. As Chief Technology Officer, she is responsible for leading FactSet's technology organization and overseeing its digital transformation strategy. Ms. Stepp joined FactSet in 2008 and previously served as Senior Director of Product Management within FactSet's Research and Advisory workflow solutions business. Prior to that role, she was Senior Director of Engineering within FactSet's Research workflow solutions business. Ms. Stepp holds a B.S. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. Additional Information Additional information with respect to our business is included in the following pages and is incorporated herein by reference: Page(s) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 21