Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "indicates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There are many important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including the numerous factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that should be specifically considered. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We do not intend, and are under no duty, to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect actual results, future events or circumstances, or revised expectations. We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 4 Table of Contents Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Corporate History FactSet Research Systems Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or "FactSet") was founded in 1978 and has been publicly traded since June 1996. We are dual-listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") under the symbol "FDS". FactSet has been a member of the S&P 500 since December 2021. Business Overview FactSet is a global financial digital platform and enterprise solutions provider with open and flexible technologies that aims to supercharge financial intelligence. Our platform delivers expansive data, sophisticated analytics, and flexible technology used by global financial professionals to power their critical investment workflows. As of August 31, 2024, we had more than 8,200 clients comprised of over 216,000 investment professionals, including institutional asset managers, bankers, wealth managers, asset owners, partners, hedge funds, corporate users, and private equity and venture capital professionals. Our revenues are primarily derived from subscriptions to our multi-asset class data and solutions powered by our connected data and technology platform. Our products and services include workstations, portfolio analytics and enterprise data solutions. We also offer managed services that operate as an extension of our clients' internal teams to support data, performance, risk and reporting workflows. We drive our business based on detailed understanding of our clients workflows, which helps us to solve their most complex challenges. We provide financial data and market intelligence on securities, companies, industries and people to enable our clients to research investment ideas and analyze, monitor and manage their portfolios. Our solutions span the investment lifecycle of investment research, portfolio construction and analysis, trade execution, performance measurement, risk management and reporting. We provide open and flexible technology offerings, including a configurable desktop and mobile platform, comprehensive data feeds, cloud-based digital solutions, and application programming interfaces ("APIs"). The CUSIP Global Services ("CGS") business supports security master files relied on by the investment industry for critical front, middle and back-office functions. All of our platforms and solutions are supported by our dedicated client service team. We operate our business through three reportable segments ("segments"): the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. During fiscal 2024, we revised our internal organization within each segment to offer data, products and analytical applications by firm type: Institutional Buyside, Dealmakers, Wealth, and Partnerships and CGS. We believe organization by firm type better aligns with our clients, the long-term view of our business and our commitment to investing for growth and efficiency. As our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") continues to review our business and operating results based on our segments, the realignment of our internal organization by firm type did not impact our segments for fiscal 2024. Refer to Part II, Item 8. Note 18, Segment Information, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on our segments and CODM. Segments Our segment revenues are based on the geographic region where the sale originated: Americas: The Americas segment primarily sells to clients in North, Central and South America. In the Americas, we have offices in nine states in the United States ("U.S."), including our corporate headquarters located in Norwalk, Connecticut. Additionally, we have data centers in two states in the U.S. and an office in each of Brazil and Canada. Revenues from the Americas represented 64% of total revenues during fiscal 2024. 5 Table of Contents EMEA: The EMEA segment primarily sells to clients in Europe, the Middle East and Africa via offices in Bulgaria, England, France, Germany, Italy, Ireland, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Arab Emirates. Revenues from EMEA represented 26% of total revenues during fiscal 2024. Asia Pacific: The Asia Pacific segment primarily sells to clients in Asia and Australasia via office locations in Australia, China, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region ("SAR") of China, India, Japan, the Philippines and Singapore. Revenues from Asia Pacific represented 10% of total revenues during fiscal 2024. Firm Types Institutional Buyside Institutional Buyside offers multi-asset class solutions to global asset managers, asset owners and hedge fund professionals across the investment portfolio lifecycle. This firm type includes workflows for research analysts, portfolio managers, and traders in the front office, as well as performance analysts, risk managers, and client service and marketing professionals in the middle office. Our front office on-platform solutions are designed for portfolio construction, research management, order management, and trade execution capabilities. Our middle office on-platform solutions are designed for performance measurement, attribution, risk management, and reporting capabilities, and are complimented by our middle office managed services. In addition to our on-platform workstation offerings, we offer comprehensive off-platform data and technology solutions including data feeds, APIs, and programmatic access for clients to engage with us in the environment best suited to them. Dealmakers Dealmakers delivers workflow solutions for investment bankers, sell-side research analysts, corporate users, investor relations officers, and private equity and venture capital professionals. We provide comprehensive solutions to our clients including workstations, data feeds, APIs, proprietary and third-party data, and productivity tools for Microsoft Office. We also deliver firm type tailored solutions for client relationship management ("CRM") and research management solutions ("RMS") for research authoring and publishing. Our tools are used to monitor investments, generate ideas, analyze companies and markets, perform fundamental research, and build and distribute presentations. We offer global coverage of public and private markets, granular industry metrics, deep history, and transparency through proprietary and third-party sourced databases. Wealth Wealth delivers comprehensive solutions to wealth management clients including our web-based workstation, book-of-business dashboards for advisors, data feeds, APIs, proprietary and third-party data, and productivity tools for Microsoft Office. It also provides RMS for research authoring and publishing. Our Wealth solution enables our clients to easily integrate our products into their CRM software and internally developed applications. Wealth clients use our advisory tools to provide support for their businesses, including home office, advisory, and client engagement work. We continue to focus on expanding our relevant data offerings and increasing workflow efficiency for wealth management firms. Partnerships and CGS Partnerships delivers solutions such as data and technology solutions (including feeds and APIs), workstations, and digital or analytics solutions to firms in the financial services ecosystem includingdata, analytics and technology platform providers. CGS is the exclusive issuer of CUSIP and CINS identifiers globally. CGS also acts as the official numbering agency for International Securities Identification Number ("ISIN") identifiers in the United States and as a substitute ISIN agency for more than 30 other countries. Business Strategy We strive to be a trusted enterprise partner and service provider to our clients across the financial services spectrum, delivering relevant intelligence, insights and execution solutions tailored to our clients business models. We are focused on growing our global business through three strategically aligned geographic segments: the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. This approach allows us to better manage resources, target solutions and interact with clients effectively. 6 Table of Contents To execute our strategy, we are focused on three core pillars and primary areas of investment: Expanding our data offerings: We continue to scale up our data ecosystem to provide a comprehensive inventory of industry, proprietary and third-party data. This includes granular data for key industry verticals, real-time market data, fund data and sustainable finance. We believe that our breadth of high-quality, connected data will serve as critical raw material for large language models. In addition to using our growing data catalog to power our AI-powered workstation products, we aim to continue to expand our data delivery capabilities in the cloud and through other methods to advance our position as an enterprise data provider for our clients. Embedding deeper in client workflows: Through continued innovation, we aim to deepen our integration into our clients' workflows. We are focused on expanding further into the buy-side front office by leveraging our expertise in portfolio performance, analytics, and risk management. In addition, we are building on our strong presence on advisor desktops by expanding into prospecting and digital reporting workflows. We are also working to introduce next-generation automation in research, financial modeling, and pitch creation. Innovating with AI: Our artificial intelligence roadmap, driven by our FactSet AI Blueprint, continues to resonate with our clients. We recently launched new AI-powered solutions for generating portfolio performance commentary, analyzing earnings call transcripts, and requesting FactSet data using natural language queries in client-built environments and chatbots. We believe that our pragmatic, open and flexible approach to leveraging AI to enhance our clients workflows will differentiate FactSet from our competitors and drive growth. Revenues and Annual Subscription Value ("ASV") The majority of our revenues are derived from client access to our multi-asset solutions powered by our platform of connected data and technology that is available over the contractual term. We offer expansive data, sophisticated analytics, and flexible technology through our platform. We believe ASV reflects our ability to grow recurring revenues and generate positive cash flows, and thus serves as a key indicator of the successful execution of our business strategy. ASV at any point in time represents our forward-looking revenues for the next 12 months from all subscription services currently being supplied to clients. Organic ASV represents ASV excluding ASV from acquisitions and dispositions within the last 12 months and the effects of foreign currency movements. FactSet Clients and Users We had 8,217 clients and 216,381 professionals using FactSet as of August 31, 2024. Our client count includes clients with ASV of $10,000 and above. For the year ended August 31, 2024, annual ASV retention was greater than 95% and, when expressed as a percentage of clients, annual retention was approximately 90%. Buy-side Buy-side clients continue to shift toward multi-asset class investment strategies and investing in their front- and middle office solutions, where we are well-positioned to be a partner of choice. We are able to compete for greater market share given our ability to provide enterprise-wide solutions to our clients by leveraging their portfolio data for multiple asset classes. Buy-side clients primarily include institutional asset managers, wealth managers, asset owners, partners, hedge funds and corporate clients. These clients access our multi-asset class tools through our workstations, analytics and trading tools, proprietary and third-party content, data feeds, APIs and portfolio services. Buy-side clients accounted for approximately 82% of our Organic ASV as of August 31, 2024. Sell-side We deliver comprehensive solutions to sell-side clients including workstation, data feeds, APIs, proprietary and third-party content, productivity tools for Microsoft Office, web and mobile, and RMS for research authoring and publishing. Our focus remains on expanding the depth of content offered and increasing workflow efficiency for sell-side firms. These firms primarily include broker-dealers, banking and advisory firms, and private equity and venture capital firms. Sell-side clients accounted for approximately 18% of our Organic ASV as of August 31, 2024. 7 Table of Contents Third-Party Content We aggregate content from third-party data suppliers, news sources, exchanges, brokers and contributors into our dedicated managed databases, which our clients access through our flexible delivery platforms. We seek to maintain contractual relationships with a minimum of two content providers for each major type of financial data, though certain data sets on which we rely have a limited number of suppliers. We make every effort to assure that, where reasonable, alternative sources are available. We have entered into third-party content agreements of varying lengths, which in some cases can be terminated with one years notice, at predefined dates, and in other cases on shorter notice. We are not dependent on any one third-party data supplier to meet the needs of our clients, with only two data suppliers each representing more than 10% of our total data costs during fiscal 2024. Data Centers and Cloud Computing Our business is dependent on our ability to process substantial volumes of data and transactions rapidly and efficiently on our networks and systems. Our global technology infrastructure supports our operations and is designed to facilitate reliable and efficient processing and delivery of data and analytics to our clients. As part of our hybrid cloud strategy, we operate two fully redundant, physically separated data centers in the U.S. that provide client services, while also using market-leading cloud providers to run products and services to best benefit from the cloud's elasticity, resiliency, security, and regionalization. We currently use several cloud providers; however, one supplier provided the majority of our cloud computing support for fiscal 2024. Our physical data centers provide layers of redundancy to enhance system performance, including maintaining, processing and storing data at multiple locations. In the event of a single site failure or localized disaster, client workloads will automatically move to unaffected sites. We continue to focus on maintaining a global technological infrastructure that allows us to support our growing business. Intellectual Property We have registered trademarks and copyrights for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, clients, data suppliers and vendors. We strive to protect our workflow solutions, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws. While we do not believe we are dependent on any one of our intellectual property rights, we do rely on the combination of intellectual property rights and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. Research and Product Development Costs A key aspect of our growth strategy is to offer new solutions and enhance our existing products by making them faster and more robust with deeper data and insights. We strive to rapidly adopt new technology that can improve the discoverability and usability of our products and services. The Competitive Landscape We are a part of the financial information services industry focused on delivering expansive data, sophisticated analytics, and flexible technology through our platform to the global investment community. We offer clients comprehensive solutions with a broad set of products delivered through a desktop or mobile user interface, cloud-based platforms, or through standardized or bespoke data feeds, as well as APIs. In addition, our applications and client support and service offerings are entrenched in the workflow of many financial professionals given the data management and portfolio analysis and screening capabilities offered. We are entrusted with significant amounts of our clients' own proprietary data, including portfolio holdings. As a result, we believe our products are central to our clients investment analysis, decision-making and operations. We expect it would be difficult for another vendor to quickly replicate the extensive data we currently offer, therefore, we believe there are high barriers to entry to our business. Our current competitive market is comprised of both large, well-capitalized companies and smaller, niche firms including market data suppliers, news and information providers, and many third-party content providers that supply us with financial information included in our products. Our largest competitors are Bloomberg L.P., S&P's Market Intelligence division, and London Stock Exchange Group's ("LSEG's") Data & Analytics division (formerly known as Refinitiv). Other competitors and competitive products include online database suppliers and integrators and their applications, such as BlackRock Aladdin, MSCI Inc. and Morningstar Inc. Many of these firms provide products or services similar to our offerings. 8 Table of Contents Human Capital Management Our employees are key to our success and enable us to execute at a high level. We have built a collaborative culture that recognizes and rewards innovation and offers employees a variety of opportunities and experiences. We believe that our continued focus on our employees helps us to provide high quality products and service to our clients. Our Employees As of August 31, 2024, we had 35 offices in 20 countries with 12,398 employees, representing an increase of 1.3% compared with August 31, 2023. Of our total employees, 8,632 (70%) were located in Asia Pacific, 2,367 (19%) in the Americas and 1,399 (11%) in EMEA. We continue to invest in our centers of excellence ("COEs"), primarily located in India and the Philippines, which accounted for approximately 69% of our employees. Functionally, as of August 31, 2024, 48% of our employees were in Content Operations, 27% were in Technology and Product Development, 21% were in Sales and Client Solutions and 4% were in Corporate Support. As of August 31, 2024, 433 of our employees were represented by mandatory works councils in our French and German locations and 24 of our employees were represented by collective bargaining agreements in the United States. Employee Engagement In line with our commitment to foster a positive work environment and culture, we conduct an annual, anonymous, and confidential global employee engagement survey administered by a third-party. The survey empowers employees to share feedback on a range of topics, including workplace culture, job satisfaction, leadership, career opportunities, employee well-being, compensation and benefits, team collaboration, and communication. Senior leadership and managers review the aggregated results to identify key areas of focus and formulate strategies to enhance employee experiences, satisfaction, and overall effectiveness. We share the survey results with employees to highlight our strengths and to note opportunities for positive change. In our fiscal 2024 employee engagement survey, we achieved an 89% response rate, which is substantially higher than the third-party response benchmark. Our score for 'Action Taking' was above the benchmark, indicating employee confidence that meaningful action will be taken as a result of the survey, reflecting the work weve done in previous years to improve employee engagement based on survey results. The majority of our employees indicated that they feel they are treated fairly regardless of diversity characteristics, appreciate their managers for providing open and honest feedback, and understand how their work contributes to the Companys success. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion As part of our core values and our efforts to attract and retain top talent, we are committed to building a globally diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion ("DE&I") at FactSet is supported by our DE&I Council, comprised of executive leaders and chaired by our CEO, Phil Snow. An important component of our DE&I strategy is our Business Resource Groups ("BRGs"), which help create an inclusive culture for all our employees. We have eight such groups - the Asian BRG, Black BRG, Families BRG, Pride BRG, Multicultural BRG, Latinx BRG, Womens BRG, and Veterans BRG. The BRGs are supported by senior leaders who serve as executive sponsors. Our BRGs host a variety of educational and networking events globally and many also co-sponsor external community events. During fiscal 2024, we continued to publish our workforce demographics and annual EEO-1 Federal data in our Sustainability Report. Our DE&I efforts included adhering to inclusive hiring best practices and requiring all hiring managers to complete unconscious bias training. Hybrid Workforce In fiscal 2024 we rolled out our updated "How We Work" policy for flexible working arrangements. Employees in many of our locations, where local laws and regulations and the role and department permit, have the option to work full-time in the office, in a hybrid arrangement (usually two to three days per week in the office) or, in some cases, entirely remotely. Some employees may also elect to work a flexible schedule. These arrangements help to retain talent, increase employee satisfaction, and support our commitment to creating a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace. Additionally, we appointed senior site leaders at each of our locations to collaborate with our employees and local culture committees to drive engagement and improve in-office experiences. 9 Table of Contents Learning and Development We offer a range of learning opportunities to empower employees through experiences that support their personal and professional growth. We identify learning needs to ensure that our employees have the skills and knowledge to excel in their roles, grow their careers, and contribute to the success of our organization. During fiscal 2024, our employees increasingly leveraged our non-mandatory learning, with particular focus on our expanded technical learning and training courses. During fiscal 2024, we implemented specialized programming to upskill employees in Generative AI, adopting a tailored approach that catered to varying levels of existing knowledge, ranging from offering foundational insights into GenAI concepts to providing advanced technical training aimed at equipping our engineers with the knowledge to develop cutting-edge GenAI products. Compensation, Benefits and Well-being Our Total Rewards program provides our employees with pay, benefits, and recognition intended to be equitable, comprehensive, locally market-aligned, and spanning the full well-being spectrum. Our compensation and benefits program is reflective of our values and culture, designed to meet the diverse needs of our global employee population, and is essential to our recruitment, development, and retention strategies. Our compensation philosophy is designed to reward performance and support corporate growth. Our employee compensation includes one or more of the following elements: base salaries, annual incentive awards, sales incentive awards, and equity awards. We differentiate individual salary, bonus and equity awards based on performance against key objectives and how effectively our employees demonstrate behaviors consistent with our values and culture. We are committed to offering high-quality, affordable, and locally competitive benefit options, designed to support our employees at all stages of their lives with health, welfare, time-off, and retirement benefits to meet their diverse needs and thrive physically, emotionally, socially, and financially. Government Regulation We are subject to reporting requirements, disclosure obligations and other recordkeeping requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the various local authorities that regulate each location in which we operate. Our P.A.N. Securities, LP subsidiary is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and is a registered broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. P.A.N. Securities, LP, as a registered broker-dealer, is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires that we maintain minimum net capital requirements. We claim exemption under Rule 15c3-3(k)(2)(i). Corporate Contact Information FactSet was founded as a Delaware corporation in 1978, and our principal executive office is in Norwalk, Connecticut. Mailing address of FactSet's headquarters: 45 Glover Avenue, Norwalk, CT 06850 Telephone number: +1 (203) 810-1000 Website address: www.factset.com Available Information Through the Investor Relations section of our website (https://investor.factset.com), we make available free of charge the following filings as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements for the annual stockholder meetings, Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Additionally, we broadcast our quarterly earnings calls live via the investor relations section of our website. We also provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including investor events and press and earnings releases on our investor relations website. The contents of this website section are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC and any reference to this section of our website is intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows our current executive officers: Name of Officer Age Office Held with FactSet Officer Since F. Philip Snow 60 Chief Executive Officer 2014 Helen L. Shan 57 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2018 Robert J. Robie 45 Executive Vice President, Head of Institutional Buyside 2018 Goran Skoko 63 Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific 2019 Kristina W. Karnovsky 45 Executive Vice President, Head of Dealmakers and Wealth 2021 John Costigan 55 Executive Vice President, Chief Data Officer 2022 Katherine M. Stepp 39 Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer 2022 Catrina Harding 52 Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer 2023 Christopher R. Ellis 52 Executive Vice President, Head of Strategic Initiatives and Partnerships 2023 F.Philip SnowChief Executive Officer. Mr. Snow was appointed Chief Executive Officer effective July 1, 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Snow held the title of President. He began his career at FactSet in 1996 as a Consultant, before moving to Asia to hold positions in the Tokyo and Sydney offices. Following his move back to the U.S. in 2000, Mr. Snow held various sales leadership roles prior to assuming the role of Senior Vice President, Director of U.S. Investment Management Sales in 2013. Mr. Snow received a Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley and a Master of International Management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management. He has earned the right to use the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. HelenL.Shan Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Shan was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer effective July 23, 2024. As the Chief Financial Officer, she is responsible for FactSet's global finance organization and oversees all financial functions, including accounting, corporate development, financial planning and analysis, investor relations, real estate, tax, and treasury. She also served in this role from September 2018 through October 2021. From May 2021 through August 2024, Ms. Shan served as Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer. In that role, she was responsible for driving revenue growth by managing global sales, client solutions, marketing and media relations. Prior to that, she was at Marsh McLennan Companies, where she served in a variety of roles, including as the company's Corporate Treasurer and as Chief Financial Officer for Mercer. Preceding that, Ms. Shan held executive positions at Pitney Bowes Inc. and J.P. Morgan. In September 2018, Ms. Shan joined the Board of Directors of EPAM Systems, Inc., a global provider of digital platform engineering and software development services, and currently is the Chairperson of the Audit Committee and also serves on the Compensation Committee. Ms. Shan holds dual degrees with a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Applied Science from the University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School of Business and School of Applied Science and Engineering. Ms. Shan also has a Master of Business Administration from Cornell Universitys SC Johnson College of Business. RobertJ.Robie Executive Vice President, Head of Institutional Buyside. Mr. Robie was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Institutional Buyside, effective September 1, 2023. In his current role, he oversees strategy, research, development and engineering for Institutional Buyside solutions. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Trading Solutions starting in September 2018. Mr. Robie joined FactSet in July 2000 as a Product Sales Specialist. During his tenure at FactSet, Mr. Robie has held several positions of increased responsibility, including Senior Director of Analytics and Director of Global Fixed Income. Although Mr. Robie joined FactSet in 2000, he did work at BTN Partners from 2004 through 2005 in their quantitative portfolio management and performance division, before returning to continue his career with FactSet. Mr. Robie holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Fine Arts from Beloit College. Goran Skoko Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific. Mr. Skoko was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific effective September 1, 2024. In this role, he is responsible for driving revenue growth by managing global sales, client solutions, marketing and media relations. Prior to this, Mr. Skoko served as Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific, Head of Dealmakers & Wealth, and was responsible for providing direction to address the product and content 11 Table of Contents needs for EMEA and Asia Pacific clients while also focusing on increased deployment and building community within our Dealmakers & Wealth space. He also previously served as Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Research & Advisory Solutions and Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Wealth Solutions. He joined FactSet in 2004 as a Senior Product developer and has held a number of positions of increased responsibility. Prior to FactSet, he spent 16 years in various engineering and product management roles at Thomson Financial. Mr. Skoko earned his B.S. in Physics and Computer Science from Fordham University. Kristina W. Karnovsky Executive Vice President, Head of Dealmakers and Wealth. Ms. Karnovsky was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Dealmakers and Wealth effective September 1, 2024. In this role, she is responsible for focusing on increased deployment and building community within our Dealmakers & Wealth space. From July 2021 through August 31, 2024, Ms. Karnovsky served as Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer, working across the entire product portfolio to deliver a differentiated advantage for clients and support their success. Prior to that role, Ms. Karnovsky was Head of Research Solutions. Ms. Karnovsky joined FactSet in 2001 as a Consultant and spent over a decade building FactSet's sell-side business in Sales leadership roles. Ms. Karnovsky earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Scranton. John Costigan Executive Vice President, Chief Data Officer. Mr. Costigan was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Data Officer of FactSet effective June 1, 2023. Prior to that, he served as Chief Content Officer of FactSet starting in April 2022. As Chief Data Officer, he is responsible for FactSet's enterprise-wide data strategy and leads data development from planning through production. This includes data digital transformation using modern techniques and technology to drive timeliness, accuracy, coverage, consistency and usability across all FactSet data assets. Mr. Costigan has been at FactSet since September 2007 in a variety of roles. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Costigan served as Vice President, Product Management at Thomson Financial, and spent 11 years in a variety of Product Management roles at First Call, Autex, ILX, and Tradeweb. Mr. Costigan earned a Bachelor's degree in Economics from St. Michael's College. Katherine M. Stepp Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer. Ms. Stepp was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer, effective September 1, 2022. As Chief Technology Officer, she is responsible for leading FactSet's technology organization and overseeing its digital transformation strategy. Ms. Stepp joined FactSet in 2008 and previously served as Senior Director of Product Management within FactSet's Research and Advisory workflow solutions business. Prior to that role, she was Senior Director of Engineering within FactSet's Research workflow solutions business. Ms. Stepp holds a B.S. in Computer Science from Carnegie Mellon University. Catrina Harding - Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer. Ms. Harding was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief People Officer in July 2023. Prior to that, Ms. Harding served as Chief Human Resources Officer at Gerson Lehrman Group, a financial and global information services company, and Senior Vice President of Human Resources at Synchrony Financial, a consumer financial services company and former division of GE Capital. She has more than 20 years of experience in senior human resources roles at major companies, including U.S. Steel Corporation, General Electric Company, and Ford Motor Company. Ms. Harding holds a Bachelor of Science from Western Michigan University and a Masters in Industrial and Organizational Psychology from the University of Detroit Mercy. Christopher R. Ellis - Executive Vice President, Head of Strategic Initiatives and Partnerships. Mr. Ellis was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Strategic Initiatives and Partnerships effective November 1, 2023. In this role, he collaborates on a range of initiatives to help FactSet better address the needs of our clients, most specifically asset managers and asset owners. Mr. Ellis joined FactSet in 1994 in Client Solutions. His career path since then has included successfully defining and expanding the Portfolio Manager Workstation Sales business unit, ultimately becoming its Vice President before assuming the position of Director of Portfolio Analytics. He subsequently led the development team for FactSet's core workstation. Prior to his current role, he led the business development function at FactSet through a series of successful acquisitions and strategic partnerships. Mr. Ellis is a graduate of Stanford University and a CFA charterholder. Additional Information Additional information with respect to our business is included in the following pages and is incorporated herein by reference: Page(s) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 28