Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify these statements by words such as "may," "might," "will," "should," "expects," "plans," "anticipates," "believes," "estimates," "intends," "projects," "indicates," "predicts," "potential," or "continue," and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, may include projections of our future financial performance and anticipated trends in our business. These statements are only predictions based on our current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about future events. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions. There are many important factors that could cause our actual results, level of activity, performance or achievements to differ materially from the results, level of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements, including the numerous factors discussed under Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that should be specifically considered. Although we believe the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, level of activity, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of any of these forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We do not intend, and are under no duty, to update any of these forward-looking statements after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K to reflect actual results, future events or circumstances, or revised expectations. We intend that all forward-looking statements we make will be subject to safe harbor protection of the federal securities laws as found in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 4 Table of Contents Part I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Overview FactSet Research Systems Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or "FactSet") is a global financial data and analytics company with open and flexible technology and a purpose to drive the investment community to see more, think bigger, and do their best work. Our strategy is to become the leading open content and financial analytics platform in the industry that delivers differentiated advantage for our clients success. For over 40 years, the FactSet platform has delivered expansive data, sophisticated analytics, and flexible technology that global financial professionals need to power their critical investment workflows. Over 160,000 asset managers and owners, bankers, wealth managers, corporate firms, including private equity and venture capital firms, and others, use our personalized solutions to identify opportunities, explore ideas, and gain a competitive advantage, in areas spanning investment research, portfolio construction and analysis, trade execution, performance measurement, risk management, and reporting across the investment lifecycle. We provide financial data and market intelligence on securities, companies and industries to enable our clients to research investment ideas, as well as offering them the capabilities to analyze, monitor and manage their portfolios. We combine dedicated client service with open and flexible technology offerings, such as a configurable desktop and mobile platform, comprehensive data feeds, cloud-based digital solutions, and application programming interfaces ("APIs"). Our revenue is primarily derived from subscriptions to our products and services such as workstations, portfolio analytics, and market data. We advance our industry by comprehensively understanding our clients workflows, solving their most complex challenges, and helping them achieve their goals. By providing them with the leading open content and analytics platform, an expansive universe of concorded data they can trust, next-generation workflow support designed to help them grow and see their next best action, and the industrys most committed service specialists, FactSet puts our clients in a position to outperform. We are focused on growing our business through three reportable segments ("segments"): the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. Refer to Note 19, Segment Information, in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Within each of our segments, we primarily deliver insight and information through our three workflow solutions: Research & Advisory; Analytics & Trading; and Content & Technology ("CTS"). Corporate History FactSet was founded in 1978 and has been publicly traded since June 1996. We are dual listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the NASDAQ Stock Market ("NASDAQ") under the symbol "FDS". Fiscal 2021 marked our 43rd year of operations and, while much has changed in both markets and technology, our focus has always been to provide best-in-class products and exceptional client service. Business Strategy Client needs and market dynamics continue to evolve at an accelerated pace with an increasing demand for differentiated, personalized, and connected data, an ongoing shift to multi-asset class investing, and cost rationalization, as the shift from active to passive investing continues. Clients are seeking new cloud-based solutions that enable self-service and automation, open and flexible systems, and increased efficiencies when integrating and managing data as part of their own broader digital transformations. FactSets strategy focuses on building the leading open content and analytics platform that delivers differentiated advantages for our clients success in keeping with our purpose of enabling the investment community to see more, think bigger and do their best work. We want to be the trusted partner of choice for clients, to anticipate their needs and provide them with the most innovative solutions to make them more efficient. This includes transforming the way our clients discover, decide, and act on an opportunity using our digital platform; purposefully increasing our pace and speed to market by streamlining how we work; and investing in our future workforce. To execute on our strategy, we plan on the following: Growing our digital platform: Scaling up our content refinery by providing the most comprehensive and connected inventory of industry, proprietary, and third-party data for the financial community, including granular data for key industry verticals, private companies, wealth, and environmental social and governance ("ESG"). We are driving next-generation workflow solutions by creating personalized and integrated workflows which include targeted solutions for 5 Table of Contents asset managers, asset owners, sell side, wealth and corporate clients. Our goal is to deliver tangible efficiencies to our clients by connecting data and analytics with a cloud based eco-system, enabling them to manage work more effectively through an integrated investment lifecycle. Delivering execution excellence: Building a more agile and digital first-minded organization that increases the speed of our product creation and go-to-market strategy. To capitalize on market trends and give our clients innovative tools, we plan to release new products built on a cloud-based digital foundation as well as migrating our existing data and applications to the cloud. Additionally, we expect to rationalize our existing product portfolio to reinvest in higher return products. Driving a growth mindset: Recruiting, training and empowering a diverse and operationally efficient workforce to drive sustainable growth. To drive a more performance-based culture, we are investing in talent who can create leading technological solutions, efficiently execute our go-to-market strategy and achieve our growth targets. At the center of our strategy is the relentless focus on our clients and their FactSet experience. We want to be a trusted partner and service provider, offering hyper-personalized digital products for clients to research ideas, uncover relevant insights, and leverage cognitive computing to help get the most out of their data and analytics. Additionally, we continually evaluate business opportunities such as acquisitions and partnerships to help us expand our capabilities and competitive differentiators across the investment portfolio lifecycle. We are focused on growing our global business in three segments: the Americas, EMEA and Asia Pacific. We believe this geographical strategic alignment helps us better manage our resources, target our solutions and interact with our clients. We further execute on our growth strategy by offering data, products, and analytical applications within our three workflow solutions: Research & Advisory; Analytics & Trading; and CTS. Research & Advisory Our Research & Advisory workflow is designed to personalize and automate vital aspects of the research process, providing idea generation, company and market analysis, presentation building and distribution, and research management. Research offerings focus on providing tools that optimize workflows of portfolio managers, buy and sell side analysts, investments bankers, investment relationship professionals and other clients within our expanding user base. Our workstation, mobile, API, and Research Management Solutions ("RMS") easily integrate with our clients ecosystems, powering a streamlined workflow and enabling users to focus more time on high-value tasks. Our RMS & advisory solutions also enable our wealth clients to provide market leading support across their entire enterprise, including home office, advisory, and client engagement. These solutions deliver essential and integrated content into one flexible platform with global coverage, deep history, and transparency through both FactSet and third-party sourced databases. Analytics & Trading Analytics & Trading provides solutions for institutional asset managers and asset owners across the investment portfolio lifecycle, connecting all essential front and middle office investment functions. Fundamental and quantitative research, portfolio construction, order management and trade execution tie into advanced portfolio attribution and performance measurement, risk management, and reporting. The proprietary and third-party models, concorded data, analytics and reporting are in an open framework supporting flexible access through the platform and APIs, and can be deployed as an enterprise system that meets evolving, holistic multi-asset class needs or as individual workflow components that can connect into our clients investment technology ecosystems. CTS CTS focuses on delivering data directly to our clients by leveraging FactSet's core content and technology. Clients seamlessly discover, explore, and access organized and connected content via multiple delivery channels. Whether a client needs market, company, alternative data, or customized client facing digital solutions, we provide structured data through a variety of technologies, such as APIs and cloud infrastructures. Through our Data Management Services ("DMS"), we provide entity mapping and integration of client data. Our symbology links and aggregates a diverse set of content sources to ensure consistency, transparency, and data integrity across a clients business. By enabling our clients to utilize their preferred choice of cloud infrastructure and industry standard databases, programming languages, and data visualization tools, our clients can centralize, integrate, and analyze disparate data sources for faster and more cost-effective decision making. 6 Table of Contents FactSet Clients Buy-side Buy-side clients continue to shift increasingly towards multi-asset class investment strategies and we are well-positioned to be a partner of choice in this space. Our ability to provide enterprise-wide solutions to our clients across their entire workflow, covering virtually every asset class, enables us to compete for greater market share. Buy-side clients primarily include asset managers, asset owners, wealth managers, hedge funds, corporate firms and channel partners. They access our multi-asset-class tools by utilizing our workstations, Analytics & Trading tools, proprietary content, data feeds, APIs and portfolio services. The buy-side annual subscription value ("ASV") growth rate for fiscal 2021 was 6.5%. Buy-side clients accounted for 83.2% of our ASV as of August 31, 2021. ASV at any point in time represents the forward-looking revenue for the next 12 months from all subscription services currently being supplied to clients and excludes professional service fees, which are not subscription-based. Sell-side We deliver comprehensive solutions to sell-side clients including workstation, proprietary and third-party content, productivity tools for Microsoft Office, web and mobile, and RMS for research authoring and publishing. Our focus remains on expanding the depth of content offered and increasing workflow efficiency for sell-side firms. These firms primarily include broker-dealers, banking and advisory, private equity and venture capital firms. The sell-side ASV growth rate for fiscal 2021 was 12.0%. Sell-side clients accounted for 16.8% of our ASV as of August 31, 2021. Client and User Additions Our total client count as of August 31, 2021 was 6,453, representing a net increase of 578 or 9.8% in the last 12 months. primarily driven by an increase in wealth management and corporate clients as well as third-party data providers. The count includes clients with ASV of $10,000 and above. As of August 31, 2021 there were 160,932 professionals using FactSet, representing a net increase of 19,796 or 14.0% in the last 12 months, primarily driven by an increase in research, wealth and corporate solutions users. Annual ASV retention was greater than 95% for the period ended August 31, 2021 and August 31, 2020. When expressed as a percentage of clients, annual retention increased to approximately 91% for the period ended August 31, 2021, compared with approximately 90% for the period ended August 31, 2020. Organic ASV plus Professional Services Growth Organic ASV plus Professional Services at any point in time equals our forward-looking revenue for the next 12 months from all subscription services currently being supplied to clients, excluding ASV from acquisitions and dispositions completed within the last 12 months and the effects of foreign currency movements on the current year period, plus professional services. As of August 31, 2021, our Organic ASV plus Professional Services totaled $1.68 billion, up 7.2% over the prior year comparable period. Organic ASV increased across all our geographic segments, with the majority of the increase related to the Americas, followed by EMEA and Asia Pacific. This increase was driven by additional sales in our workflow solutions, primarily in Analytics & Trading, CTS and Research. 7 Table of Contents The following chart provides a snapshot of our historic Organic ASV plus Professional Services growth: Financial Information on Geographic Areas Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise that have the following characteristics: (i) they engage in business activities from which they may earn revenue and incur expense, (ii) their operating results are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker ("CODM") for resource allocation decisions and performance assessment, and (iii) their discrete financial information is available. At FactSet, our Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") functions as our CODM. Our operating segments are aligned with how our CODM manages the business and the geographic markets in which we serve, with a primary focus on providing integrated global financial and economic information. Our internal financial reporting structure is based on three reportable segments: the Americas; EMEA; and Asia Pacific. Through fiscal 2021, within each of our segments, we delivered insight and information based on four workflow solutions: Research; Analytics & Trading; CTS; and Wealth. Beginning with our 2022 fiscal year, we have reorganized our workflows into three solutions: Research & Advisory; Analytics & Trading; and CTS, to better align our products and go-to-market strategy. These workflow solutions provide global financial and economic information to investment managers, investment banks and other financial services professionals. The Americas segment serves our clients throughout North, Central, and South America, with offices in 13 states throughout the United States ("U.S."), including our corporate headquarters in Norwalk, Connecticut, and an office in both Brazil and Canada. The EMEA segment serves our clients in countries in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and maintains office locations in Bulgaria, England, France, Germany, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland and the UAE. The Asia Pacific segment serves our clients in countries in Asia and Australia and includes office locations in Australia, China, Hong Kong, India, Japan, the Philippines, and Singapore. Segment revenue reflects sales to our clients based in these respective geographic locations. Each segment records expenses related to its individual operations with the exception of expenditures associated with our data centers, third-party data costs and corporate headquarters charges, which are recorded by the Americas segment and are not allocated to the other segments. The content collection centers, located in India, the Philippines, and Latvia, benefit all our operating segments, and thus the expenses incurred at these locations are allocated to each segment based on a percentage of revenue. Refer to Note 19, Segment Information in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the results of operations and financial information for each of our segments. 8 Table of Contents The following charts depict revenue related to our reportable segments. ( in millions) Human Capital Management Who We Are As of August 31, 2021, we had 37 offices across 20 countries with 10,892 employees, representing an increase of 3.9% in the last twelve months. Of our total employees, 7,080 (65%) were located in Asia Pacific, 2,439 (22%) in the Americas and 1,373 (13%) in EMEA . In order to optimize productivity, we have invested in expanding o ur footprint and talent pool in India and the Philippines, where we now have a combined workforce of approximately 6,800 employees. Functionally, 22% of our employees are in Sales and Client Solutions; 30% are in Technology & Product Development; 44% are in Content Operations; and 4% are in Corporate Support. As of August 31, 2021 and August 31, 2020, 460 of our employees were represented by mandatory works councils within certain of our French and German subsidiaries. No other FactSet employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements. Our Purpose and Values Our purpose is to drive the investment community to see more, think bigger, and do their best work. Intense client focus and support is a critical component of our strategic aim and operational approach. Our employees are critical to our success and enable us to execute at a high level. We have built a collaborative culture that recognizes and rewards innovation and offers employees a variety of opportunities and experiences. We believe that our continued focus on making our employees a top priority helps us provide high quality insights and information to clients globally. Employee Engagement We conduct an annual, anonymous and confidential global employee engagement survey administered by a third party to capture our employees constructive feedback on a broad range of topics. The survey's scores and comments provide insight on appropriate action to improve our employees experience and our overall effectiveness as an organization. Aggregated survey results are reviewed by executive and senior leadership and direct managers to analyze and identify company-wide and 9 Table of Contents individual operational unit focus areas and action plans for improvement. We share survey results with all employees to highlight areas that employees believe are strengths of FactSet and reflect on areas where employees feel there are opportunities for positive change. Progress on initiatives is tracked to ensure that the actions taken address the underlying issues and promote an environment of continuous improvement. In our fiscal 2021 employee engagement survey, we achieved a 92% response rate, indicating that we heard from the vast majority of our employees. Our overall engagement at the Company level was our highest since we implemented this survey. We increased scores for all questions at the Company level, and in over 10,000 comments received, employees told us that they felt supported through the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to have pride in their work, colleagues, and company. Our highest scores were in the areas of diversity, equity and inclusion and employees understanding of how they contribute to FactSets success, reflecting our culture where employees feel that they are treated fairly and are comfortable being themselves. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion We recognize that our best ideas can come from anyone, anywhere, at any time, and help us provide the best solutions for our clients around the globe. We continually seek to expand our workforce with diverse perspectives, backgrounds, and experiences. By fostering a globally inclusive culture, we enable our people to be themselves at work and to join in, be heard, contribute, and grow. Together, we work to recruit, advance, and engage talent at FactSet with an inclusive culture unified by the FactSet spirit of going above and beyond. In fiscal 2021, we continued our strong commitment to Diversity, Equity & Inclusion ("DE&I") in the following ways: Governance & Leadership Commitment DE&I at FactSet begins with a commitment from our CEO and the entire FactSet leadership team to improve diversity representation as part of our DE&I strategy. In Fiscal 2021, we strengthened our DE&I governance by creating the FactSet Global DE&I Council, consisting of over 20 senior leaders from across FactSet who are empowered to drive our DE&I progress and create strategic accountability for DE&I results. In addition, our senior leaders serve as Executive Sponsors for our Business Resource Groups ("BRGs"), or employee networks. Global DE&I Strategy In fiscal 2021 we refreshed our DE&I strategy and expanded its scope. Our new DE&I strategy consists of three impact areas - Workforce, Marketplace and Society - with twelve levers to drive these impact areas. For Workforce, the levers are leadership commitment, transparency and accountability, people processes, retention and advancement, recruitment, education and engagement, leading ultimately to inclusion, equity and belonging. For Marketplace, our levers are supplier diversity and collaboration with clients, with a goal to increase economic opportunity. For Society, our levers are investments, contributions and corporate voice, designed to drive social justice. Investment in DE&I Resources In order to deliver on our commitments, we have significantly increased our investment in DE&I, both in staffing and budget. This includes the appointment of our first ever Chief DE&I Officer who leads a team of five dedicated DE&I staff globally. Key DE&I Actions Taken in FY2021 During fiscal 2021, for the first time, we published our workforce demographics (including sharing our EEO-1 Federal data) in our annual Corporate Responsibility report. By reporting our workforce demographics, we made a visible step in our DE&I commitment as we aspire to change the composition of our employee demographics by 2023 to better include underrepresented groups. For example, we aim to increase the percentage of women at FactSet overall, and specifically the percentage of women in our leadership group (vice president level and above) and in our technical areas. We will continue to report on our progress annually to increase transparency and to facilitate accountability. Other DE&I actions taken during Fiscal 2021 included: launching new BRGs globally; providing education on DE&I topics across our organization; joining the Human Rights Campaign Business Coalition for the Equality Act and MLT Black Equity At Work; providing opportunities for two employees, on full pay/benefits, to join the CEO Action for Racial Equity Fellowship; holding all-staff DE&I events such as #StopAsianHate; launching our Racial Justice Allies initiative; creating a new Diversity Recruitment role and changing our recruitment processes to mandate diverse interview slates while developing relationships with historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs); and observing Juneteenth as a paid holiday in the U.S. 10 Table of Contents Supporting Our Employees Through COVID-19 As the onset and spread of the COVID-19 pandemic created uncertainty and anxiety, our highest priority concern has been the health and safety of our employees, our families and our communities. During fiscal 2021, we required the vast majority of our employees at our offices across the globe (including corporate headquarters) to work remotely on a temporary basis, and provided them with support to be able to continue to work productively while being remote. We presented regular all-company meetings led by our CEO and offered extensive benefit resources and mental health support. Employees were offered additional paid time off for COVID-19 illness and family care and to receive and recover from COVID-19 vaccinations. We have begun to re-open offices and welcome employees back, utilizing a three-phased approach to provide flexibility for employees with a focus on safety. Our offices will not re-open until local authorities permit us to do so and our own criteria and conditions to ensure employees health and safety are satisfied. Additionally, we have been implementing and will continue to support a variety of work options, such as flexible work arrangements permitting remote working or hybrid arrangements with the ability to split time between working remotely and in the office. Learning & Development At FactSet, we are lifelong learners. We believe that learning and development emboldens our employees, fosters outperformance with a growth mindset, demonstrates our commitment to core values, and contributes to the success of FactSets culture and business. This year we centralized and expanded our Global Learning & Development department, allowing us to better leverage the training, content, product, and technology expertise that exists across our business lines to provide all employees with more opportunities to learn and grow their careers with FactSet. As a commitment to making learning accessible for employees around the world, our CEO and Executive Leadership Team strongly encourage all employees to set aside four hours each month for active learning. During fiscal 2021, we launched LinkedIn Learning for all FactSet employees, providing curated content by experts in numerous fields, allowing employees to take courses based on their interests, performance goals, and/or professional enrichment. In addition to LinkedIn Learning and other third-party eLearning providers, we create hundreds of in-house eLearnings each year to help our employees learn about our business, industry, clients, and products. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, all employee education was quickly transitioned to virtual classrooms. As employees adjusted to remote work and a changing world, we offered eLearning on remote working, remote collaboration tools, and mental health. Compensation, Benefits and Well-being FactSet offers our employees a broad range of competitive compensation, benefits and well-being programs which are designed to meet the diverse needs of our global employee population and which are reflective of our Companys values and culture. Offering competitive and performance-focused compensation is essential to our talent strategies regarding recruitment, development, and retention. Programs are designed to be competitive in the markets in which we compete for talent and align with the short and long-term objectives of FactSet and our individual business units. Our employee compensation may include one or more of the following elements: base salaries, annual incentive awards, sales incentive awards, and equity awards. We differentiate individual salary, bonus and equity awards based on performance against key objectives and how effectively our managers and employees demonstrate behaviors consistent with our values and culture. FactSet is committed to offering high-quality, affordable, locally competitive benefits options designed to meet the needs of our employees and their families and to support our employees physical, emotional, financial, and social well-being at every stage of life. Employees in all FactSet locations globally have access to an Employee Assistance Program, providing employees and their immediate family members access to experienced professional counselors for personal and professional support. In addition to offering access to professional counseling services, we provide our employees and families with education and resources. We provide regular updates on health coverage and resources available through our health plans. Third-Party Content We aggregate content from third-party data suppliers, news sources, exchanges, brokers and contributors into our dedicated managed database, which our clients access through our flexible delivery platforms to perform their analysis. We seek to maintain contractual relationships with a minimum of two content providers for each major type of financial data, though certain data sets on which we rely have a limited number of suppliers. We make every effort to assure that, where reasonable, alternative sources are available. We are not dependent on any one third-party data supplier in order to meet the needs of our clients. We have entered into third-party content agreements of varying lengths, which in some cases can be terminated on one 11 Table of Contents years notice, at predefined dates, and in other cases on shorter notice. We are not dependent on any one third-party data supplier in order to meet the needs of our clients, with only two data suppliers representing more than 10% of our total data costs for the twelve months ended August 31, 2021. Data Centers and Cloud Computing Our business is dependent on our ability to process substantial volumes of data and transactions rapidly and efficiently on our networks and systems. Our global technology infrastructure supports our operations and is designed to facilitate the reliable and efficient processing and delivery of data and analytics to our clients. Our data centers contain multiple layers of redundancy to enhance system performance, including maintaining, processing and storing data at multiple data centers. User connections are load balanced between data centers. In the event of a site failure, equipment problem or localized disaster, the remaining centers have the capacity to handle the additional load. We continue to be focused on maintaining a global technological infrastructure that allows us to support our growing business. We continue to operate fully redundant data centers in both Virginia and New Jersey in the U.S. that can handle our entire client capacity. In addition, as we look to host more of our infrastructure and products on the cloud, we are migrating select systems and applications to diverse cloud computing regions utilizing premier, market-leading cloud providers. The Competitive Landscape We are a part of the financial information services industry, providing financial data, analytics and workflow solutions to the global investment community. This competitive market is comprised of both large, well-capitalized companies and smaller, niche firms including market data suppliers, news and information providers and many third-party content providers that supply us with financial information included in our products. Our largest competitors are Bloomberg L.P., Refinitiv (a London Stock Exchange Group business) and Market Intelligence (an S&P Global business). Other competitors and competitive products include online database suppliers and integrators and their applications, such as BlackRock Solutions, Morningstar Inc. and MSCI Inc. Many of these firms provide products or services similar to our own offerings. We believe there are high barriers to entry and we expect it would be difficult for another vendor to quickly replicate the extensive data we currently offer. Through our in-depth analytics and client service, we believe we can offer clients a more comprehensive solution with one of the broadest sets of functionalities delivered through a desktop or mobile user interface or through a standardized or bespoke data feed as well as an API. In addition, our applications, including our client support and service offerings, are entrenched in the workflow of many financial professionals given the downloadable functionality, instant data refresh and portfolio analysis/screening capabilities offered. We are entrusted with significant amounts of our clients' own proprietary data, including portfolio holdings. As a result, we believe our products are central to our clients investment analysis and decision-making. Intellectual Property We have registered trademarks and copyrights for many of our products and services and will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks and copyrights as appropriate. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, clients, data suppliers and vendors. We seek to protect our workflow solutions, documentation and other written materials under trade secret, copyright and patent laws. While we do not believe we are dependent on any one of our intellectual property rights, we do rely on the combination of intellectual property rights and other measures to protect our proprietary rights. Despite these efforts, existing intellectual property laws may afford only limited protection. Research & Product Development Costs A key aspect of our growth strategy is to offer new solutions and enhance our existing products and applications by making them faster with more reliable data. We strive to rapidly adopt new technology that can improve our products and services. We do not have a separate research and product development department, but rather rely on these departments to work closely with our strategists, product managers, sales and other client-facing specialists to develop new products and process innovations and enhance existing products. These costs primarily consist of personnel-related expenses, such as salaries and related benefits for our product development, software engineering and technical support departments and, if not capitalized, are included in employee compensation (found within of Cost of Services expense and Selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") in the Consolidated Statements of Income). Research and product development costs include the salary and benefits for our product development, software engineering and technical support staff working on these initiatives. We incurred research and product development costs of $250.1 million, $224.0 million, and $214.7 million during fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. 12 Table of Contents Government Regulation We are subject to reporting requirements, disclosure obligations and other recordkeeping requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and the various local authorities that regulate each location in which we operate. Our P.A.N. Securities, LP subsidiary is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and is a registered broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. P.A.N. Securities, LP, as a registered broker-dealer, is subject to Rule 15c3-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires that we maintain minimum net capital requirements. We claim exemption under Rule 15c3-3(k)(2)(i). Corporate Contact Information FactSet was founded as a Delaware corporation in 1978, and our principal executive office is in Norwalk, Connecticut. Mailing address of FactSet's headquarters: 45 Glover Avenue Norwalk, CT 06850 Telephone number: +1 (203) 810-1000 Website address: www.factset.com Available Information Through the Investor Relations section of our website (https://investor.factset.com), we make available free of charge the following filings as soon as practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC: our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements for the annual stockholder meetings, Reports on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file with the SEC at www.sec.gov. Additionally, we broadcast our quarterly earnings calls live via the investor relations section of our website. We also provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including investor events and press and earnings releases on our investor relations website. The contents of this website section are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC and any reference to this section of our website is intended to be inactive textual references only. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of the Registrant The following table shows FactSets current executive officers: Name of Officer Age Office Held with FactSet Officer Since F. Philip Snow 57 Chief Executive Officer 2014 Linda S. Huber 63 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 2021 Rachel R. Stern 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary 2009 Gene D. Fernandez 54 Executive Vice President, Chief Technology and Content Officer 2017 Robert J. Robie 43 Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Trading Solutions 2018 Helen L. Shan 54 Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer 2018 Daniel Viens 64 Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer 2018 Goran Skoko 60 Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific, Head of Research & Advisory Solutions 2019 Kristina W. Karnovsky 42 Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer 2021 Jonathan Reeve 53 Executive Vice President, Head of Content & Technology Solutions 2021 F. Philip Snow Chief Executive Officer . Mr. Snow was named Chief Executive Officer effective July 1, 2015. Prior to that, Mr. Snow held the title of President. He began his career at FactSet in 1996 as a Consultant, before moving to Asia to hold positions in the Tokyo and Sydney offices. Following his move back to the U.S. in 2000, Mr. Snow held various sales leadership roles prior to assuming the role of Senior Vice President, Director of U.S. Investment Management Sales in 2013. Mr. Snow received a Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry from the University of California at Berkeley and a Master of International Management from the Thunderbird School of Global Management. He has earned the right to use the Chartered Financial Analyst designation. Linda S. Huber - Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer. Ms. Huber was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of FactSet in October 2021. As Chief Financial Officer, she is responsible for FactSets global finance organization and oversees all financial functions, including accounting, corporate development, financial planning and analysis (FP&A), treasury, tax, and investor and media relations. Prior to joining FactSet, Ms. Huber served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer at MSCI Inc. Prior to joining MSCI, she served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Moodys Corporation from May 2005 to June 2018. Earlier in her career, Ms. Huber served in several increasingly senior roles in financial services, including Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at U.S. Trust Company, a subsidiary of Charles Schwab & Company, Inc.; Managing Director at Freeman & Co.; Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Development and Vice President and Assistant Treasurer at PepsiCo.; Vice President of Energy Investment Banking Group at Bankers Trust Co.; and Associate in the Natural Resources Group at The First Boston Corp. Ms. Huber also held the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army. Ms. Huber earned an MBA from the Stanford Graduate School of Business and a B.S. degree in business and economics from Lehigh University. Rachel R. Stern Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary. Ms. Stern was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Global Head of Strategic Resources and Secretary in October 2018. In addition to her role in the Legal Department, Ms. Stern is also responsible for Compliance, Facilities Management and Real Estate Planning and the administration of our offices in Hyderabad, Manila and Riga. Ms. Stern joined FactSet in January 2001 as General Counsel. Ms. Stern is admitted to practice in New York, Washington D.C., and as House Counsel in Connecticut. Ms. Stern received a Bachelor of Arts from Yale University, a Master of Arts from the University of London and a Juris Doctor from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. Gene D. Fernandez Executive Vice President, Chief Technology and Content Officer. Mr. Fernandez was appointed Chief Technology and Content Officer in July 2021. He joined FactSet as Chief Technology and Product Officer in November 2017 from J.P. Morgan, where he served as the Chief Technology Officer, New Product Development. In this role, he developed the strategy and built the engineering function responsible for new product innovation. During a decade at J.P. Morgan, Mr. Fernandez held various other roles, including Chief Technology Officer for Client Technology and Research and Banking 14 Table of Contents Information Technology. Prior to J.P. Morgan, he worked at Credit Suisse and Merrill Lynch. Mr. Fernandez received a Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Economics from Rutgers University. Robert J. Robie Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Trading Solutions. Mr. Robie was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Analytics & Tradition Solutions in September 2018. In his current role, he oversees strategy, research, development and engineering for Analytics & Trading platforms. Mr. Robie joined FactSet in July 2000 as a Product Sales Specialist. During his tenure at FactSet, Mr. Robie has held several positions of increased responsibility, including Senior Director of Analytics and Director of Global Fixed Income. Although Mr. Robie joined FactSet in 2000, he did work at BTN Partners from 2004 through 2005 in their quantitative portfolio management and performance division, before returning to continue his career with FactSet. Mr. Robie holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Fine Arts from Beloit College. Helen L. Shan Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer. Ms. Shan was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Revenue Officer effective May 3, 2021. As the Chief Revenue Officer, she is responsible for driving revenue growth by managing global sales, client solutions, and marketing. Ms. Shan joined FactSet as Chief Financial Officer in September 2018 where she oversaw all financial functions at FactSet. Prior to that, she was at Marsh McLennan Companies, where she served in a variety of roles, including as the company's Corporate Treasurer and also as Chief Financial Officer for Mercer, a professional services firm where she was responsible for global financial reporting and performance, operational finance, investments, and corporate strategy. Preceding that, Ms. Shan also served as the Vice President and Treasurer for Pitney Bowes Inc. and served as a Managing Director at J.P. Morgan. In September 2018, Ms. Shan joined the Board of Directors of EPAM Systems Inc., a global provider of digital platform engineering and software development services. Ms. Shan holds dual degrees with a Bachelor of Science and a Bachelor of Applied Science from t he University of Pennsylvanias Wharton School of Business and School of Applied Science and Engineering. Ms. Shan also has a Master of Business Administration from Cornell Universitys SC Johnson College of Business. Daniel Viens Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer. Mr. Viens was appointed Executive Vice President Chief Human Resources Officer in October 2021. Mr. Viens joined FactSet in September 1998 as a Vice President, Director of Human Resources and has held several leadership positions of increased responsibility in Human Resources. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Viens was a Director of Human Resources for First Data Solutions and Donnelly Marketing (a former company of Dun & Bradstreet), where he developed significant Human Resources acumen. Mr. Viens graduated from Boston University, and holds both a Master's Degree from Eastern Illinois University in Clinical Psychology and a Master of Business Administration from Columbia University. Goran Skoko Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific, Head of Research & Advisory Solutions. Mr. Skoko was appointed Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Research & Advisory in July 2021. In his current role, Mr. Skoko is responsible for providing direction to address the product and content needs for EMEA and Asia Pacific clients while also focusing on increased deployment and building community with our Research & Advisory solutions. Prior to that, Mr. Skoko was Executive Vice President, Managing Director EMEA and Asia Pacific and Head of Wealth Solutio ns. He joined FactSet in 2004 as a Senior Product developer and has held a number of positions of increased responsibility. Prior to FactSet, he spent 16 years in various engineering and product management roles at Thomson Financial. Mr. Skoko earned his B.S. in Physics and Computer Science from Fordham University. Kristina W. Karnovsky Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer. Ms. Karnovsky was appointed Executive Vice President, Chief Product Officer in July 2021. In her current role she works across the entire product portfolio to deliver a differentiated advantage for clients and support their success. Prior to this role, Ms. Karnovsky was Head of Research Solutions. Ms. Karnovsky joined FactSet in 2001 as a Consultant and spent over a decade building FactSet's sell-side business in Sales leadership roles. Ms. Karnovsky earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Scranton. Jonathan Reeve Executive Vice President, Head of Content & Technology Solutions. Mr. Reeve was appointed Executive Vice President, Head of Content & Technology Solutions at FactSet in October 2021. As Head of Content & Technology Solutions, he oversees and leads the development of FactSets off-platform products, including financial data solutions, application technologies, and the delivery of FactSet proprietary and third-party content over our data feeds, APIs, Open FactSet Marketplace, and cloud-delivery solutions. Mr. Reeve joined FactSet in April 2020 as Senior Vice President and Head of Content & Technology Solutions. Prior to joining FactSet, Mr. Reeve led Connectivity, Feeds and Desktop Businesses at Intercontinental Exchange (ICE). Earlier in his career, he held various positions at S&P Global, including Chief Data Officer and Head of Product & Content for the S&P Market Intelligence Division. Mr. Reeve earned a B.A in Economics from Concordia University in Montreal. 15 Table of Contents Additional Information Additional information with respect to our business is included in the following pages and is incorporated herein by reference: Page(s) Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 30