Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by us in fiscal 2017 . OVERVIEW We provide products and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions across the enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO Score, and our decision management systems power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 100 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, pharmaceutical companies, healthcare organizations, public agencies and organizations in other industries. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO Scores, the standard measure in the U.S. of consumer credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from clients outside the United States. International revenues accounted for 34% and 33% of total consolidated revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 74% and 76% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenue from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under scoring, network service or internal hosted software arrangements, annual software maintenance fees and annual license fees under long-term software license arrangements. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for approximately 70% and 74% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. 15 Table of Contents For our Scores segment, we continue to drive growth in both revenue and operating margin with our industry leading business-to-business FICO Scores expanding further into the larger, faster growing U.S. consumer market. Scores Revenue for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 increased 6% to $59.4 million from $56.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2015, and Scores operating income increased 10% to $46.1 million from $41.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2015. For our Applications and Decision Management Software segments, we continue to expand our investments in sales distributions and go-to-market. As a result, our bookings increased 31% for Decision Management Software and 11% for Applications quarter over quarter. We also began to broaden our investment into product delivery, support and infrastructure operations, which was a primary driver for the quarter-over-quarter increase in our operating loss for the Decision Management Software segment. Operating income for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 was $34.9 million, an increase of 13% from $30.8 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2015, while the operating margin remained 15%. Net margin increased from 10% to 17% quarter over quarter, a 79% increase, primarily driven by our adoption of ASU 2016-09 effective October 1, 2016, as further described in Notes 1 and 10 of the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We continue to enhance shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 0.3 million shares at a total repurchase price of $ 30.4 million . As of December 31, 2016 , we had $199.6 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program. Bookings Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance. Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams. We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings. Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms. Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license. Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates. The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability. Transactional and Maintenance Bookings We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by the contractual rate. Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts. We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements. Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated. This variability is primarily caused by the following: The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers industries; Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate. We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract. Professional Services Bookings We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer services resources used to complete a project. License Bookings Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract. 16 Table of Contents Bookings Trend Analysis Bookings Bookings Yield (1) Number of Bookings over $1 Million Weighted- Average Term (2) (In millions) (Months) Quarter Ended December 31, 2016 $ 96.4 21 % 13 27 Quarter Ended December 31, 2015 $ 86.4 26 % 10 24 (1) Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated. (2) Weighted-average term of bookings measures the average term over which bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue. Transactional and maintenance bookings were 30% and 27% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Professional services bookings were 55% and 52% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. License bookings were 15% and 21% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 : Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2016 2015 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 134,765 $ 120,141 61 % 60 % $ 14,624 12 % Scores 59,382 56,002 27 % 28 % 3,380 6 % Decision Management Software 25,453 23,933 12 % 12 % 1,520 6 % Total $ 219,600 $ 200,076 100 % 100 % 19,524 10 % Applications Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Period-to- Period Percentage 2016 2015 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 84,881 $ 80,983 $ 3,898 5 % Professional services 34,341 27,126 7,215 27 % License 15,543 12,032 3,511 29 % Total $ 134,765 $ 120,141 14,624 12 % Applications segment revenues increased $14.6 million primarily due to a $6.1 million increase in our fraud solutions, a $5.9 million increase in our originations solutions, and a $3.0 million increase in our customer communications services. The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license revenue mainly driven by one large multi-year license transaction. The increase in originations solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in services and transactional revenue. The increase in customer communication services was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenues as a result of our growth in the mobile communication market. 17 Table of Contents Scores Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Period-to- Period Percentage 2016 2015 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 58,252 $ 55,217 $ 3,035 5 % Professional services 521 748 (227 ) (30 )% License 609 37 572 1,546 % Total $ 59,382 $ 56,002 3,380 6 % Scores segment revenues increased $3.4 million due to an increase of $2.8 million in our business-to-business scores revenue and $0.6 million in our business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in business-to-business scores was primarily attributable to an increase in our transactional scores driven by new originations, account management and prescreen. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to an increase in direct sales generated from the myFICO.com website. During the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for approximately 18% and 19% , respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers recorded in our other segments. Decision Management Software Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Period-to- Period Percentage 2016 2015 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 10,527 $ 10,872 $ (345 ) (3 )% Professional services 8,681 6,278 2,403 38 % License 6,245 6,783 (538 ) (8 )% Total $ 25,453 $ 23,933 1,520 6 % Decision Management Software segment revenues increased $1.5 million primarily attributable to an increase in services revenue, partially offset by a decrease in license and maintenance. 18 Table of Contents Operating Expenses and Other Income / Expenses The following tables set forth certain summary information related to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 : Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to- Period-to- Period Percentage 2016 2015 2016 2015 Period Change Change (In thousands, except employees) (In thousands, except employees) Revenues $ 219,600 $ 200,076 100 % 100 % $ 19,524 10 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 69,997 62,193 32 % 31 % 7,804 13 % Research and development 26,142 24,631 12 % 12 % 1,511 6 % Selling, general and administrative 85,214 78,838 39 % 40 % 6,376 8 % Amortization of intangible assets 3,320 3,580 1 % 2 % (260 ) (7 )% Total operating expenses 184,673 169,242 84 % 85 % 15,431 9 % Operating income 34,927 30,834 16 % 15 % 4,093 13 % Interest expense, net (6,172 ) (6,724 ) (3 )% (3 )% 552 (8 )% Other expense, net (100 ) (334 ) % % 234 (70 )% Income before income taxes 28,655 23,776 13 % 12 % 4,879 21 % Provision for income taxes (9,246 ) 4,535 (4 )% 2 % (13,781 ) (304 )% Net income $ 37,901 $ 19,241 17 % 10 % 18,660 97 % Number of employees at quarter end 3,167 2,778 389 14 % Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; outside services; internal network hosting costs; software royalty fees; and credit bureau data and processing services. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased to 32% during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 from 31% during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . The $7.8 million increase was primarily attributable to a $4.5 million increase in personnel and labor costs, and a $2.7 million increase in allocated facilities and infrastructure costs. The increase in personnel and labor costs was primarily attributable to an increase in professional services delivery cost driven by higher services revenue, as well as an increase in salaries and benefit costs as a result of our increased headcount. The increase in allocated facilities and infrastructure costs was primarily attributable to increased resource requirement due to our expanded investment in product delivery, support and infrastructure operations. Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . Research and Development Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Tools products. Research and development expenses increased $1.5 million to $26.1 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 from $24.6 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in personnel and labor cost driven by our increased headcount. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 12% during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 , consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . 19 Table of Contents Over the next several quarters, we expect research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries, commissions and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $6.4 million to $85.2 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 from $78.8 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 , primarily driven by our continued investment in sales distribution and go-to-market. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 39% during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 , materially consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . Over the next several quarters, we expect selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years. Amortization expense for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 was $3.3 million. Over the next several quarters we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . Interest Expense, Net Interest expense includes primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008 and July 2010, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income include interest expense netted with interest income, which is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. The quarter over quarter decrease in interest expense of $0.6 million was primarily attributable to the $60.0 million principal payment in July 2016 on the senior notes issued in July 2010 resulting in lower average debt balance for the quarter ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by a higher average balance on our revolving line of credit. Over the next several quarters we expect net interest expense will be consistent with or lower than the net interest expense incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 due to the $72.0 million principal payment scheduled to occur in July 2017 on the senior notes issued in July 2010. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts, and other non-operating items. 20 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was (32.3)% and 19.1% during the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the full fiscal year. The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution. The effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 was significantly impacted by the recording of excess tax benefits relating to stock awards that vested in December 2016. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 on October 1, 2016, we no longer record excess tax benefits as an increase to additional paid-in capital, but record such excess tax benefits on a prospective basis as a reduction of income tax expense, which amounted to $17.3 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2016. We also anticipate the potential for increased periodic volatility in future effective tax rates as the impact of the continued application of ASU 2016-09 is dependent upon our future grants of stock-based compensation, our future stock price in relation to the fair value of awards on grant date and the exercise behavior of the our stock option holders. Operating Income The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the quarters ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 : Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2016 2015 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 34,968 $ 32,704 $ 2,264 7 % Scores 46,063 41,833 4,230 10 % Decision Management Software (3,632 ) (1,361 ) (2,271 ) 167 % Corporate expenses (24,633 ) (24,062 ) (571 ) 2 % Total segment operating income 52,766 49,114 3,652 7 % Unallocated share-based compensation (14,519 ) (14,700 ) 181 (1 )% Unallocated amortization expense (3,320 ) (3,580 ) 260 (7 )% Operating income $ 34,927 $ 30,834 4,093 13 % Applications Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 134,765 $ 120,141 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (99,797 ) (87,437 ) (74 )% (73 )% Segment operating income $ 34,968 $ 32,704 26 % 27 % Scores Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 59,382 $ 56,002 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (13,319 ) (14,169 ) (22 )% (25 )% Segment operating income $ 46,063 $ 41,833 78 % 75 % 21 Table of Contents Decision Management Software Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2016 2015 2016 2015 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 25,453 $ 23,933 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (29,085 ) (25,294 ) (114 )% (106 )% Segment operating loss $ (3,632 ) $ (1,361 ) (14 )% (6 )% The quarter over quarter $4.1 million increase in operating income was attributable to a $19.5 million increase in segment revenues, a $0.3 million decrease in amortization cost, and a $0.2 million decrease in share-based compensation cost, partially offset by a $15.3 million increase in segment operating expenses and a $0.6 million increase in corporate expenses. At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $3.6 million increase in segment operating income was the result of a $4.2 million increase in our Scores segment operating income and a $2.3 million increase in our Applications segment operating income, partially offset by a $2.3 million increase in our Decision Management Software segment operating loss and a $0.6 million increase in corporate expense. The quarter over quarter $2.3 million increase in Applications segment operating income was due to a $14.6 million increase in segment revenues, partially offset by a $12.3 million increase in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications was 26% , materially consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2015. The quarter over quarter $4.2 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $3.4 million increase in segment revenue and a $0.8 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Scores increased to 78% from 75% primarily due to a decrease in sales related expenses. The quarter over quarter $2.3 million increase in Decision Management Software segment operating loss was due to a $3.8 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $1.5 million increase in segment revenue. Segment operating margin for Decision Management Software decreased to a negative 14% from a negative 6% primarily due to our continued investment in sales distribution, an increase in services delivery cost driven by increased professional services revenue, as well as our expanded investment in cloud infrastructure operations. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Outlook As of December 31, 2016 , we had $88.1 million in cash and cash equivalents which included $67.0 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $400 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $72.0 million principal payment due in July 2017 on our senior notes issued in July 2010. Additionally, we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited. 22 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period 2016 2015 Change (In thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 32,978 $ 50,629 $ (17,651 ) Investing activities (4,319 ) (4,294 ) (25 ) Financing activities (12,995 ) (41,267 ) 28,272 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (3,489 ) (478 ) (3,011 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 12,175 $ 4,590 7,585 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $33.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 from $50.6 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . The $17.6 million decrease was mainly attributable to a $20.0 million increase in payment associated with our accrued incentive from prior year. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $4.3 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 , materially consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased to $13.0 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2016 from $41.3 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2015 . The $28.3 million decrease was due to a $39.0 million increase in proceeds, net of payments, from our revolving line of credit, and a $2.5 million increase in proceeds from stock options exercise, partially offset by an $11.1 million increase in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and a $2.1 million increase in repurchases of common stock. Repurchases of Common Stock In July 2016, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program following the completion of our previous program. This program was open-ended and authorized repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. Pursuant to this program, we repurchased 258,176 shares of our common stock at a total repurchase price of $30.4 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2016 . We had $199.6 million remaining under the July 2016 authorization as of December 31, 2016 . Dividends During the quarter ended December 31, 2016 , we paid a quarterly dividend of $0.02 per common share. Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. 23 Table of Contents Revolving Line of Credit We have a $400 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on December 30, 2019. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of our common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate, (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.500% and (c) the one-month LIBOR rate plus 1.000%, plus, in each case, an applicable margin, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable margin. The applicable margin for base rate borrowings ranges from 0% to 0.875% and for LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.875%, and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay credit facility fees. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5 and a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.0, subject to a step up to 3.5 following certain permitted acquisitions. The credit agreement also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2016 , we had $305.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 1.850% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility. Senior Notes On May 7, 2008, we issued $275 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2008 Senior Notes). The 2008 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years. The outstanding 2008 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 7.2% and the weighted average maturity is 10.0 years . On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2010 Senior Notes and, with the 2008 Senior Notes, the Senior Notes). The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years. The 2010 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 5.4% and the weighted average maturity is 8.7 years . The Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The purchase agreements for the Senior Notes also include covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2016 , the carrying value of the Senior Notes was $315.7 million and we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these facilities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements: 24 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition Software Licenses Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue. We use the residual method to recognize revenue when a software arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date provided the following criteria are met: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value does not exist for one or more of the delivered items but exists for all undelivered elements, (ii) all other applicable revenue recognition criteria are met and (iii) the fair value of all of the undelivered elements is less than the arrangement fee. VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period. Transactional-Based Revenues Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and internet delivery services are recognized as these services are performed. Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, network service and internally-hosted software agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts. Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients. In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Consulting Services We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license element because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of our software. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Hosting Services We are an application service provider (ASP), where we provide hosting services that allow customers access to software that resides on our servers. The ASP model typically includes an up-front fee and a monthly commitment from the customer that commences upon completion of the implementation through the remainder of the customer life. The up-front fee is the initial setup fee, or the implementation fee. The monthly commitment includes, but is not limited to, a fixed monthly fee or a transactional fee based on system usage that exceeds monthly minimums. Revenue is recognized from ASP transactions when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the service has been provided to the customer, the amount of fees is fixed or determinable and the collection of our fees is probable. We do not view the activities of signing the contract or providing initial setup services as discrete earnings events. Revenue is typically deferred until the date the customer commences use of our services, at which point the up-front fees are recognized ratably over the expected life of the customer relationship. ASP transactional fees are recorded monthly as earned. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements including Non-Software When we enter into a multiple-deliverable arrangement that includes non-software, each deliverable is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: (i) the delivered item or items have value to the customer on a standalone basis and (ii) for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if we sell this item separately or if the item is sold by another vendor or could be resold by the customer; for example, we conclude professional services offered along with our SaaS subscription services typically have standalone value using this criteria. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to delivered products. Revenue for multiple element arrangements is allocated to the software and non-software deliverables based on a relative selling price. We use VSOE in our allocation of arrangement consideration when it is available. We define VSOE as a median price of recent standalone transactions that are priced within a narrow range, as defined by us. If a product or service is seldom sold separately, it is unlikely that we can determine VSOE. In circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then assess whether we can obtain third-party evidence (TPE) of the selling price. It may be difficult for us to obtain sufficient information on competitor pricing to substantiate TPE and therefore we may not always be able to use TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact if the product or service were sold by us on a standalone basis. Our determination of ESP involves weighting several factors based on the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement. The factors include, but are not limited to, geographies, market conditions, gross margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, customer segment pricing strategies and the product lifecycle. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our ESP used in allocation of arrangement consideration. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates. 26 Table of Contents Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. Business Combinations Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and (iii) the acquired companys brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions. To the extent a significant acquisition is made during a fiscal year, as appropriate we will expand the discussion to include specific assumptions and inputs used to determine the fair value of our acquired intangible assets. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowances or contingencys estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our valuation allowances or uncertain tax positions as it relates to business combinations. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates. 27 Table of Contents Goodwill, Acquisition Intangibles and Other Long-Lived Assets - Impairment Assessment Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. We assess goodwill for impairment for each of our reporting units on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a July 1 measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement. We have determined that our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments. When evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first perform an assessment qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to as a step zero approach. If, based on the review of the qualitative factors, we determine it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we would bypass the two-step impairment test. Events and circumstances we consider in performing the step zero qualitative assessment include macro-economic conditions, market and industry conditions, internal cost factors, share price fluctuations, and the operational stability and the overall financial performance of the reporting units. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount, we would perform the first step (step one) of the two-step impairment test and calculate the estimated fair value of the reporting unit by using discounted cash flow valuation models and by comparing our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies. These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We estimate these amounts by evaluating historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors. Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value. For fiscal 2016 and 2015, we performed a step zero qualitative analysis for our annual assessment of goodwill impairment. After evaluating and weighing all relevant events and circumstances, we concluded that it is not more likely than not that the fair value of any of our reporting units was less their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one quantitative analysis in fiscal 2016 or 2015. For fiscal 2014, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis rather than perform the step zero qualitative assessment. There was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units and we determined goodwill was not impaired for any of our reporting units. Our intangible assets that have finite useful lives and other long-lived assets are assessed for potential impairment when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of our intangible assets or other long-lived assets could occur. We review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets at each reporting period. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods. As discussed above, while we believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management, different assumptions, judgments and estimates could materially affect our impairment assessments for our goodwill, acquired intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets. Historically, there have been no significant changes in our estimates or assumptions that would have had a material impact for our goodwill or intangible assets impairment assessment. We believe our projected operating results and cash flows would need to be significantly less favorable to have a material impact on our impairment assessment. However, based upon our historical experience with operations, we do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood of a significant change in our projections. Share-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years). We use the Black-Scholes valuation model to determine the fair value of our stock options and a Monte Carlo valuation model to determine the fair value of our market share units. Our valuation models and generally accepted valuation techniques require us to make assumptions and to apply judgment to determine the fair value of our awards. These assumptions and judgments include estimating the volatility of our stock price, expected dividend yield, employee turnover rates and employee stock option exercise behaviors. Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions. See Note 10 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements for further discussion of our share-based employee benefit plans. 28 Table of Contents Income Taxes We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision. We estimate our current tax liability using currently enacted tax rates and laws and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate; an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable; and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase. We have historically had minimal changes in our valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets, as described in Note 9 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. Historically, settlements related to our unrecognized tax benefits have been minimal, as described in Note 9 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under Business Combinations above. Contingencies and Litigation We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, shareholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. Historically, there have been no material changes in our estimates or assumptions. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood there will be a material change in the future estimates. 29 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Effective October 1, 2016, we early adopted ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (ASU 2016-09). ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification on the statement of cash flows. As a result of the adoption, we recognized $17.3 million of excess tax benefits related to share-based payments in our provision for income taxes for the quarter ended December 31, 2016. These items were historically recorded as additional paid-in capital. We elected to apply the change retrospectively in presentation to our condensed consolidated statements of cash flows and no longer classified the excess tax benefits from employee stock plans as a reduction from operating cash flows, which resulted in increases to both net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in financing activities of $10.1 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2015. Our adoption of ASU 2016-09 also impacted the calculation of diluted weighted-average shares under the treasury stock method as we no longer increase or decrease the assumed proceeds from an employee vesting in, or exercising, a share-based payment award by the amount of excess tax benefits or deficiencies taken to additional paid-in capital. For the quarter ended December 31, 2016, the impact was immaterial. Given our historical practice of including employee withholding taxes paid within financing activities in the statement of cash flows, no prior period reclassifications are required by the clarifications on classification provided by ASU 2016-09. Furthermore, we elected to continue to estimate expected forfeitures of employee equity awards to determine the amount of compensation expense to be recognized in each period. Effective October 1, 2016, we retrospectively adopted ASU No. 2015-03, Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance (ASU 2015-03). ASU 2015-03 requires an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability, other than those relating to line-of-credit arrangements, in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. As a result of the adoption, at December 31, 2016, the amount of debt issuance costs reflected as a deduction of long-term debt was $0.3 million . At September 30, 2016, the amount of debt issuance costs reclassified from other assets to a deduction of long-term debt was $0.4 million . Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Deferral of the Effective Date (ASU 2015-14), which defers the effective date for ASU 2014-09 by one year. For public entities, the guidance in ASU 2014-09 will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017 (including interim reporting periods within those periods), which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018. Early adoption is permitted to the original effective date of December 15, 2016 (including interim reporting periods within those periods). In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue versus Net) (ASU 2016-08), which clarifies the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations in the new revenue recognition standard. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing (ASU 2016-10), which reduces the complexity when applying the guidance for identifying performance obligations and improves the operability and understandability of the license implementation guidance. In May 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-12 Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients (ASU 2016-12), which amends the guidance on transition, collectability, noncash consideration and the presentation of sales and other similar taxes. In December 2016, the FASB further issued ASU 2016-20, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASU 2016-20), which makes minor corrections or minor improvements to the Codification that are not expected to have a significant effect on current accounting practice or create a significant administrative cost to most entities. The amendments are intended to address implementation issues that were raised by stakeholders and provide additional practical expedients to reduce the cost and complexity of applying the new revenue standard. These amendments have the same effective date as the new revenue standard. Preliminarily, we plan to adopt Topic 606 in the first quarter of our fiscal 2019 using the retrospective transition method, and are continuing to evaluate the impact our pending adoption of Topic 606 will have on our consolidated financial statements. In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory (ASU 2016-16). ASU 2016-16 requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of an intra-entity transfer of an asset other than inventory when the transfer occurs. The guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2018. ASU 2016-16 should be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment directly to retained earnings at the beginning of the period of adoption. Early adoption is permitted in the first interim period of an entity's annual financial 30 Table of Contents statements. We are currently evaluating the timing of our adoption and the impact that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02), which requires lessees to put most leases on their balance sheets but recognize the expenses on their income statements in a manner similar to current practice. ASU 2016-02 states that a lessee would recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the timing of our adoption and the impact that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.