Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by FICO in fiscal 2013. OVERVIEW We are a leader in Decision Management solutions that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions to enhance business performance. Our predictive analytics, which include the industry standard FICO score, and our Decision Management systems power billions of customer decisions each year. We help companies acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses and enter new markets more profitably. Our clients utilize our products and services to facilitate a variety of business processes, including customer marketing and acquisition, account origination, credit and underwriting risk management, fraud loss prevention and control, and client account and policyholder management. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do many insurers, retailers, healthcare organizations, pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO scores, the standard measure in the United States of credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the consumer banking industry, and 72% and 75% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our remaining revenues are primarily derived from the insurance, healthcare and retail industries. Our revenues derived from clients outside the United States have generally grown, and may in the future grow more rapidly than our revenues from domestic clients. International revenues totaled $75.3 million and $72.3 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing 40% and 42% of total consolidated revenues in each of these periods. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from transactional or unit-based software license fees, annual license fees under long-term software license arrangements, transactional fees derived under scoring, network service or internal hosted software arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for approximately 68% and 67% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The recurrence of these revenues is, to a significant degree, dependent upon our clients continued usage of our products and services in their business activities. The more significant activities underlying the use of our products in these areas include: credit and debit card usage or active account levels; lending acquisition, origination and customer management activity; and customer acquisition, cross selling and retention programs. We also derive revenues from other sources which generally do not recur and include, but are not limited to, perpetual or time-based licenses with upfront payment terms and non-recurring consulting service arrangements. 16 Table of Contents Bookings Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance. Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that will generate current and future revenue streams. We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings. Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms. Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license. Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update our initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates. The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability. Transactional and Maintenance Bookings We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by a contractual rate. Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts. We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements. Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated. This variability is primarily caused by the following: The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers industries; Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate. We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract. Professional Services Bookings We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and internal services resources used to complete a project. License Bookings Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract. 17 Table of Contents Bookings Trend Analysis Bookings Bookings Yield* Number of Bookings over $1 Million Weighted- Average Term (in millions) (months) Quarter ended December 31, 2012 $ 82.0 33 % 10 28 Quarter ended December 31, 2011 $ 59.2 21 % 14 22 * Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated. Transactional and maintenance bookings were 33% and 33% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Professional services bookings were 34% and 46% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. License bookings were 33% and 21% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The weighted-average term of bookings achieved measures the average term over which the bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue. As the weighted-average term increases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter decreases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a longer period of time. As the weighted-average term decreases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter increases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a shorter period of time. Management regards the volume of bookings achieved, among other factors, as an important indicator of future revenues, but they are not comparable to, nor should they be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues, and they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties concerning timing and contingencies affecting product delivery and performance. Although many of our contracts contain noncancelable terms, most of our bookings are transactional or service related and are dependent upon estimates such as volume of transactions, number of active accounts, or number of hours incurred. Since these estimates cannot be considered fixed or firm, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings as backlog. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table sets forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the fiscal periods indicated: Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2012 2011 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 124,707 $ 110,216 66 % 65 % $ 14,491 13 % Scores 43,447 42,542 23 % 25 % 905 2 % Tools 21,866 17,591 11 % 10 % 4,275 24 % Total revenue $ 190,020 $ 170,349 100 % 100 % 19,671 12 % 18 Table of Contents Quarter Ended December 31, 2012 Compared to Quarter Ended December 31, 2011 Applications Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 79,625 $ 64,272 $ 15,353 24 % Professional services 26,159 24,327 1,832 8 % License 18,923 21,617 (2,694 ) (12 )% Total $ 124,707 $ 110,216 14,491 13 % Applications segment revenues increased $14.5 million primarily due to a $13.1 million increase in our mobility solutions, a $5.2 million increase in our customer management solutions and a $5.0 million increase in our marketing solutions, partially offset by a $12.1 million decrease in our fraud solutions . The increase in mobility solutions was due to our Adeptra acquisition in September 2012. The increase in customer management solutions was due to increased license and services revenues. The increase in marketing solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and transactional revenue, largely driven by recognition of previously deferred revenue from the early termination of a large customer. The decrease in fraud solutions revenues was primarily due to a decrease in software revenue attributable to large multi-year license transactions during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Scores Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 42,437 $ 42,197 $ 240 1 % Professional services 903 288 615 214 % License 107 57 50 88 % Total $ 43,447 $ 42,542 905 2 % Scores segment revenues increased $0.9 million due to an increase of $0.8 million in our business-to-business Scores revenue and an increase of $0.1 million in our myFICO business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in our business-to-business Scores was primarily attributable to an increase in Credit Bureau Risk Scores revenue, partially offset by a decrease in PreScore revenue. During the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for approximately 15% and 17%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers that are recorded in our other segments. 19 Table of Contents Tools Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 7,836 $ 7,714 $ 122 2 % Professional services 5,275 4,078 1,197 29 % License 8,755 5,799 2,956 51 % Total $ 21,866 $ 17,591 4,275 24 % Tools segment revenues increased $4.3 million primarily due to increased license revenue, which was mainly attributable to an increase in sales of our Blaze product and third-party products in our rules management tools, partially offset by a decrease in our optimization tools; as well as increased professional services revenue related to our Blaze product. Operating Expenses and Other Income (Expense) The following table sets forth certain summary information related to our statements of income and comprehensive income for the fiscal periods indicated: Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage 2012 2011 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands, except employees) (In thousands, except employees) Revenues $ 190,020 $ 170,349 100 % 100 % $ 19,671 12 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 56,148 45,974 29 % 27 % 10,174 22 % Research and development 14,552 13,049 8 % 8 % 1,503 12 % Selling, general and administrative 69,665 57,324 37 % 33 % 12,341 22 % Amortization of intangible assets 3,372 1,930 2 % 1 % 1,442 75 % Restructuring and acquisition-related 3,289 2 % % 3,289 % Total operating expenses 147,026 118,277 78 % 69 % 28,749 24 % Operating income 42,994 52,072 22 % 31 % (9,078 ) (17 )% Interest income 21 88 % % (67 ) (76 )% Interest expense (7,880 ) (7,987 ) (4 )% (5 )% 107 (1 )% Other expense, net (92 ) (548 ) % % 456 (83 )% Income from operations before income taxes 35,043 43,625 18 % 26 % (8,582 ) (20 )% Provision for income taxes 11,622 13,628 6 % 8 % (2,006 ) (15 )% Net income $ 23,421 $ 29,997 12 % 18 % (6,576 ) (22 )% Number of employees at quarter end 2,404 2,047 357 20 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; costs of computer service bureaus; internal network hosting costs; amounts payable to credit reporting agencies for scores; software costs; and expenses related to our business-to-consumer services. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased to 29% for the quarter ended December 31, 2012 from 27% for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The $10.2 million increase was primarily due to a $4.7 million increase in third party software and data costs, a $2.2 million increase in personnel and labor costs, and a $1.7 million increase in outside services cost. The increase in third party software and data costs was mainly related to integration of lower-margin products from our Adeptra acquisition in September 2012, as well as an increase in sales of our other products that require data acquisition. The increase in personnel and costs was primarily attributable to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions. The increase in outside services cost was due to an increase in use of external contractors as a result of increased services revenue. Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Research and Development Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Tools products. The quarter over quarter increase of $1.5 million in research and development expenses was mainly due to a $1.5 million increase in personnel and labor costs, attributable to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions. Research and development as a percentage of revenues was 8% during the quarter ended December 31, 2012, consistent with the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Over the next several quarters, we expect that research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 37% for the quarter end December 31, 2012 from 33% for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The $12.3 million increase was primarily attributable to a $10.8 million increase in labor and personnel costs and a $2.6 million increase in other costs, partially offset by a $1.7 million decrease in marketing expenses. The increase in labor and personnel costs was primarily due to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions, as well as an increase in sales commission expense for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The decrease in marketing expenses was due to a company marketing event held during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Over the next several quarters, we expect that selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from one to fifteen years. The quarter over quarter increase of $1.4 million in amortization expense was attributable to the addition of intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions of Entiera, Adeptra and CR Software, partially offset by certain intangible assets associated with our Dash acquisition becoming fully amortized in January 2012. 21 Table of Contents Over the next several quarters we expect that amortization expense will be slightly lower than the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 due to certain intangible assets associated with our London Bridge acquisition becoming fully amortized. Restructuring and Acquisition-related During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, we incurred net charges totaling $2.5 million primarily consisting of $1.6 million in facilities charges associated with vacating excess leased space in Minnesota, $1.1 million in severance charges due to the elimination of 52 positions primarily in the U.S., and a reversal of $0.2 million of previously recognized severance costs due to favorable adjustments. Cash payments for all the severance costs will be paid by the end of our second quarter of fiscal 2013. Cash payments for all the facilities charges will be paid by fiscal 2014. During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, we also incurred $0.8 million in acquisition-related cost, mainly associated with our CR Software acquisition. There were no restructuring and acquisition-related charges during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. Interest Income Interest income is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. The quarter over quarter decrease in interest income of $0.1 million was attributable to lower average investment balances during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Interest Expense The quarter over quarter decrease in interest expense of $0.1 million was attributable to an $8.0 million principal payment in May 2012 on the Senior Notes issued in May 2008 resulting in lower average debt balance for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Over the next several quarters we expect that interest expense will be lower than levels recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 due to $49 million principal payment due in May 2013. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from re-measurement of foreign-denominated receivable and cash balances into the U.S. dollar functional currency at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting forward exchange contracts, and other non-operating items. Other expense, net in the quarters ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 primarily consisted of foreign exchange currency losses. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2012 was 33.2% compared to 31.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2011. The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the respective full fiscal year. The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution. The quarter over quarter increase in our effective tax rate was due to a higher percentage of revenue expected in higher taxing jurisdictions. Operating Income The following table sets forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the fiscal periods indicated. 22 Table of Contents Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2012 2011 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 32,972 $ 40,126 $ (7,154 ) (18 )% Scores 29,666 29,247 419 1 % Tools 3,461 2,250 1,211 54 % Corporate expenses (10,612 ) (12,864 ) 2,252 (18 )% Total segment operating income 55,487 58,759 (3,272 ) (6 )% Unallocated share-based compensation (5,832 ) (4,757 ) (1,075 ) 23 % Unallocated amortization expense (3,372 ) (1,930 ) (1,442 ) 75 % Unallocated restructuring and acquisition-related (3,289 ) (3,289 ) % Operating income $ 42,994 $ 52,072 (9,078 ) (17 )% Applications Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2012 2011 2012 2011 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 124,707 $ 110,216 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (91,735 ) (70,090 ) (74 )% (64 )% Segment operating income $ 32,972 $ 40,126 26 % 36 % Scores Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2012 2011 2012 2011 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 43,447 $ 42,542 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (13,781 ) (13,295 ) (32 )% (31 )% Segment operating income $ 29,666 $ 29,247 68 % 69 % Tools Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues 2012 2011 2012 2011 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 21,866 $ 17,591 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (18,405 ) (15,341 ) (84 )% (87 )% Segment operating income $ 3,461 $ 2,250 16 % 13 % 23 Table of Contents The quarter over quarter $9.1 million decrease in operating income was mainly attributable to a $25.2 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $3.3 million increase in restructuring and acquisition-related cost, partially offset by a $19.7 million increase in segment revenues. At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $3.3 million decrease in segment operating income was driven by a $7.2 million decrease in segment operating income in our Applications segment, partially offset by a $2.3 million decrease in corporate operating expenses, a $1.2 million increase in our Tools segment operating income, and a $0.4 million increase in our Scores segment operating income. The quarter over quarter decrease in Applications segment operating income was due to a $21.7 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $14.5 million increase in segment revenue primarily attributable to an increase in our mobility solutions revenue. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications decreased from 36% to 26% mainly due to integration of lower margin products from our Adeptra acquisition, as well as a decrease in sales of our higher margin software products. The quarter over quarter increase in Tools segment operating income was attributable primarily to a $4.3 million increase in segment revenue, partially offset by $3.1 million increase in segment operating expense. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Tools increased from 13% to 16% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher margin software products. Capital Resources and Liquidity Outlook As of December 31, 2012, we had $90.8 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable security investments. We believe that these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $200 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $49.0 million principal payment due in May 2013 on our Senior Notes issued in May 2008. Under our current financing arrangements we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents and marketable security investments to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited. Summary of Cash Flows Quarter Ended December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Cash provided by/(used in): Operating activities $ 28,729 $ 41,149 Investing activities (14,567 ) 41,716 Financing activities 5,494 (41,708 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (426 ) (1,534 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 19,230 $ 39,623 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $28.7 during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 from $41.1 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower income for the quarter ended December 31, 2012, as well as a decrease caused by the timing of receipts and payments in the ordinary course of business, including a $10.2 million decrease from timing of accrued compensation and employee benefits payments. 24 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities totaled $14.6 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2012 compared to net cash provided of $41.7 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The change was primarily driven by $27.6 million net cash used for the acquisition of CR Software, as well as a $27.5 million decrease in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities totaled $5.5 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 compared to net cash used of $41.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The change was primarily due to $57.7 million of common stock repurchased in the quarter ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by a decrease in cash generated from stock option exercises during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. Repurchases of Common Stock In August 2012, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to acquire shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $150.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2012, no purchase has been made under this authorization. Dividends During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, we paid a quarterly dividend of two cents per common share, which is representative of the eight cents per year dividend we have paid in recent years. Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. Revolving Line of Credit We have a $200 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on September 28, 2016. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of the Companys common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate and (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or (ii) LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The margin on LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.625% and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay utilization fees if borrowings and commitments under the credit facility exceed 50% of the total credit facility commitment, as well as facility fees. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.0 and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5, and also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2012, we had no borrowings outstanding under the credit facility and were in compliance with all financial covenants. Senior Notes In May 2008, we issued $275 million of Senior Notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors. These Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 6.8% and the weighted average maturity is 7.9 years. In July 2010, we issued $245 million of Senior Notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors. These Senior Notes have a weighted average interest rate of 5.20% and a weighted average maturity of 8 years. All of the Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The purchase agreements for the Senior Notes also include covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2012 we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these facilities. 25 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, the allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Software Licenses Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue. We use the residual method to recognize revenue when a software arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date provided the following criteria are met: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value does not exist for one or more of the delivered items but exists for all undelivered elements, (ii) all other applicable revenue recognition criteria are met and (iii) the fair value of all of the undelivered elements is less than the arrangement fee. VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. When software licenses are sold together with implementation or consulting services, license fees are recognized upon delivery provided that the above criteria are met, payment of the license fees is not dependent upon the performance of the services, and the services do not provide significant customization or modification of the software products and are not essential to the functionality of the software that was delivered. For arrangements with services that are essential to the functionality of the software, the license and related service revenues are recognized using contract accounting as described below. Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period. 26 Table of Contents Transactional-based Revenues Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and internet delivery services are recognized as these services are performed. Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, network service and internally-hosted software agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts. Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients. In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Consulting Services We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. When consulting services qualify for separate accounting, revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Hosting Services We are an application service provider (ASP), where we provide hosting services that allow customers access to software that resides on our servers. The ASP model typically includes an up-front fee and a monthly commitment from the customer that commences upon completion of the implementation through the remainder of the customer life. The up-front fee is the initial setup fee, or the implementation fee. The monthly commitment includes, but is not limited to, a fixed monthly fee or a transactional fee based on system usage that exceeds monthly minimums. Revenue is recognized from ASP transactions when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the service has been provided to the customer, the amount of fees is fixed or determinable and the collection of the Companys fees is probable. We do not view the activities of signing the contract or providing initial setup services as discrete earnings events. Revenue is typically deferred until the date the customer commences use of our services, at which point the up-front fees are recognized ratably over the customer life of the customer arrangement. ASP transactional fees are recorded monthly as earned. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements Including Non-Software When we enter into a multiple-deliverable arrangement that includes non-software, each deliverable is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: (i) the delivered item or items have value to the customer on a standalone basis and (ii) for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if we sell this item separately or if the item is sold by another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to delivered products. Revenue for multiple element arrangements is allocated to the software and non-software deliverables based on a relative selling price. We use VSOE in our allocation of arrangement consideration when it is available. We define VSOE as a median price of recent standalone transactions that are priced within a narrow range, as defined by us. If a product or service is seldom sold separately, it is unlikely that we can determine VSOE. In circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then assess whether we can obtain third-party evidence (TPE) of the selling price. It may be difficult for us to obtain sufficient information on competitor pricing to substantiate TPE and therefore we may not always be able to use TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact if the product or service were sold by us on a standalone basis. Our determination of ESP involves weighting several factors based on the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement. The factors include, but are not limited to, geographies, market conditions, gross margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, customer segment pricing strategies and the product lifecycle. We analyze selling prices used in our allocation of arrangement consideration on an annual basis, or more frequently if necessary. Selling prices will be analyzed more frequently if a significant change in our business necessitates a more timely analysis or if we experience significant variances in our selling prices. 27 Table of Contents Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. Business Combinations Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, and; (iii) the acquired companys brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowances or contingencys estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statement of operations and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make estimates regarding the collectability of our accounts receivable. When we evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts, we analyze specific accounts receivable balances, historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment cycles. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of expense for any period if we were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances might be required. 28 Table of Contents Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairment Assessment Our business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affects the amount of current and future period charges and amortization expense. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, in connection with our business combinations. We amortize our finite-lived intangible assets using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed at least annually for impairment. The determination of the value of these components of a business combination, as well as associated asset useful lives, requires management to make various estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from product sales and services, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts, and acquired developed technologies and patents or trademarks; the acquired companys brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired products and services will continue to be used in our product portfolio; and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value and useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. Estimates using different assumptions, or unanticipated events and circumstances could produce significantly different results. We assess potential impairments to our intangible assets when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified with respect to our previously recorded intangible assets with finite useful lives, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of net intangible assets could occur. We periodically review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit levels, which we have determined are the same as our reportable segments, at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The timing and frequency of our goodwill impairment test is based on an ongoing assessment of events and circumstances that would be an indicator of potential impairment of a reporting unit, with the fair value below its carrying value. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a weighted combination of discounted cash flow valuation model (known as the income approach) and a comparison of our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies (known as the market approach). These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, costs of capital and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We evaluate historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors when estimating these amounts. Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value. The key assumptions that require significant management judgment for the income approach include revenue growth rates and weighted average cost of capital. In our analysis, revenue growth rates were primarily based on third party studies of industry growth rates for each of our reporting units. Within each reporting unit, management refined these estimates based on their knowledge of the product, the needs of our customers and expected market opportunity. The weighted average cost of capital was determined based on publicly available data such as the long-term yield on U.S. treasury bonds, the expected rate of return on high quality bonds and the returns and betas of various equity instruments. As it relates to the market approach, there is less management judgment in determining the fair value of our reporting units other than selecting which guideline publicly-traded companies are included in our peer group. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. In step one of that test we compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The estimated fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value in fiscal 2012, indicating the underlying goodwill of each reporting unit was not impaired as of our most recent testing date. Accordingly, we were not required to complete the second step of the goodwill impairment test and recorded no goodwill impairment charges for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012. As discussed above, estimates of fair value for all of our reporting units can be affected by a variety of external and internal factors. We believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management. The timing and recognition of impairment losses by us in the future, if any, may be highly dependent upon our estimates and assumptions. 29 Table of Contents Share-Based Compensation We account for share-based compensation using the fair value recognition provisions as required in the accounting literature. We estimate the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We estimate the volatility of our common stock at the date of grant based on a combination of the implied volatility of publicly traded options on our common stock and our historical volatility rate. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on historical exercise patterns. The dividend yield assumption is based on historical dividend payouts. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee options. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. For options granted, we amortize the fair value on a straight-line basis. All options are amortized over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. If factors change we may decide to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option valuation model in the future, which could materially affect our share-based compensation expense, net income and earnings per share. Income Taxes We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision. We estimate our current tax liability and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our balance sheet. We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate; an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable; and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under Business Combinations above. Contingencies and Litigation We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, shareholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. 30 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Issued or Adopted On May 12, 2011 the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs (ASU 2011-04). This update amends Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 820, Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure. ASU 2011-04 clarifies the application of certain existing fair value measurement guidance and expands the disclosures for fair value measurements that are estimated using significant unobservable (Level 3) inputs. ASU 2011-04 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011, which means that it became effective for our fiscal year that began on October 1, 2012. Our adoption of ASU 2011-04 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. On September 15, 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-08, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other (Topic 350): Testing Goodwill for Impairment (ASU 2011-08). This update amends the guidance in ASC 350-20 on testing goodwill for impairment. Under the revised guidance, entities testing goodwill for impairment have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the reporting unit (i.e. step 1 of the goodwill impairment test). If entities determine, on the basis of qualitative factors, that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than the carrying amount, the two-step impairment test would be required. ASU 2011-08 does not change how goodwill is calculated or assigned to reporting units, nor does it revise the requirement to test goodwill annually for impairment. In addition, ASU 2011-08 does not amend the requirement to test goodwill for impairment between annual tests if events or circumstances warrant; however, it does revise the examples of events and circumstances that an entity should consider. ASU 2011-08 is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011, which means that it became effective for our fiscal year that began on October 1, 2012. We test our goodwill annually in our fourth fiscal quarter and whenever an event or change in circumstances indicates that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Our adoption of ASU 2011-08 did not have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. On December 16, 2011 the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities. (ASU 2011-11). ASU 2011-11 provides for additional disclosures of both gross information and net information about both instruments and transactions eligible for offset in the statement of financial position and instruments and transactions subject to an agreement similar to a master netting arrangement. This scope would include derivatives, sale and repurchase agreements and reverse sale and repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending arrangements. ASU 2011-11 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after January 1, 2013, which means that it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2013. Retrospective adoption is required. We do not believe that adoption of ASU 2011-11 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements.