Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Item 7). Our reengineering initiative may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer. As part of our management approach, we implemented an ongoing reengineering initiative designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions. Our reengineering initiative may not be successful over the long term as a result of our failure to reduce expenses at the anticipated level, or a lower, or no, positive impact on revenues from strategic resource allocation. If our reengineering initiative is not successful over the long term, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer. The occurrence of certain negative events may cause fluctuations in our stock price. The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations due to a number of factors, including variations in our revenues and operating results. We believe that you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of financial results as an indication of future performance. Because many of our operating expenses are fixed and will not be affected by short-term fluctuations in revenues, short-term fluctuations in revenues may significantly impact operating results. Additional factors that may cause our stock price to fluctuate include the following: 15 Table of Contents variability in demand from our existing customers; failure to meet the expectations of market analysts; changes in recommendations by market analysts; the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues; consumer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products; the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors; the level of our operating expenses; changes in competitive and other conditions in the consumer credit, banking and insurance industries; fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions; our ability to complete large installations on schedule and within budget; acquisition-related expenses and charges; and timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems. In addition, the financial markets have at various times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions may negatively affect our business and require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and business. Our products have long and variable sales cycles. If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately, and our stock price could be adversely affected. We experience difficulty in forecasting our revenues accurately because the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our selling approach is complex as we look to sell multiple products and services across our customers organizations. This makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult. As a result of our sales approach and lengthening sales cycles, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period. For example, the sales cycle for licensing our products typically ranges from 60 days to 18 months. Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customers operational procedures. This may cause customers, particularly those experiencing financial stress, to make purchasing decisions more cautiously. Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur and experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. If we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues, our stock price could be adversely affected. We typically have revenue-generating transactions concentrated in the final weeks of a quarter, which may prevent accurate forecasting of our financial results and cause our stock price to decline. Large portions of our software license agreements are consummated in the weeks immediately preceding quarter end. Before these agreements are consummated, we create and rely on forecasted revenues for planning, modeling and earnings guidance. Forecasts, however, are only estimates and actual results may vary for a particular quarter or longer periods of time. Consequently, significant discrepancies between actual and forecasted results could limit our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance, which could adversely affect our stock price. Any publicly-stated revenue or earnings projections are subject to this risk. The failure to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business. Our DM strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel. The complexity of our products requires highly trained customer service and technical support personnel to assist customers with product installation and deployment. The labor market for these individuals is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding and may become more competitive with general market and economic improvement. We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees. This could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel. We have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel, especially technical, sales and consulting personnel, and we may need additional staff to support new customers and/or increased customer needs. We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the U.S. Limitations imposed by immigration laws in the U.S. and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results. There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources 16 Table of Contents in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed. The failure of the value of our stock to appreciate may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity-based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative and more expensive forms of compensation for this purpose. The failure to obtain certain forms of model construction data from our customers or others could harm our business. We must develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update our products. In most cases, these data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment. We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases. Customers and key business alliances provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models. Our DM strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools. If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business alliances, or if they decline to provide such data due to legal privacy concerns, competition concerns, prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers, we could lose access to required data and our products, and the development of new products, might become less effective. Third parties have asserted copyright interests in these data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using these data. Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed. Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors. Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research. If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business. We expect that products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, will increasingly be subject to claims of patent and other intellectual property infringement as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow. We may need to defend claims that our products infringe intellectual property rights, and as a result we may: incur significant defense costs or substantial damages; be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products; expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology; discontinue the use of some technology; or be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as "patent trolls", have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements. From time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management's attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses. 17 Table of Contents If our security measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer or consumer data is otherwise obtained, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or cease their use of our products and services, our reputation may be damaged and we could incur significant liabilities. Our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of sensitive consumer and customer information. Many of our products are provided by us through the Internet. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of consumer or customer information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our system or to consumer or customer information, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, or to sabotage systems, change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our services. Security compromises experienced by our competitors, by our customers or by us may lead to public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity. Any security compromise in our industry, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to curtail or cease their use of our products and services or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. Protection from system interruptions is important to our business. If we experience a sustained interruption of our telecommunication systems, it could harm our business. Systems or network interruptions could delay and disrupt our ability to develop, deliver or maintain our products and services, causing harm to our business and reputation and resulting in loss of customers or revenue. These interruptions can include fires, floods, earthquakes, power losses, equipment failures and other events beyond our control. Risks Related to Our Industry Our ability to increase our revenues will depend to some extent upon introducing new products and services. If the marketplace does not accept these new products and services, our revenues may decline. We have a significant share of the available market in portions of our Scores segment and for certain services in our Applications segment, specifically, the markets for account management services at credit card processors and credit card fraud detection software. To increase our revenues, we must enhance and improve existing products and continue to introduce new products and new versions of existing products that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. We believe much of the future growth of our business and the success of our DM strategy will rest on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services. Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel. Products that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. We cannot assure you that the marketplace will accept these products. If our current or potential customers are not willing to switch to or adopt our new products and services, either as a result of the quality of these products and services or due to other factors, such as economic conditions, our revenues will decrease. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technology and the use of the Internet. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology or industry standards, or if we fail to bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies; use leading third-party technologies effectively; continue to develop our technical expertise; anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. 18 Table of Contents If our competitors introduce new products and pricing strategies, it could decrease our product sales and market share, or could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that reduces our margins. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors, and this inability could impair our capacity to sell our products. The market for business analytics is new, rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition in this market to persist and intensify. Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include: in-house analytic and systems developers; scoring model builders; enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) packaged solutions providers; business intelligence solutions providers; credit report and credit score providers; business process management solution providers; process modeling tools providers; automated application processing services providers; data vendors; neural network developers and artificial intelligence system builders; third-party professional services and consulting organizations; account/workflow management software providers; and software tools companies supplying modeling, rules, or analytic development tools. We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies, as well as from other technologies. For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing credit card fraud, such as credit cards that contain the cardholders photograph, smart cards, cardholder verification and authentication solutions and other card authorization techniques. Many of our anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products. Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers. Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. For example, TransUnion, Equifax and Experian have formed an alliance that has developed a credit scoring product competitive with our products. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected. Our competitors may be able to sell products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products. This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors. Price reductions by our competitors could negatively impact our margins, and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms. Legislation that is enacted by the U.S. Congress, the states, Canadian provinces, and other countries, and government regulations that apply to us or to our customers may expose us to liability, cause us to incur significant expense, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete. If these laws and regulations require us to change our current products and services, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Legislation and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of government supervision and future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Globally, legislation and governmental regulation also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Both our core businesses and our newer initiatives are affected globally by federal, regional, provincial, state and other jurisdictional regulations, including those in the following significant regulatory areas: Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies. Examples in the U.S. include the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), as amended by the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA); Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models such as state mortgage trigger laws, state inquiries laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit based insurance scores, and the Consumer Credit Directive in the European Union; 19 Table of Contents Fair lending laws, such as the Truth In Lending Act ("TILA") and Regulation Z, as amended by the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009 (Credit CARD Act of 2009), and the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (ECOA) and Regulation B; Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure of personally identifiable information or require security procedures, including but not limited to the provisions of the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act (GLBA); the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH); the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (USA Patriot Act); identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws; Extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as nongovernmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards; Regulations applicable to secondary market participants such as Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that could have an impact on our products; Insurance laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services; The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including, laws governing the use of the Internet and telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials and credit repair; Laws and regulations applicable to operations in other countries, for example, the European Unions Privacy Directive and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification; The implementation of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by federal regulators to manage the financial crisis in the U.S.; Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and the many regulations mandated by that Act, including regulations issued by, and the supervisory and investigative authority of, the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection ("CFPB"); and Laws and regulations regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries. In making credit evaluations of consumers, or in performing fraud screening or user authentication, our customers are subject to requirements of multiple jurisdictions, which may impose onerous and contradictory requirements. Privacy legislation such as GLBA or the European Unions Privacy Directive may also affect the nature and extent of the products or services that we can provide to customers, as well as our ability to collect, monitor and disseminate information subject to privacy protection. In addition to existing regulation, changes in legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. These regulations and amendments to them could affect the demand for or profitability of some of our products, including scoring and consumer products. New regulations pertaining to financial institutions could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products. In response to market disruptions over the past several years, legislators and financial regulators implemented a number of mechanisms designed to add stability to the financial markets, including the provision of direct and indirect assistance to distressed financial institutions, assistance by the banking authorities in arranging acquisitions of weakened banks and broker-dealers, and implementation of programs by the Federal Reserve to provide liquidity to the commercial paper markets. The overall effects of these and other legislative and regulatory efforts on the financial markets are uncertain, and they may not have the intended stabilization effects. Should these or other legislative or regulatory initiatives fail to stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Whether or not legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts designed to address recent economic conditions successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets over the long term, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries. If our clients industries experience uncertainty, it will likely harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2014 , 77% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking and insurance industries. Global economic uncertainty experienced in the U.S. and other key international economies in the past produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations. These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers. Such disruption would result in a decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions. 20 Table of Contents While the rate of account growth in the U.S. bankcard industry has been slowing and many of our large institutional customers have consolidated in recent years, we have generated most of our revenue growth from our bankcard-related scoring and account management businesses by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers. As the banking industry continues to experience contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers. In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses. While we are attempting to expand our sales of consumer credit, banking and insurance products and services into international markets, the risks are greater as these markets are also experiencing substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them. Risk Related to External Conditions Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business. Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services. Global economic uncertainty has produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets in the past. Any economic uncertainty can negatively affect the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve. The potential for disruptions presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations. If global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. Whether or not recent or new legislative or regulatory initiatives or other efforts successfully stabilize and add liquidity to the financial markets, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Given the volatile nature of the global economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In operations outside the U.S., we are subject to unique risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A growing portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. During fiscal 2014, 42% of our revenues were derived from business outside the U.S. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S., including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to result in growth for our business. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services; difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries; effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information; import and export licensing requirements; longer payment cycles; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; currency fluctuations; changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; and difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges in the near term. Additionally, some of our business will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are not currently material to our cash flows, financial position or results of operations. However, an increase in our foreign revenues could subject us to increased foreign currency transaction risks in the future. 21 Table of Contents In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations. We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks. If such risks materialize, our business could be damaged. Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of FICO, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include giving our board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or discouraging a third party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 2. Properties Our properties consist primarily of leased office facilities for sales, data processing, research and development, consulting and administrative personnel. Our principal locations include: approximately 45,000 square feet of office space in San Jose, California in one building under a lease expiring in fiscal 2017; this is used for our corporate headquarters and all of our segments; approximately 124,000 square feet of office space in San Rafael, California in one building under a lease expiring in fiscal 2020; this is used for all of our segments; approximately 101,000 square feet of office, data center, and data processing space in Roseville, Brooklyn Park and Minneapolis, Minnesota, in three buildings under leases expiring in fiscal 2016 or later; this is used for all of our segments; approximately 80,000 square feet of office space in San Diego, California in one building under a lease expiring in fiscal 2020; this is used for Applications and Tools segments. In addition, we lease an aggregate of approximately 234,000 square feet of office and data center space in a number of smaller domestic locations and internationally in India, the United Kingdom, China, Singapore, and several other locations. We believe that suitable additional space will be available to accommodate future needs. See Note 18 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for information regarding our obligations under leases. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Not Applicable. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 22 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol: FICO. According to records of our transfer agent, at September 30, 2014 , we had 445 shareholders of record of our common stock. The following table shows the high and low sales prices for our stock, as listed on the New York Stock Exchange for each quarter in the last two fiscal years: High Low Fiscal 2013 October 1 December 31, 2012 $ 47.86 $ 40.47 January 1 March 31, 2013 $ 46.32 $ 42.62 April 1 June 30, 2013 $ 50.93 $ 41.33 July 1 September 30, 2013 $ 55.80 $ 45.80 Fiscal 2014 October 1 December 31, 2013 $ 63.48 $ 52.90 January 1 March 31, 2014 $ 62.49 $ 50.26 April 1 June 30, 2014 $ 63.87 $ 50.49 July 1 September 30, 2014 $ 65.62 $ 54.38 Dividends We paid dividends of two cents per share on a quarterly basis during each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 . Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds Not applicable. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (2) Maximum Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (2) July 1, 2014 through July 31, 2014 894,179 $ 63.54 878,808 $ 101,647 August 1, 2014 through August 31, 2014 2,362 $ 55.54 $ 250,000,000 September 1, 2014 through September 30, 2014 7,060 $ 60.04 $ 250,000,000 Total 903,601 $ 63.49 878,808 $ 250,000,000 (1) Includes 24,793 shares delivered in satisfaction of the tax withholding obligations resulting from the vesting of restricted stock units held by employees during the quarter ended September 30, 2014 . (2) On April 22, 2014, our Board of Directors approved an open-ended stock repurchase program to acquire shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $150.0 million in the open market or through negotiated transactions. Following the completion of the April 2014 program, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program on August 18, 2014. The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. 23 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph shows the total stockholder return of an investment of $100 in cash on September 30, 2009, in (a) the Companys Common Stock (b) the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and (c) the Standard & Poors 500 Application Software Index, in each case with reinvestment of dividends. We do not believe there are any publicly traded companies that compete with us across the full spectrum of our product and service offerings. 24 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data We acquired Entiera, Inc. (Entiera) in May 2012, Adeptra Ltd. (Adeptra) in September 2012, CR Software, LLC. (CR Software) in November 2012, Infoglide Software, Inc. (Infoglide) in April 2013, and InfoCentricity in April 2014. Results of operations from the acquisitions are included prospectively from their respective acquisition dates and did not materially impact comparability of the data presented below. Year Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (In thousands, except per share data) Revenues $ 788,985 $ 743,444 $ 676,423 $ 619,683 $ 605,643 Operating income 161,868 161,593 168,358 127,337 113,349 Net income 94,879 90,095 92,004 71,562 64,457 Basic earnings per share 2.80 2.55 2.64 1.82 1.44 Diluted earnings per share 2.72 2.48 2.55 1.79 1.42 Dividends declared per share 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.08 0.08 September 30, 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 (In thousands) Working capital $ (52,877 ) $ 83,308 $ 49,720 $ 217,983 $ 225,028 Total assets 1,192,298 1,161,547 1,158,611 1,129,468 1,123,716 Senior Notes 447,000 455,000 504,000 512,000 520,000 Revolving line of credit 99,000 15,000 Stockholders equity 454,614 530,677 474,406 465,494 474,914 25 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW Our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) includes the following: a business overview that provides a high level summary of our operating results and bookings trends that affect our business; a more detailed analysis of our results of operations; our liquidity and capital resources, which discusses key aspects of our statements of cash flows, changes in our balance sheets and our financial commitments; and a summary of our critical accounting policies and estimates we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. Our MD&A should be read in conjunction with Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those referred to herein due to a number of factors, including but not limited to risks described in the Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Overview Total revenues for fiscal 2014 were $789.0 million , an increase of 6% from $743.4 million in fiscal 2013 . Revenue in each of our segments increased, with Applications, Scores and Tools increasing by 6% , 3% and 14% in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 , respectively. Our revenues derived from clients outside the U.S. have generally grown, and may in the future grow more rapidly than our revenues from domestic clients. International revenues totaled $331.7 million for fiscal 2014 , an increase of 13% from $294.0 million in fiscal 2013 , representing 42% and 40% of total consolidated revenues in each of these years. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 74% and 73% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenue from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under scoring, network service or internal hosted software arrangements, annual software maintenance fees and annual license fees under long-term software license arrangements. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for approximately 67% and 69% of our revenues during fiscal 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Operating income for fiscal 2014 was 161.9 million , an increase of $0.3 million from $161.6 million in fiscal 2013 . Operating margin decreased to 21% from 22% primarily attributable to our continued investment in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS, partially offset by a higher percentage of revenues derived from our higher-margin software products. Net income for fiscal 2014 was $94.9 million , an increase of 5% from $90.1 million in fiscal 2013 . Diluted earnings per share for fiscal 2014 was $2.72 , an increase of 10% from $2.48 in fiscal 2013 . We generate significant free cash flow used to enhance shareholder value through investments in long-term growth initiatives; acquisitions of relevant technologies and products that strengthen our portfolio and competitive position; and our share repurchase program. During fiscal 2014, we continued to invest in our growth initiatives that expand our addressable markets. We introduced a full suite of applications for the FICO Analytic Cloud, expanding product offerings in our Applications and Tools segments to accommodate small-to-midsize companies that benefit from the affordability and simplicity of cloud-based solutions. For our Scores segment, we introduced the FICO Score Open Access program which allows our participating clients to provide their customers with a free FICO Score along with materials to help them understand what affects their score. We have more than 30 million consumers with access to their free score through the FICO Score Open Access program and with the addition of new participants we expect this to grow to more than 60 million in early 2015. In addition, we introduced the FICO Custom Credit Education program where lenders can license enhanced credit education tools to include in their consumer financial education programs. We continued to make acquisitions that deliver solutions to the financial services industry and adjacent vertical industries; our recent acquisitions of InfoCentricity and Karmasphere are expected to benefit customers of all sizes and across all industries by leveraging cloud-based analytics modeling technology along with the Big Data analytics for Hadoop technology capabilities. We also returned significant cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During fiscal 2014 , we repurchased approximately 3.7 million shares for a total cost of $214.9 million . As of September 30, 2014, we had $250.0 million remaining under our current stock repurchase program. 26 Table of Contents Bookings Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance. Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that generate current and future revenue streams. We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings. Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms. Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license. Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates. The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability. Transactional and Maintenance Bookings We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by the contractual rate. Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts. We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements. Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated. This variability is primarily caused by the following: The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers industries; Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate. We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract. Professional Services Bookings We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and customer resources used to complete a project. License Bookings Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract. Bookings Trend Analysis Bookings Bookings Yield (1) Number of Bookings over $1 Million Weighted- Average Term (2) (in millions) (months) Quarter ended September 30, 2014 $ 85.8 26 % 12 22 Quarter ended September 30, 2013 $ 91.3 29 % 18 22 Year ended September 30, 2014 $ 362.3 38 % 63 N/M Year ended September 30, 2013 $ 328.2 42 % 61 N/M (1) Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated. (2) NM Measure is not meaningful as our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update our initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Transactional and maintenance bookings were 28% and 40% of total bookings for the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Professional services bookings were 51% and 41% of total bookings for the quarters ended September 27 Table of Contents 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. License bookings were 21% and 19% of total bookings for the quarters ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Transactional and maintenance bookings were 29% and 37% of total bookings for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Professional services bookings were 47% and 41% of total bookings for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. License bookings were 24% and 22% of total bookings for the years ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. The weighted-average term of bookings achieved measures the average term over which the bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue. As the weighted-average term increases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter decreases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a longer period of time. As the weighted-average term decreases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter increases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a shorter period of time. Management regards the volume of bookings achieved, among other factors, as an important indicator of future revenues, but they are not comparable to, nor substituted for, an analysis of our revenues, and they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties concerning timing and contingencies affecting product delivery and performance. Although many of our contracts contain non-cancelable terms, most of our bookings are transactional or service related and are dependent upon estimates such as volume of transactions, number of active accounts, or number of hours incurred. Since these estimates cannot be considered fixed or firm, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings as backlog. Segment Information We are organized into the following three reportable segments: Applications, Scores and Tools. Although we sell solutions and services into a large number of end user product and industry markets, our reportable business segments reflect the primary method in which management organizes and evaluates internal financial information to make operating decisions and assess performance. Comparative segment revenues, operating income, and related financial information for the years ended September 30, 2014, 2013 and 2012 are set forth in Note 17 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 : Revenues Year Ended September 30, Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change Segment 2014 2013 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 504,256 $ 476,084 $ 424,604 $ 28,172 $ 51,480 6 % 12 % Scores 186,469 180,813 175,623 5,656 5,190 3 % 3 % Tools 98,260 86,547 76,196 11,713 10,351 14 % 14 % Total Revenues $ 788,985 $ 743,444 $ 676,423 45,541 67,021 6 % 10 % Percentage of Revenues Year Ended September 30, Segment 2014 2013 2012 Applications 64 % 64 % 63 % Scores 24 % 24 % 26 % Tools 12 % 12 % 11 % Total Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % 28 Table of Contents Applications Year Ended September 30, Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change 2014 2013 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 313,316 $ 306,738 $ 263,726 $ 6,578 $ 43,012 2 % 16 % Professional services 121,100 110,081 104,637 11,019 5,444 10 % 5 % License 69,840 59,265 56,241 10,575 3,024 18 % 5 % Total $ 504,256 $ 476,084 $ 424,604 28,172 51,480 6 % 12 % Applications segment revenues increased $28.2 million in fiscal 2014 from fiscal 2013 primarily due to a $17.3 million increase in our fraud solutions, a $9.6 million increase in our customer communication solutions, a $5.0 million increase in our originations solutions, and a $4.8 million increase in our collections & recovery solutions. The increase was partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in our marketing solutions and a $3.2 million decrease in our customer management solutions. The increase in fraud solutions was primarily attributable to two large multi-year license transactions during fiscal 2014. The increase in customer communication solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenues as a result of our growth in the mobile communication market. The increase in originations solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in license and services revenues. The increase in collections & recovery solutions was primarily attributable to an increase in services revenues. The decrease in marketing solutions was primarily attributable to the early termination of a large customer in fiscal 2013, partially offset by a large deal entered into in fiscal 2014 to develop customized software solutions for a new customer. The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in license revenue. Applications segment revenues increased $51.5 million in fiscal 2013 from fiscal 2012 primarily due to a $51.1 million increase in our customer communications solutions and an $11.1 million increase in our collections & recovery solutions, partially offset by a $6.5 million decrease in our customer management solutions and a $3.5 million decrease in our marketing solutions. The increase in customer communication solutions was attributable to our Adeptra acquisition in September 2012. The increase in collections & recovery solutions was primarily attributable to our CR Software acquisition in November 2012, partially offset by a decrease in revenues generated from our FICO Debt Manager product. The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in software revenue driven by a large license transaction in fiscal 2012. The decrease in marketing solutions was primarily attributable to the early termination of a large customer in December 2012. Scores Year Ended September 30, Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change 2014 2013 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 178,023 $ 175,281 $ 172,218 $ 2,742 $ 3,063 2 % 2 % Professional services 2,784 4,012 2,382 (1,228 ) 1,630 (31 )% 68 % License 5,662 1,520 1,023 4,142 497 273 % 49 % Total $ 186,469 $ 180,813 $ 175,623 5,656 5,190 3 % 3 % Scores segment revenues increased $5.7 million in fiscal 2014 from 2013 due to a $3.5 million increase in our myFICO business-to-consumer services revenues and a $2.2 million increase in our business-to-business scores revenues . The increase in our myFICO business-to-consumer services was attributable to a $4.2 million increase in direct sales generated from the myFICO.com website, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers 29 Table of Contents through credit reporting agencies. The increase in our business-to-business scores revenues was primarily attributable to increased software revenue related to our Global FICO Score. Scores segment revenues increased $5.2 million in fiscal 2013 from 2012 due to a $5.8 million increase in our myFICO business-to-consumer services revenues partially offset by a $0.6 million decrease in our business-to-business scores revenues . The increase in our myFICO business-to-consumer services was attributable to a $6.8 million increase in direct sales generated from the myFICO.com website, partly driven by the availability of FICO scores generated using the consumer data of one credit reporting agency following an agreement with the credit reporting agency in May 2013. The increase was partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 , revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian, collectively accounted for approximately 15% , 16% and 18% , respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers recorded in our other segments. Tools Year Ended September 30, Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change 2014 2013 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 36,224 $ 32,285 $ 30,231 $ 3,939 $ 2,054 12 % 7 % Professional services 25,950 21,101 17,952 4,849 3,149 23 % 18 % License 36,086 33,161 28,013 2,925 5,148 9 % 18 % Total $ 98,260 $ 86,547 $ 76,196 11,713 10,351 14 % 14 % Tools segment revenues increased $11.7 million primarily due to an $8.5 million increase in our optimization tools and a $2.2 million increase in our predictive modeling tools. The increase in optimization tools was primarily attributable to increased license sales on our FICO Decision Optimizer and FICO Xpress Optimization products. The increase in predictive modeling tools was primarily attributable to increased services revenue related to our FICO Model Central product. Tools segment revenues increased $10.4 million primarily due to a $4.8 million increase in our rules management tools and a $4.0 million increase in our predictive modeling tools. The increase in rules management tools was primarily attributable to increased services revenue related to our FICO Blaze Advisor and third-party products. The increase in predictive modeling tools was primarily attributable to increased license sales in our FICO Model Central product. 30 Table of Contents Operating Expenses and Other Income (Expense), Net The following tables set forth certain summary information related to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 : Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change Year Ended September 30, 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands, except employees) (In thousands, except employees) Revenues $ 788,985 $ 743,444 $ 676,423 $ 45,541 $ 67,021 6 % 10 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 249,281 229,468 197,947 19,813 31,521 9 % 16 % Research and development 83,435 66,967 59,527 16,468 7,440 25 % 12 % Selling, general and administrative 278,203 268,395 238,522 9,808 29,873 4 % 13 % Amortization of intangible assets 11,917 13,535 6,944 (1,618 ) 6,591 (12 )% 95 % Restructuring and acquisition-related 4,281 3,486 5,125 795 (1,639 ) 23 % (32 )% Total operating expenses 627,117 581,851 508,065 45,266 73,786 8 % 15 % Operating income 161,868 161,593 168,358 275 (6,765 ) % (4 )% Interest expense, net (28,550 ) (30,227 ) (31,417 ) 1,677 1,190 (6 )% (4 )% Other income (expense), net (187 ) 618 (698 ) (805 ) 1,316 (130 )% (189 )% Income before income taxes 133,131 131,984 136,243 1,147 (4,259 ) (9 )% (3 )% Provision for income taxes 38,252 41,889 44,239 (3,637 ) (2,350 ) (9 )% (5 )% Net income $ 94,879 $ 90,095 $ 92,004 4,784 (1,909 ) 5 % (2 )% Number of employees at fiscal year-end 2,646 2,482 2,315 164 167 7 % 7 % Percentage of Revenues Year Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2012 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 31 % 31 % 29 % Research and development 11 % 9 % 9 % Selling, general and administrative 35 % 36 % 35 % Amortization of intangible assets 1 % 2 % 1 % Restructuring and acquisition-related 1 % % 1 % Total operating expenses 79 % 78 % 75 % Operating income 21 % 22 % 25 % Interest expense, net (4 )% (4 )% (5 )% Income before income taxes 17 % 18 % 20 % Provision for income taxes 5 % 6 % 6 % Net income 12 % 12 % 14 % 31 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; costs of computer service bureaus; internal network hosting costs; amounts payable to credit reporting agencies for scores; software costs; and expenses related to our consumer score services through myFICO.com. The fiscal year 2014 over 2013 increase of $19.8 million was primarily due to an $11.2 million increase in personnel and labor costs, a $5.3 million increase in outside services cost, and a $2.7 million increase in allocated facilities cost, partially offset by a $3.2 million decrease in direct materials. The increase in personnel and labor costs was primarily attributable to an increase in incentive cost, as well as an increase in salaries and benefits cost as a result of our increased headcount. The increase in outside services cost was primarily attributable to an increase in our billable consulting projects utilizing temporary resources. The increase in allocated facilities cost was primarily attributable to leased office space assumed from our acquisitions of CR Software and Infoglide in fiscal 2013, and InfoCentricity in fiscal 2014. The decrease in direct materials was primarily attributable to a decrease in software license sales that incur royalties cost. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues was 31%, consistent with those incurred during fiscal 2013. Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased to 31% during fiscal 2013 from 29% during fiscal 2012. The $31.5 million increase was primarily due to a $14.9 million increase in third-party software and data costs, an $11.2 million increase in personnel and labor costs, a $2.3 million increase in travel cost and a $1.8 million increase in outside services cost. The increase in third-party software and data costs was mainly related to integration of lower-margin products from our Adeptra and CR Software acquisitions in September and November 2012, respectively, as well as an increase in sales of our other products that require data acquisition. The increase in personnel and labor costs was primarily attributable to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions. The increase in travel cost was primarily attributable to an increase in services revenue requiring travel to client locations. The increase in outside services cost was due to an increase in use of external contractors as a result of increased services revenue. In fiscal 2015 , we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during fiscal 2014 . Research and Development Research and development expenses include the personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including the research of mathematical and statistical models and the development of new versions of our products. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 11% during fiscal 2014 from 9% during fiscal 2013. The $16.5 million increase was attributable to an $11.5 million increase in personnel and labor costs, a $3.0 million increase in outside services cost, and a $2.0 million increase in allocated facilities cost, all driven by our continued investment in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. The fiscal year 2013 over 2012 increase of $7.4 million in research and development expenses was primarily attributable to an $8.5 million increase in personnel and labor costs, attributable to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues was 9% during the year ended September 30, 2013, consistent with those incurred during the year ended September 30, 2012. In fiscal 2015 , we expect that research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during fiscal 2014 as we continue to invest in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems. The fiscal year 2014 over 2013 increase of $9.8 million in selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily attributable to a $7.9 million increase in labor and personnel costs and a $2.3 million increase in marketing cost. The increase in labor and personnel costs was primarily due to an increase in stock-based compensation cost driven by the increase in our stock price, as well as an increase in incentive cost. The increase in marketing cost was primarily attributable to several new marketing programs implemented in fiscal 2014. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 35% for the year ended September 30, 2014 from 36% for the year ended September 30, 2013 primarily attributable to FICO shifting resources to research and development efforts in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. 32 Table of Contents Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues was 36% for the year ended September 30, 2013 as compared to 35% for the year ended September 30, 2012. The $29.9 million increase was primarily attributable to a $15.7 million increase in labor and personnel costs, a $4.4 million increase in equipment and software depreciation cost, a $3.3 million increase in travel cost and a $2.9 million increase in allocated facilities and infrastructure costs. The increase in labor and personnel costs was primarily due to the increased headcount as a result of our recent acquisitions. The increase in equipment and software depreciation cost was due to timing of fixed assets placed in service. The increase in travel cost was primarily due to increased non-revenue producing travel activities as a result of our recent acquisitions. The increase in allocated facilities and infrastructure costs was primarily due to increased resource requirement as a result of our recent acquisitions. In fiscal 2015 , we expect that selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during fiscal 2014 . Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with our acquisitions. Our finite-lived intangible assets consist primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, which are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from five to fifteen years. The fiscal 2014 over fiscal 2013 decrease in amortization expense of $1.6 million was primarily attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our Dash and London Bridge acquisitions becoming fully amortized in fiscal 2013, partially offset by the addition of intangible assets associated with our Infoglide acquisition in fiscal 2013 and InfoCentricity acquisition in fiscal 2014. The fiscal 2013 over fiscal 2012 increase in amortization expense of $6.6 million was attributable to the addition of intangible assets associated with our recent acquisitions of Entiera, Adeptra, CR Software and Infoglide, partially offset by certain intangible assets associated with our Dash and London Bridge acquisitions becoming fully amortized in January 2012 and May 2013, respectively. In fiscal 2015 , we expect amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense incurred in 2014 . Restructuring and Acquisition-related In fiscal 2014 , we incurred net charges totaling $4.1 million consisting of $0.2 million in facilities charges and $3.9 million in severance charges due to the elimination of 88 positions throughout the company. Cash payments for all the restructuring charges will be paid by the end of the second quarter of our fiscal 2015. We also incurred $0.2 million in acquisition-related cost primarily associated with our InfoCentricity acquisition. In fiscal 2013, we incurred $1.0 million in acquisition-related cost mainly associated with our CR Software and Infoglide acquisitions. We also incurred net charges totaling $2.5 million consisting of severance costs and costs for vacating excess leased space. Cash payments for all the severance costs were paid during fiscal 2013. Cash payments for all the facilities charges have been paid by the end of fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2012, we incurred $1.1 million in acquisition-related cost in association with the Adeptra and Entiera acquisitions. We also eliminated 85 positions mainly within the product and technology organization of the Company and incurred $4.0 million for severance costs. Cash payments for all the severance costs had been paid by the end of fiscal 2013. The following table sets forth certain summary information on restructuring expenses for the fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 : Year Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands) Severance costs $ 3,963 $ 842 $ 3,978 Lease exit costs and other adjustments 167 1,624 Total restructuring expense $ 4,130 $ 2,466 $ 3,978 Interest Expense, Net Interest expense included primarily interest on the senior notes issued in May 2008 and July 2010, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. Interest expense is netted with interest income, which is derived primarily 33 Table of Contents from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements, on our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. The fiscal 2014 over 2013 decrease in net interest expense of $1.7 million was primarily attributable to the $8.0 million and $49.0 million principal payment in May 2014 and 2013, respectively, on the senior notes issued in May 2008 resulting in lower average debt balance for fiscal 2014. The fiscal 2013 over 2012 decrease in net interest expense of $1.2 million was primarily attributable to the $49.0 million and $8.0 million principal payment in May 2013 and 2012, respectively, on the senior notes issued in May 2008 resulting in lower average debt balance for fiscal 2013, partially offset by lower average investment balances during fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2015 , we expect that net interest expense will be lower than what we incurred during fiscal 2014 due to the $71.0 million principal payment expected in May 2015 on the senior notes issued in May 2008. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from re-measurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances held by our various reporting entities into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts, and other non-operating items. Net other expense was $0.2 million in fiscal 2014, compared to net other income of 0.6 million in 2013. The change was primarily attributable to a nonrecurring charge related to our fixed assets balance as well as an increase in foreign currency exchange losses during fiscal 2014. Net other income was $0.6 million in fiscal 2013, compared to net other expense of $0.7 million in 2012. The change was primarily attributable to a decrease in foreign exchange losses, as well as a one-time vendor termination fee during fiscal 2012. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rates were 28.7% , 31.7% and 32.5% in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2014 compared to fiscal 2013 was due primarily to the favorable settlement of the fiscal 2010 - 2012 Federal IRS audits and secondly, due to a higher percentage of revenue in lower taxing jurisdictions. The decrease in our effective tax rate in fiscal 2013 compared to fiscal 2012 was primarily due to the reenactment of the U.S. Federal Research and Development Credit in 2013, as well as the expiration of the U.S. Federal Research and Development credit and a one-time tax impact of a legal entity restructuring charge in 2012. As of September 30, 2014 the Company has reported $49.9 million of unremitted earnings of the international subsidiaries in our consolidated income. U.S. income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of international subsidiaries. It is our intention to reinvest these earnings permanently or to repatriate the earnings only when it is tax efficient to do so. The amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability depends on judgment required to analyze the withholding tax due, the applicable tax law and related tax treaties, and factual circumstances in effect at the time of any such distribution, therefore, we believe it is not practicable at this time to reliably determine the amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the Companys undistributed earnings. If circumstances change and it becomes apparent that some or all of the undistributed earnings of a subsidiary will be remitted in the next twelve months and income taxes have not been recognized by the parent entity, the parent entity shall accrue as an expense of the current period income taxes attributable to that remittance. 34 Table of Contents Operating Income The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 : Year Ended September 30, Period-to-Period Change Period-to-Period Percentage Change Segment 2014 2013 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 2014 to 2013 2013 to 2012 (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 169,494 $ 141,131 $ 139,116 $ 28,363 $ 2,015 20 % 1 % Scores 142,282 130,267 123,625 12,015 6,642 9 % 5 % Tools 4,203 19,469 19,236 (15,266 ) 233 (78 )% 1 % Unallocated corporate expenses (101,551 ) (86,403 ) (80,321 ) (15,148 ) (6,082 ) 18 % 8 % Total segment operating income 214,428 204,464 201,656 9,964 2,808 5 % 1 % Unallocated share-based compensation (36,362 ) (25,850 ) (21,229 ) (10,512 ) (4,621 ) 41 % 22 % Unallocated amortization expense (11,917 ) (13,535 ) (6,944 ) 1,618 (6,591 ) (12 )% 95 % Unallocated restructuring and acquisition-related (4,281 ) (3,486 ) (5,125 ) (795 ) 1,639 23 % (32 )% Operating income $ 161,868 $ 161,593 $ 168,358 275 (6,765 ) % (4 )% Applications Year Ended September 30, Percentage of Revenues 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 504,256 $ 476,084 $ 424,604 100 % 100 % 100 % Segment operating expenses (334,762 ) (334,953 ) (285,488 ) (66 )% (70 )% (67 )% Segment operating income $ 169,494 $ 141,131 $ 139,116 34 % 30 % 33 % Scores Year Ended September 30, Percentage of Revenues 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 186,469 $ 180,813 $ 175,623 100 % 100 % 100 % Segment operating expenses (44,187 ) (50,546 ) (51,998 ) (24 )% (28 )% (30 )% Segment operating income $ 142,282 $ 130,267 $ 123,625 76 % 72 % 70 % Tools Year Ended September 30, Percentage of Revenues 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 98,260 $ 86,547 $ 76,196 100 % 100 % 100 % Segment operating expenses (94,057 ) (67,078 ) (56,960 ) (96 )% (78 )% (75 )% Segment operating income $ 4,203 $ 19,469 $ 19,236 4 % 22 % 25 % 35 Table of Contents The increase in operating income between fiscal 2014 and 2013 of $0.3 million was primarily attributable to a $45.5 million increase in segment revenues and a $1.6 million decrease in amortization expense, partially offset by a $20.4 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $15.1 million increase in unallocated corporate expenses, a $10.5 million increase in share-based compensation expense and a $0.8 million increase in restructuring and acquisition-related expenses. At the segment level, the $10.0 million increase in segment operating income was driven by a $28.4 million increase in our Applications segment and a $12.0 million increase in our Scores segment, partially offset by a $15.1 million increase in unallocated corporate expenses and a $15.3 million decrease in our Tools segment. The $28.4 million increase in Applications segment operating income was attributable to a $28.2 million increase in segment revenues and a $0.2 million decrease in segment operating expenses. The increase in segment revenues was primarily attributable to two large multi-year license transactions in fraud solutions and increased transactional and services revenues in customer communication solutions. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Applications increased to 34% from 30% primarily due to FICO shifting resources to cloud computing mainly in the Tools segment, a reduction in sales workforce as part of our restructuring during the first quarter of our fiscal 2014, as well as increased sales of higher-margin software products. The $12.0 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $6.4 million decrease in segment operating expenses and a $5.6 million increase in segment revenues. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Scores was increased to 76% from 72% mainly due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, as well as decreased third-party data cost as a result of favorable terms in a renewed agreement with one credit reporting agency in May 2013. The $15.3 million decrease in Tools segment operating income was attributable primarily to a $27.0 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by an $11.7 million increase in segment revenues. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Tools decreased to 4% from 22% mainly due to an increase in the research and development efforts related to our cloud-based FICO Decision Management Platform as well as our FICO Model Central Solution. The $15.1 million increase in unallocated corporate expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in incentive cost. The decrease in operating income between fiscal 2013 and 2012 of $6.8 million was primarily attributable to a $58.1 million increase in segment operating expenses, a $6.6 million increase in amortization expense, a $6.1 million increase in unallocated corporate expenses and a $4.6 million increase in share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $67.0 million increase in segment revenues and a $1.6 million decrease in restructuring and acquisition-related expenses. At the segment level, the $2.8 million increase in segment operating income was driven by a $6.7 million increase in our Scores segment, a $2.0 million increase in our Applications segment and a $0.2 million increase in our Tools segment, partially offset by a $6.1 million increase in unallocated corporate expenses. The $2.0 million increase in Applications segment operating income was attributable to a $51.5 million increase in segment revenues, partially offset by a $49.5 million increase in segment operating expenses. The increases in both segment revenues and segment operating expenses were primarily related to our Adeptra and CR Software acquisitions. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Applications decreased to 30% from 33% mainly due to increased sales of lower-margin products from our Adeptra and CR Software acquisitions. The $6.7 million increase in Scores segment operating income was attributable to a $5.2 million increase in segment revenues, primarily due to increased revenues generated from our myFICO business-to-consumer services and a $1.5 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Scores was 72% for fiscal 2013, materially consistent with fiscal 2012. The $0.2 million increase in Tools segment operating income was attributable primarily to a $10.3 million increase in segment revenues, partially offset by a $10.1 million increase in segment operating expenses. The increase in segment revenues was primarily due to an increase of services and software revenues related to our FICO Blaze Advisor and FICO Model Central products. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenues for Tools decreased to 22% from 25% mainly due to an increase in our lower-margin services revenues and third-party software product sales. 36 Table of Contents CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Outlook As of September 30, 2014 , we had $105.1 million in cash and cash equivalents which included $83.8 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $200 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements as well as the $71.0 million principal payment due in May 2015 on our senior notes issued in May 2008. Under our current financing arrangements we have no other significant debt obligations maturing over the next twelve months. Additionally, we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited. Summary of Cash Flows Year Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2012 (In thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 175,034 $ 136,120 $ 129,746 Investing activities (19,843 ) (34,971 ) (65,670 ) Financing activities (130,391 ) (86,634 ) (128,453 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (2,903 ) (2,946 ) 234 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 21,897 $ 11,569 $ (64,143 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $175.0 million in fiscal 2014 compared to $136.1 million in fiscal 2013 . The $38.9 million increase was mainly attributable to a $40.4 million increase caused by the timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business, including a $29.2 million increase caused by timing of payment on accrued compensation and employee benefits. Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $136.1 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $129.7 million in fiscal 2012 . The $6.4 million increase, despite $1.9 million decrease in net income, was mainly attributable to an increase in non-cash charges to depreciation and amortization, deferred income taxes and share-based compensation, partially offset by a decrease caused by the timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities totaled $19.8 million in fiscal 2014 compared to $35.0 million in fiscal 2013 . The $15.2 million decrease was primarily attributable to a $25.6 million decrease in net cash used for acquisitions and an $11.6 million decrease in net cash used for purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by a $22.0 million decrease in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $35.0 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $65.7 million in fiscal 2012 . The $30.7 million decrease was primarily attributable to a $90.8 million decrease in net cash used for acquisitions, partially offset by a $61.6 million decrease in proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities totaled $130.4 million in fiscal 2014 compared to $86.6 million in fiscal 2013 . The $43.8 million increase was primarily due to a $134.3 million increase in common stock repurchased and a $23.7 million 37 Table of Contents decrease in cash generated from stock option exercises, partially offset by a $72.7 million increase in proceeds, net of payments from our revolving line of credit and a $41.0 million decrease in payment on our senior notes. Net cash used in financing activities totaled $86.6 million in fiscal 2013 compared to $128.5 million in fiscal 2012 . The $41.9 million decrease was primarily due to a $108.3 million decrease in common stock repurchased, partially offset by a $40.5 million decrease in cash generated from stock option exercises. In addition, there was a $26.0 million increase in payment on our senior notes and revolving line of credit, net of proceeds from revolving line of credit. Repurchases of Common Stock From time to time, we repurchase our common stock in the open market. During fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 , we expended $214.9 million , $84.9 million and $184.3 million , respectively, in connection with our repurchase of common stock. In August 2012, our Board of Directors approved an open-ended stock repurchase program to acquire shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $150.0 million in the open market or through negotiated transactions. Following the completion of the August 2012 program, our Board of Directors approved another open-ended stock repurchase program in April 2014 to acquire shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $150.0 million in the open market or through negotiated transactions. Following the completion of the April 2014 program, our Board of Directors approved a new stock repurchase program in August 2014. The new program is open-ended and authorizes repurchases of shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. As of September 30, 2014 , we had $250.0 million remaining under this authorization. Dividends We paid quarterly dividends of two cents per share during each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 . Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. Revolving Line of Credit We have a $200 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on September 28, 2016. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of the Companys common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate and (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or (ii) LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The margin on LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.625% and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay utilization fees if borrowings and commitments under the credit facility exceed 50% of the total credit facility commitment, as well as facility fees. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.0 and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5, and also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of September 30, 2014 , we had $99.0 million in borrowings outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 1.285% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility. Senior Notes In May 2008, we issued $275 million of Senior Notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2008 Senior Notes). The 2008 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years. The remaining 2008 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 7.0% and the weighted average maturity is 9.0 years . In addition, in July 2010, we issued $245 million of Senior Notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2010 Senior Notes and, with the 2008 Senior Notes, the Senior Notes). The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years. The 2010 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 5.2% and the weighted average maturity is 8.0 years . The Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The purchase agreements for the Senior Notes also include covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of September 30, 2014 we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these purchase agreements. 38 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table presents a summary of our contractual obligations at September 30, 2014 : Year Ended September 30, Thereafter Total 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (In thousands) Senior Notes (1) $ 71,000 $ 60,000 $ 72,000 $ 131,000 $ 28,000 $ 85,000 $ 447,000 Interest due on debt obligations (2) 26,873 22,136 19,303 15,675 6,269 4,752 95,008 Operating lease obligations 21,666 18,544 15,158 13,427 11,702 11,097 91,594 Unrecognized tax benefits (3) 4,554 Total commitments $ 119,539 $ 100,680 $ 106,461 $ 160,102 $ 45,971 $ 100,849 $ 638,156 (1) Represents the unpaid principal amount of the Senior Notes. (2) Represents interest payments on the Senior Notes. (3) Represents unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions. As we are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of the payments or the amount by which the liability will increase or decrease over time, the related balances have not been reflected in the section of the table showing payment by fiscal year. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Software Licenses Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue. We use the residual method to recognize revenue when a software arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date provided the following criteria are met: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value does not exist for one or more of the delivered items but exists for all undelivered elements, (ii) all other applicable 39 Table of Contents revenue recognition criteria are met and (iii) the fair value of all of the undelivered elements is less than the arrangement fee. VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period. Transactional-based Revenues Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and internet delivery services are recognized as these services are performed. Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, network service and internally-hosted software agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts. Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients. In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Consulting Services We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license element because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of our software. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Hosting Services We are an application service provider (ASP), where we provide hosting services that allow customers access to software that resides on our servers. The ASP model typically includes an up-front fee and a monthly commitment from the customer that commences upon completion of the implementation through the remainder of the customer life. The up-front fee is the initial setup fee, or the implementation fee. The monthly commitment includes, but is not limited to, a fixed monthly fee or a transactional fee based on system usage that exceeds monthly minimums. Revenue is recognized from ASP transactions when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the service has been provided to the customer, the amount of fees is fixed or determinable and the collection of the Companys fees is probable. We do not view the activities of signing the contract or 40 Table of Contents providing initial setup services as discrete earnings events. Revenue is typically deferred until the date the customer commences use of our services, at which point the up-front fees are recognized ratably over the expected life of the customer relationship. ASP transactional fees are recorded monthly as earned. Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements including Non-Software When we enter into a multiple-deliverable arrangement that includes non-software, each deliverable is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: (i) the delivered item or items have value to the customer on a standalone basis and (ii) for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if we sell this item separately or if the item is sold by another vendor or could be resold by the customer; for example, we conclude professional services offered along with our SaaS subscription services typically have standalone value using this criteria. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to delivered products. Revenue for multiple element arrangements is allocated to the software and non-software deliverables based on a relative selling price. We use VSOE in our allocation of arrangement consideration when it is available. We define VSOE as a median price of recent standalone transactions that are priced within a narrow range, as defined by us. If a product or service is seldom sold separately, it is unlikely that we can determine VSOE. In circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then assess whether we can obtain third-party evidence (TPE) of the selling price. It may be difficult for us to obtain sufficient information on competitor pricing to substantiate TPE and therefore we may not always be able to use TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact if the product or service were sold by us on a standalone basis. Our determination of ESP involves weighting several factors based on the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement. The factors include, but are not limited to, geographies, market conditions, gross margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, customer segment pricing strategies and the product lifecycle. Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. Business Combinations Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial position. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed, and; (iii) the acquired companys brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in 41 Table of Contents the combined companys product portfolio. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowances or contingencys estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairment Assessment Our business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affects the amount of current and future period charges and amortization expense. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, in connection with our business combinations. We amortize our finite-lived intangible assets over the estimated useful lives. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed at least annually for impairment. The determination of the value of these components of a business combination, as well as associated asset useful lives, requires management to make various estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from product sales and services, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts, and acquired developed technologies and patents or trademarks; the acquired companys brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired products and services will continue to be used in our product portfolio; and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value and useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. Estimates using different assumptions, or unanticipated events and circumstances could produce significantly different results. We assess potential impairments of our intangible assets when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified with respect to our previously recorded intangible assets with finite useful lives, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of net intangible assets could occur. We periodically review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit levels, which we have determined are the same as our reportable segments, at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The timing and frequency of our goodwill impairment test is based on an ongoing assessment of events and circumstances that would be an indicator of potential impairment of a reporting unit, with the fair value below its carrying value. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a weighted combination of discounted cash flow valuation model (known as the income approach) and a comparison of our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies (known as the market approach). These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, costs of capital and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We evaluate historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors when estimating these amounts. Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value. The key assumptions that require significant management judgment for the income approach include revenue growth rates and weighted average cost of capital. In our analysis, revenue growth rates were primarily based on third-party studies of industry growth rates for each of our reporting units. Within each reporting unit, management refined these estimates based on their knowledge of the product, the needs of our customers and expected market opportunity. The weighted average cost of capital was determined based on publicly available data such as the long-term yield on U.S. treasury bonds, the expected rate of return on high quality bonds and the returns and betas of various equity instruments. As it relates to the market approach, there 42 Table of Contents is less management judgment in determining the fair value of our reporting units other than selecting which guideline publicly-traded companies are included in our peer group. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. In step one of that test we compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded its respective carrying value in fiscal 2014 , indicating the underlying goodwill of each reporting unit was not impaired as of our most recent testing date. Accordingly, we were not required to complete the second step of the goodwill impairment test and recorded no goodwill impairment charges for the twelve months ended September 30, 2014 . As discussed above, estimates of fair value for all of our reporting units can be affected by a variety of external and internal factors. We believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management. The timing and recognition of impairment losses by us in the future, if any, may be highly dependent upon our estimates and assumptions. Share-Based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and recognize it as expense, net of estimated forfeitures, over the vesting or service period, as applicable, of the stock award (generally three to four years). See Note 14 for further discussion of our share-based employee benefit plans. Income Taxes We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision. We estimate our current tax liability using currently enacted tax rates and laws and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our balance sheet using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate; an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable; and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under Business Combinations above. Contingencies and Litigation We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, shareholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. 43 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Issued or Adopted In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists (ASU 2013-11). ASU 2013-11 provides guidance for presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit. ASU 2013-11 provides that a benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except as follows. To the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. ASU 2013-11 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2013, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2014. We do not believe that adoption of ASU 2013-11 will have a significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. ASU 2014-09 will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles when it becomes effective and permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. The guidance also requires additional disclosure about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from customer contracts. Early adoption is not permitted. ASU 2014-09 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2016, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2017. We have not yet selected a transition method and we are currently evaluating the impact that the updated standard will have on our consolidated financial statements.