Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Annual Recurring Revenue, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Offerings We sell our software primarily as analytic and decisioning software or pre-configured solutions. Our software offerings are sold both individually and as integrated bundles of multiple products. Analytic and Decisioning Software FICO analytic and decisioning software offerings use proprietary and open source microservices and capabilities to enable both business users and data scientists to develop and execute advanced analytics and decision modeling. Our key products in this category include: FICO Decision Modeler and FICO Blaze Advisor are our core decision rules modeling tools, which enable users to flexibly author and manage decision rules and strategies. FICO Decision Modeler delivers the functionality of our industry leading FICO Blaze Advisor product, with the added benefit of seamless integration into FICO Platform. FICO Blaze Advisor, the predecessor to FICO Decision Modeler, is available as an off-platform product. FICO Xpress Optimization provides operations research professionals and business analysts with world-class solvers and productivity tools to determine optimal outcomes for a wide range of industry problems. FICO Xpress Optimization includes a powerful modeling and programming language to quickly model and solve even the largest optimization problems. FICO Xpress Optimization runs on FICO Platform. FICO Analytics Workbench is a predictive analytics tool that allows businesses to create and deploy explainable machine learning models for use in decisions that typically require strict governance and compliance, often including regulatory oversight. FICO Analytics Workbench runs on FICO Platform. FICO Data Orchestrator is a data retrieval and mapping solution that can access, gather, and transform data from corporate or public facing information services. FICO Data Orchestrator runs on FICO Platform. FICO DMP Streaming is a real-time and batch data ingestion solution that uniquely delivers in-stream analytics for real-time data insights and complex event processing. FICO Business Outcome Simulator enables business users to run a wide variety of insightful scenarios to assess how their business is likely to perform under varying conditions and assumptions. It unlocks insights into how key outcomes will likely shift in the face of changing competitor strategy, macroeconomic changes, evolving customer preferences, and more. FICO Business Outcome Simulator runs on FICO Platform. 6 Table of Contents FICO Decision Optimizer helps business users understand how different customers will react to a variety of different actions that are being considered. Once that link is understood, FICO Decision Optimizer identifies the combination of actions most likely to lead to the desired portfolio outcomes through decisions such as who to offer a new product, what limit and/or price to offer, or how to treat delinquent customers. FICO Decision Optimizer runs on FICO Platform. Pre-Configured Solutions FICO's pre-configured solutions optimize customer interactions in real-time, driving greater customer engagement and improving business results. They enable acquisition and growth marketing, account activation and management, omni-channel communication, risk assessment, and fraud detection and prevention. Key FICO solutions currently offered include: FICO Fraud Solutions empower organizations to safeguard the business and their customers from payments fraud and application fraud. Leveraging advanced analytic capabilities on a large scale and in real-time, FICO Fraud Solutions identify fraud and enable strategies designed to prevent fraud across payment cards, money transfers, and instances where stolen or synthetic identities are exploited to open accounts. Our models are continually improved using a proprietary, global data set of transaction data contributed by more than 10,000 institutions that participate in the FICO Falcon Intelligence Network. Certain Fraud Solutions capabilities are available on FICO Platform today, and we plan to make additional Fraud Solutions capabilities available on FICO Platform in the future. FICO Originations Solution is an application-to-decision credit originations solution. It enables banks, credit unions, finance companies, online lenders, auto lenders, and other companies to automate and improve the processing of requests for credit. Our Originations Solution increases the speed, consistency and efficiency with which requests are handled, reducing losses, and increasing approval rates through the application of sophisticated policies and analytics that assess applicant risk and reduce the need for manual review by underwriters. Originations capabilities are available on FICO Platform. FICO Customer Communication Service is an intelligent omnichannel digital communication manager for resolving customer interactions. It enables businesses to automate individualized customer dialogues with the same consistency and regulatory compliance as their human agents. With Customer Communication Service, businesses can be available 24/7 for one-way or two-way communication through any channel their consumers choose. Businesses can rapidly launch mobile alerts, messaging, virtual agents, self-service options, and other auto-resolution capabilities. It helps make the full customer journey more efficient and raises the level of data-driven digital intelligence behind lifecycle communications. Customer Communication capabilities are available on FICO Platform. FICO Strategy Director and FICO TRIAD Customer Manager enable businesses to automate and improve risk-based decisions for their existing credit customers. These products help businesses apply advanced analytics in credit account and customer decisions to increase portfolio revenue and reduce risk exposure and losses, while improving customer retention. They also allow users to manage risk and communications at both the account and customer level from a single place. FICO Strategy Director runs on FICO Platform. FICO TRIAD Customer Manager, the predecessor to FICO Strategy Director, is available as an off-platform product. FICO Professional Services FICO offers a range of professional services designed to help customers install and configure our software, develop and deploy advanced analytics using our software, and improve customer satisfaction and retention. FICO Implementation Services. We often sell software implementation and configuration services in conjunction with our on-premises and SaaS subscriptions, and our license sales. The FICO implementation services team leverages their deep expertise in our products and their extensive industry-specific knowledge to help our customers implement and configure FICO software rapidly and effectively. FICO Analytic Services. We build custom analytics, decision models and related analytics, and perform machine learning projects for clients in multiple industries. These analytic services help to improve critical business processes and operationalize analytics using FICO software products. Most of our engagements utilize predictive analytics, decision modeling and optimization to provide greater insight into customer preferences and help predict future customer behavior. Our professional services are sold on an hourly time and materials basis or for a fixed project fee. 7 Table of Contents MARKETS AND CUSTOMERS Our scores and software products and services serve clients in multiple industries, including banking, insurance, retail, healthcare and public agencies. End users of our products include three-quarters of each of the largest 100 financial institutions in the U.S. and the largest 100 banks in the world. Our clients also include more than 600 insurers, including eight of the top ten U.S. property and casualty insurers; more than 300 retailers and general merchandisers; and more than 200 government or public agencies. Seven of the top ten companies on the 2025 Fortune 500 list use one or more of our solutions. In addition, our consumer solutions are marketed to more than 200 million U.S. consumers whose credit relationships are reported to the three major U.S. consumer reporting agencies. The majority of our scores are marketed and sold through consumer reporting agencies. During fiscal 2025, 2024 and 2023, revenues generated from our agreements with Experian, TransUnion and Equifax collectively accounted for 51%, 45% and 41% of our total revenues, respectively. We also sell our scores and credit monitoring directly to consumers through our myFICO.com on-line subscription offerings. Outside of the U.S., we sell our scores through consumer reporting agencies, other third-party distributors, and in some cases directly to large end-users. We market our software products and services primarily through our own direct sales organization that is organized around vertical and geographic markets. Sales teams are based in our headquarters and in field offices strategically located around the world. We also market our products through indirect channels, including alliance partners and other resellers. As more capabilities are made available on FICO Platform, we expect our sales through indirect channels to grow. We are investing significant resources to develop our indirect channel relationships. Our largest market segment is financial services, representing 92% of our total revenue during fiscal 2025. Our largest geographic market is the Americas, representing 87% of our total revenue during fiscal 2025. COMPETITION The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and is constantly changing. Our competitors vary both in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer. We encounter competition from several sources, including: in-house analytic and systems developers; developers and providers of neural networks, machine learning, and AI systems; fraud solutions providers; scoring model builders; providers of credit reports and credit scores, including consumer reporting agencies; software companies supplying predictive analytic modeling, rules, or analytic development tools; entity resolution and social network analysis solutions providers; providers of customer engagement and risk management solutions; providers of account workflow management software; business process management and decision rules management providers; enterprise resource planning and customer relationship management solutions providers; business intelligence solutions providers; providers of automated application processing services; and third-party professional services and consulting organizations. We believe we offer customers a unique mix of products, expertise and capabilities that allows us to compete effectively in our target markets. However, many of our competitors are larger than FICO, have more development, sales and marketing resources than FICO, and some have larger shares of our target geographic or product markets. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting our markets include technical performance; access to unique proprietary analytical models and data; product attributes like adaptability, scalability, interoperability, functionality, and ease-of-use; on-premises and SaaS product availability; product price; customer service and support; the effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; existing market penetration; and reputation. Although we believe our products and services compete favorably with respect to these factors, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position against current and future competitors. 8 Table of Contents Scores In our Scores segment, we compete with both outside suppliers and in-house analytics. Primary competitors among outside suppliers of scoring models are the three major consumer reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada, which are also our partners in offering our scoring solutions, and VantageScore (a joint venture entity established by the three major U.S. consumer reporting agencies), which is selling a credit scoring product competitive with our products. Additional competitors include consumer reporting agencies outside the U.S. like CRIF Ratings, which operates in the European Union, and other data providers like LexisNexis and ChoicePoint, some of which also are our partners. For our offerings that deliver credit scores, credit reports and consumer credit education solutions directly to consumers, we compete with other direct to consumer credit and identity services such as Credit Karma, Credit Sesame, Experian and TransUnion, some of which are also our partners. Software The competition in our Software segment varies by application. In the fraud solutions market for banking, we compete primarily with Nice Actimize, Experian, Pegasystems, BAE Systems Applied Intelligence, SAS, ACI Worldwide, IBM, Feedzai and Featurespace. In the customer origination market, we compete with Experian, Equifax, Moodys, Meridian Link, and CGI, among others. In the customer management market, we compete with Experian and SAS, among others. In the marketing services market, we compete with Pegasystems, Equifax, Experian, SAS, Adobe and Salesforce, among others. In the decision platform market, we compete with Pegasystems, IBM and SAS, among others. PRODUCT PROTECTION AND TRADEMARKS We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements and procedures to protect our proprietary rights. We retain the title to and protect the suite of models and software used to develop scoring models as a trade secret. We also restrict access to our source code and limit access to and distribution of our software, documentation, and other proprietary information. We have generally relied upon the laws protecting trade secrets and upon contractual nondisclosure safeguards and restrictions on transferability to protect our software and proprietary interests in our product and service methodology and know-how. Our confidentiality procedures include invention assignment and proprietary information agreements with our employees and independent contractors, and nondisclosure agreements with our distributors, strategic partners, and customers. We also claim copyright protection for certain proprietary software and documentation. We have patents on many of our technologies and have patent applications pending on other technologies. The patents we hold may not be upheld as valid and may not prevent the development of competitive products. In addition, patents may never be issued on our pending patent applications or on any future applications that we may submit. As of September 30, 2025, we held 204 U.S. and 26 foreign patents, with 79 applications pending. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for competitors or users to copy or reproduce aspects of our software or to obtain information that we regard as trade secrets. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Patents and other protections for our intellectual property are important, but we believe our success and growth will depend principally on such factors as the knowledge, ability, experience and creative skills of our personnel, new products, frequent product enhancements and name recognition. We have developed technologies for research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or their subcontractors. Although we have acquired commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies that we develop under these contracts. In some cases, the U.S. government can terminate our rights to these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. In addition, under U.S. government contracts, the government may make the results of our research public, which could limit our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on funded research. We have used, registered and/or applied to register certain trademarks and service marks for our technologies, products and services. As of September 30, 2025, we had 23 trademarks registered in the U.S. and select foreign countries. 9 Table of Contents GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION We are subject to a number of U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. Laws and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of government supervision or enforcement and future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Laws and governmental regulations also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services. Laws and regulations that may affect our business and our current and prospective customers activities include, but are not limited to, those summarized below. Many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions have passed, or are currently contemplating, a variety of consumer protection, data privacy, and cyber and data security laws and regulations that may relate to our business or the business of our customers or affect the demand for our products and services. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) in the United Kingdom (U.K.) and the European Union (E.U.) imposes, among other things, strict obligations and restrictions on the collection and use of U.K. and E.U. personal data, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches in certain circumstances, a requirement for implementation of certain approved safeguards (such as the use of approved standard contractual clauses and the performance of appropriate data transfer impact assessments) for transfers of personal data to other countries that have not been determined by the E.U. or the U.K. to provide adequate data privacy protections, and possible substantial fines for any violations. Our implementation of processes to meet such requirements for affected data flows, which may involve interpretive issues, and may have an adverse impact on cross-border transfers of personal data, may subject us or our customers to additional scrutiny from E.U. and U.K. regulators or may increase our costs of compliance associated with maintaining appropriate certifications, performing any necessary assessments, engaging in contract negotiations with third parties and implementing approved standard contractual clauses, and/or (if appropriate) localizing certain data processing activities. Numerous other countries have introduced and, in some cases, enacted, similar data privacy and cyber and data security laws. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) gives California residents certain privacy rights in the collection and disclosure of their personal information and requires businesses to make certain disclosures and take certain other acts in furtherance of those rights. Additionally, effective January 1, 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA) revised and significantly expanded the scope of the CCPA. The CPRA also created a new agency, the California Privacy Protection Agency, authorized to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. Numerous other U.S. states have passed similar privacy laws, and other states are considering such legislation. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ("GLBA") regulates, among other things, the receipt, use, disclosure, and security of non-public personal information of consumers held by financial institutions and applies indirectly to companies that provide services to financial institutions. As a provider of services to financial institutions, portions of our business are subject to obligations to comply with certain GLBA provisions, including limitations on the use or disclosure of the underlying data and rules relating to the technological, physical and administrative safeguarding of non-public personal information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (HIPAA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH), and their respective implementing regulations impose specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAAs security standards directly applicable to business associates. We function as a business associate for certain of our customers that are HIPAA-covered entities and service providers and, in that context, we are regulated as a business associate for the purposes of HIPAA. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) prohibits unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP) with respect to the offering of consumer financial products and services and provides the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the CFPB) with authority to enforce those provisions as well as certain enumerated federal consumer financial laws. In certain circumstances, the CFPB also has examination and supervision powers with respect to service providers who provide a material service to a covered financial institution offering consumer financial products and services. Further, the CFPB has authority to issue rules designating non-depository larger participants in certain markets for consumer financial services and products for purposes of the CFPBs supervisory authority under the Dodd-Frank Act, which the CFPB has done for several markets including the consumer reporting market. Such designated larger participants are subject to reporting and on-site compliance examinations by the CFPB, which may result in increased compliance costs and potentially greater enforcement risks based on these supervisory activities. In addition, the laws and regulations issued by U.S. and foreign regulators of some of our largest financial institution customers may require them to flow down certain contractual obligations, exercise greater oversight, and perform more rigorous audits of their key service providers such as us. 10 Table of Contents The Federal Trade Commission Act (the FTC Act) prohibits unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices. Under the FTC Act, the FTCs jurisdiction includes the ability to bring enforcement actions based on the security measures we employ to safeguard the personal data of consumers. Allegations that we failed to safeguard or handle such data in a reasonable manner may subject us to regulatory scrutiny or enforcement action. The U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act (the FCRA) applies to consumer reporting agencies, as well as data furnishers, and users of consumer reports such as banks and other companies, many of which are our customers. The FCRA provisions govern the accuracy, fairness and privacy of information in the files of consumer reporting agencies that engage in the practice of assembling or evaluating information relating to consumers for certain specified purposes. The FCRA limits the type of information that may be reported by consumer reporting agencies, limits the distribution and use of consumer reports, establishes consumer rights to access and dispute their own credit files, includes provisions designed to prevent identity theft and assist fraud victims, requires consumer reporting agencies to make a free annual credit report available to consumers and imposes many other requirements on consumer reporting agencies, data furnishers and users of consumer report information. These requirements can affect the manner and extent to which our customers use our products and services. A number of states have enacted requirements similar to the FCRA. Some of these state laws impose additional, or more stringent, requirements than the FCRA, especially in connection with investigations and responses to reported inaccuracies in consumer reports. The FCRA preempts some of these state laws, but the scope of preemption continues to be defined by the courts. Various consumer credit laws and regulations in the foreign countries where we conduct business also affect the products and services we offer to our customers. The Credit Repair Organizations Act (the CROA) regulates companies that claim to be able to assist consumers in improving their credit standing. There have been efforts to apply the CROA to credit monitoring services offered by consumer reporting agencies and others, which may impact certain of our products and services. Special requirements may apply to us when providing services directly or indirectly to U.S. federal, state and local government agencies. The applicable requirements depend upon the monetary value of the awarded contract, the particular government agency awarding or funding the contract, the scope of services to be delivered, and the level of access that the agency will need to provide to us to enable us to perform the contract. For example, we may need to abide by the Privacy Act of 1974, the Internal Revenue Services Publication 4812, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation and associated supplemental contract clauses. Each of these laws, regulations and contract clauses imposes certain requirements, including measures for the protection of personal information or information that is otherwise categorized as sensitive by the government. Government agencies frequently modify or supplement these requirements, and consequences for violations of applicable requirements may include penalties, civil liability and for severe infractions, criminal liability. There has been an increased focus on laws and regulations related to our business and the business of our customers relating to policy concerns regarding the operation of consumer reporting agencies, the use and accuracy of credit and alternative data, the costs of consumer reports and credit scores, the use of credit scores and fair lending, and the use, transparency, and fairness of algorithms, AI, and machine learning in business processes. The European Commission has finalized the EU AI Act, which establishes requirements for the provision and use of products that leverage AI systems, including in credit scoring. The EU AI Act entered into force on August 1, 2024 and its provisions take effect between six and 36 months after that date, with most of those provisions becoming effective in 2026. Other countries, as well as the executive branch of the U.S. government and a number of U.S. states, are considering or have implemented laws, regulations, or standards applicable to AI technologies. Additional laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that may affect our business and our current and prospective customers activities include, but are not limited to, those in the following significant regulatory areas: Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models (e.g., state mortgage trigger or inquiries laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit-based insurance scores, and the E.U. Consumer Credit Directive). Fair lending laws (e.g., the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, and the Fair Housing Act) and laws and regulations that may impose requirements relating to algorithmic fairness or accountability. Laws and regulations related to data and cybersecurity, such as the Cybersecurity Act of 2015; the U.S. Department of Commerces National Institute of Standards and Technologys Cybersecurity Framework; the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act; cyber incident notice requirements for banks and their service providers under rules and regulations issued by federal banking regulators; cybersecurity incident disclosure requirements for public companies under regulations issued by the SEC; and identity theft, file freezing, and similar state privacy laws. Laws and regulations related to extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as nongovernmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards. 11 Table of Contents Laws and regulations applicable to secondary market participants (e.g., The Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac)) that could have an impact on our scoring products and revenues, including 12 CFR Part 1254 (Validation and Approval of Credit Score Models) issued by the Federal Housing Finance Agency in accordance with Section 310 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 115-174), and any regulations, standards or criteria established pursuant to such laws or regulations, including the ongoing validation and approval of the use of the FICO Score by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the Federal Housing Finance Agency. Laws and regulations applicable to our customer communication clients and their use of our products and services (e.g., the Telemarketing Sales Rule, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the CAN-SPAM Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws and similar laws in other countries). Laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services. The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including implementing regulations (e.g., the Consumer Financial Protection Act, the Truth In Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and Regulation F, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, and the Military Lending Act, and similar state consumer protection laws). Laws and regulations governing the use of the Internet and social media, telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials. Anti-money laundering laws and regulations (e.g., the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act). Laws and regulations restricting transactions with sanctioned parties and regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries or to foreign nationals (e.g., Office of Foreign Asset Control sanctions and Export Administration Regulations). Financial regulatory standards (e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification). Laws and regulations that apply to outsourcing of services by our clients, and that set forth requirements for managing third parties (e.g., vendors, contractors, suppliers and distributors). Laws and regulations relating to the environmental, social and governance, or sustainability, practices of companies, including enhanced climate-related disclosure requirements from regulators, such as Californias climate disclosure rules and the E.U.s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. We are also subject to federal and state laws that are generally applicable to any U.S. business with national or international operations, such as antitrust and unfair competition laws, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, state unfair or deceptive practices acts and various employment laws. HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Our People As of September 30, 2025, we employed 3,811 persons across 28 countries. Of these, our largest representation included 1,335 (35%) based in the U.S., 1,506 (40%) based in India and 271 (7%) based in the U.K. Other than to the extent mandated by applicable law in certain foreign jurisdictions, none of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and no work stoppages were experienced during fiscal 2025. Our Board of Directors (our Board) and executive leadership team believe that our people are vital to our success. The Leadership Development and Compensation Committee (the LDCC) of our Board oversees all human capital management policies, programs, and strategies, including but not limited to those regarding talent recruitment, development, retention, succession planning, health and safety, organizational culture, employee engagement, diversity, and compensation and benefit programs.The LDCC also periodically reviews and reports to the Board with respect to succession planning for our Chief Executive Officer and other senior management positions. In addition, our Chief Human Resources Officer reports to our Board periodically on people-focused programs. 12 Table of Contents Employee Engagement For the past decade, we have conducted quarterly workforce surveys to measure employee engagement and gain feedback and insights from our people about ways to improve the employee experience and the effectiveness of our business operations. Detailed findings from these surveys are promptly communicated to all employees, individual managers, the executive team and our Board and the findings are leveraged to drive positive organizational change. We involve designated human resources business partners and learning consultants who work with senior leaders to explore findings, identify high value actions and amplify messaging to help our people understand how survey participation can connect to positive change. Examples of organizational changes that have been driven by the insights from these surveys include investments in expanded workforce capacity, broadened and more frequent company-wide communications, increased employee stock ownership by significantly expanding the recipients of equity-based awards and encouraging all employees to take advantage of our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, expanded benefit programs including paid parental leave, well-being, family building, childcare reimbursement and company-funded transportation programs, enhanced incentive plan funding, and expanded investments in professional development targeting leadership and technical skills, as well as initiatives to promote a culture where all employees feel welcome at work. Our engagement scores have steadily strengthened and we have enjoyed strong workforce retention over the past year. Each of 22 engagement driver scores from our most recent surveys are at or above our external benchmark scores. Organizational Culture FICO is committed to building and reinforcing a culture where all employees feel welcome and where individual perspectives are valued. FICO believes that a highly talented workforce that includes people with a wide range of backgrounds, experiences and perspectives drives innovation while helping us relate to our global customer base. Our goal is to achieve this innovation and connection to our customer base through a culture that attracts the broadest talent audience possible, while always striving to select the most qualified individuals. We also believe that promoting a culture where each individual is truly valued allows our people to reach their full potential. Our FICO Cares organization encourages our people to connect with and contribute to their community. We encourage employees to participate in volunteer activities by providing work schedule flexibility and paid Community Volunteer Leave. We also encourage and match employee cash donations and volunteer time to qualified charitable organizations through our Corporate Matching Gift Program. Across our global workforce, as of September 30, 2025, the percentage of males and females was 67% and 33%, respectively. Looking at our U.S. workforce, as of September 30, 2025, 46% were racially/ethnically diverse employees who are members of a protected class. Additional information on our talent programs is available on the Corporate Responsibility page of our website at www.fico.com/en/corporate-responsibility. Information contained on our website is not deemed part of or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Talent Recruitment We leverage organizational culture as a competitive advantage in our efforts to attract people from the broadest possible talent pool. We deploy selection practices designed to ensure strong alignment between candidate qualifications and knowledge and skills needed for success in each role, and we invest in hiring manager training focused on effective selection strategies. Further, in the U.S., we detail our targeted base pay ranges on all public job postings and prohibit our recruiters from inquiring about a candidates current level of compensation. Our focus on the professional development of our people drives the internal posting of virtually all job opportunities. And, consistent with our remarkably low undesired attrition rate, FICO has significantly strengthened its position as an employer of choice, resulting in attractive external candidate pools. Professional Development To support professional development, we offer a structured onboarding program with training specific to a variety of identified career paths to help new employees become rapidly engaged and productive. We have invested in building the FICO Integrated Learning Organization (ILO), which is led by our Chief Learning Officer. The ILO develops customized learning content for colleagues, clients and partners around the world. We deliver high quality, targeted new hire onboarding, technology and product skill training, compliance and management and leadership education through this FICO Learning platform. This allows our employees to obtain the knowledge and skills to effectively perform in their current roles, while also preparing them for new opportunities. We also offer financial support for degreed or certificated programs through a tuition reimbursement program. 13 Table of Contents We have defined specific career paths for all major functions in our organization so that our people understand how they can progress in their career by expanding their knowledge and skills. In doing so, our job titling system reflects both individual contributor (or technical) career tracks and people management career tracks to reinforce our philosophy that people can grow professionally in either track. To further consistent administration, we conduct annual company-wide performance reviews supported by the use of performance rubrics for each major function. These rubrics set forth clear behavioral expectations for each function through a set of objective descriptors organized across our three levels of performance (Improvement Needed, Achieved Expectations, and Outstanding). In addition to rubrics, outcome-based goals are established for each individual based upon his/her specific role and priorities. Evaluation across both behavioral and outcome-based dimensions yields an overall performance assessment. We define a promotion as an increase in pay band linked to the proven ability to be successful in the next level of responsibility. Our structured promotion process takes place twice annually with promotions to all job levels including senior job levels occurring with our year-end cycle (October/November) and promotions to lower and middle job levels taking place with our mid-year cycle (April/May). This process supports an integrated approach yielding improved consistency in promotion decisions, including that all groups are representatively recognized. Approximately 25% of our people are recognized via promotion each year. Succession Planning Our Board spends considerable time each year reviewing CEO and key leadership succession and development plans. These discussions include an annual dedicated review of CEO succession, as well as discussions at multiple meetings, including in executive session as needed, regarding broader key leader succession, organizational health and scenario planning in the event of unexpected leadership changes. The Board also has regular and direct exposure to senior leadership and high potential officers through formal and informal avenues throughout the year. Beyond the C-suite, we actively assess talent across the organization to optimize deployment of resources, encourage professional development, drive accountability, and identify and take actions to mitigate undesired attrition risk. At the mid-point of each fiscal year, talent assessments are performed by people managers for each team member. These assessments include a mid-year performance rating and a leadership strength rating, the combination of which yields a Talent Management Score ranging from one to nine with recommended follow-up actions associated with each score. In addition, managers identify any significant attrition risks and underlying drivers and develop related mitigation plans. Finally, for each senior leader role, managers identify potential successor candidates along with targeted development needs to encourage readiness. For vice president-level roles, the executive team plays a central role through a process we refer to as Session C. This process involves a detailed evaluation of each vice president incumbent using several tools including a personal biography written by the incumbent identifying key accomplishments, career growth aspirations, and champions that can articulate their contributions. In addition, managers complete a Leader Profile for each vice president incumbent highlighting key strengths, development progress over the past year, go-forward development plans, attrition risks and drivers, and succession insights. All of these materials are centrally reviewed and discussed by the executive team during a multi-day meeting. After discussing incumbent vice presidents, the executive team evaluates any proposed candidates for promotion to vice president using a combination of promotion recommendation forms prepared by the sponsoring manager, a 360-degree performance evaluation involving self-evaluation, manager evaluation, direct report evaluation, and insights gathered from key stakeholders. Candidates for vice president-level promotion are placed on-deck for a one- to three-year period for observation prior to any promotion decision being finalized. This approach drives high quality, consistent decisions while ensuring our highest potential candidates are properly developed and ready when promoted. Compensation and Benefit Programs We regularly participate in market-based compensation surveys, seek the advice of outside experts, and leverage new hire, peer equity, and unplanned attrition trend data to ensure that our base pay and incentive structures are competitive. We create a strong sense of shared purpose by having our CEO and each member of our executive leadership team participate in the same annual cash incentive bonus design as all non-sales employees across our organization. Beyond our structured promotion cycles, all compensation actions are determined in November following the conclusion of the year-end performance review process in October. This includes promotion and market-based base pay adjustments, annual bonus awards, and long-term incentive awards. This rewards-planning cycle ensures strong linkage between performance and rewards, and it allows for centralized review and refinement of reward recommendations leading to high quality and representative decisions. 14 Table of Contents Over the course of the past decade, weve steadily and significantly expanded participation in our annual performance-based equity program from 7% to just over 33% of our workforce. In addition, we offer an Employee Stock Purchase Plan for eligible employees, which is designed to promote even broader equity participation. We offer competitive health and welfare benefit plans with significant company subsidies to offset premiums, retirement plans with a competitive company match to encourage participation and flexible paid-time-off programs including vacation, sick time and disability time. We have paid Maternity and Parental Leave benefits totaling up to 12 weeks, and we have adopted a Well-Being Program designed to provide broad-based physical and mental health education and personal health coaching, as well as quarterly cash Wellness Awards designed to help employees fund wellness-related purchases which they find most valuable. In addition, we have a global Family Building Benefit program, which provides infertility, cryopreservation, surrogacy and adoption support services. In India, we have a Childcare Reimbursement program to assist parents of young children. Promoting a Healthy and Safe Work Environment We are committed to providing a safe and healthy workplace. We continuously strive to meet or exceed compliance with all laws, regulations and accepted practices pertaining to workplace safety. All employees and contractors are required to comply with established safety policies, standards, and procedures. We foster a healthy work/life balance for our people including both remote and hybrid work location policies that provide significant flexibility surrounding work location and work schedules. 15 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Our executive officers as of September 30, 2025 were as follows: Name Positions Held Age William J. Lansing January 2012present, Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors of the Company. February 2009November 2010, Chief Executive Officer and President, Infospace, Inc. 20042007, Chief Executive Officer and President, ValueVision Media, Inc. 20012003, General Partner, General Atlantic LLC. 20002001, Chief Executive Officer, NBC Internet, Inc. 19982000, President/Chief Executive Officer, Fingerhut Companies, Inc. 19961998, Vice President, Corporate Business Development, General Electric Company. 1996, Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Prodigy, Inc. 19861995, various positions, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 67 Steven P. Weber May 2023present, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of the Company. January 2023May 2023, Vice President, Interim Chief Financial Officer of the Company. March 2021January 2023, Vice President, Treasurer, Tax and Investor Relations of the Company. November 2010March 2021, Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasurer of the Company. April 2003November 2010, various positions with the Company. September 2001April 2003, Senior Financial Analyst, Metris Companies. 19902001, various positions, Foodservice News. 62 Nikhil Behl March 2025present, President, Software of the Company. July 2024March 2025, Executive Vice President, Software of the Company. August 2023July 2024, Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer of the Company. April 2014August 2023, Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer of the Company. October 2013April 2014, Consultant to the Company. February 2012October 2013, Chief Executive Officer of Supplizer. August 2011January 2012, Chief Executive Officer of Zoostores.com. July 2010August 2011, Chief Executive Officer, Mercantila Business Unit of Infospace. 20072010, Chief Merchandising Officer of Mercantila. 1995June 2007, various positions, including VP Sales & Operations and VP Sales & Customer Service, Home & Home Office Store of Hewlett Packard. 51 Thomas A. Bowers August 2020present, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy of the Company. September 2019August 2020, Vice President, Business Consulting of the Company. April 2018September 2019, Founder and Managing Partner, M Cubed Development, LLC. August 2012March 2018, Executive Vice President, American Savings Bank. 19872012, Senior partner and various positions, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 70 Richard S. Deal November 2015present, Executive Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company. August 2007November 2015, Senior Vice President, Chief Human Resources Officer of the Company. January 2001August 2007, Vice President, Human Resources of the Company. 19982001, Vice President, Human Resources, Arcadia Financial, Ltd. 19931998, managed broad range of human resources corporate and line consulting functions with U.S. Bancorp. 58 Michael S. Leonard November 2011present, Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer of the Company. November 2007November 2011, Senior Director, Finance of the Company. July 2000November 2007, Director, Finance of the Company. 19982000, Controller of Natural Alternatives International, Inc. 19941998, various audit staff positions at KPMG LLP. 60 Mark R. Scadina February 2009present, Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company. June 2007February 2009, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary of the Company. 20032007, various senior positions including Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Liberate Technologies, Inc. 19992003, various leadership positions including Vice President and General Counsel, Intertrust Technologies Corporation. 19941999, Associate, Pennie and Edmonds LLP. 56 16 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Business, Market and Strategy Risks We may not be successful in executing the business strategy for our Software segment, which could cause our growth prospects and results of operations to suffer. We have increasingly focused our Software segments business strategy on investing significant development resources to enable substantially all of our software to run on FICO Platform, our modular software offering designed to enable advanced analytics and decisioning use cases. This business strategy is designed to enable us to increase our business by selling multiple connectable and extensible products to clients, and to allow our clients to more easily expand their usage and the use cases they enable over time. The market may be unreceptive to our general business approach, including being unreceptive to our cloud-based offerings and unreceptive to purchasing multiple products from us. As we continue to pursue this business strategy, we may experience volatility in our Software segments revenues and operating results caused by various factors, including the differences in revenue recognition treatment and timing between our cloud-based offerings and on-premises software licenses, the timing of investments and other expenditures necessary to develop and operate our cloud-based offerings, and the adoption of new sales, delivery and distribution methods. If this business strategy is not successful, we may not be able to grow our Software segments business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or revenues and profits may decline. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of products and services, and if the market does not continue to accept these products and services, our revenues will decline. We expect that revenues derived from our scoring solutions, fraud solutions, customer communication services, customer management solutions and decision management software will continue to account for a substantial portion of our total revenues for the foreseeable future. Our revenues will decline if the market does not continue to accept these products and services. Factors that might affect the market acceptance of these products and services include the following: changes in the business analytics industry; changes in technology, including increased use of artificial intelligence (AI); our inability to obtain or use key data for our products; saturation or contraction of market demand; loss of key customers; industry consolidation; failure to successfully adopt cloud-based technologies; our inability to obtain regulatory approvals for our products and services, including credit score models; the increasing availability of free or relatively inexpensive consumer credit, credit score and other information from public or commercial sources, including those that use AI technologies; failure to execute our selling approach; and inability to successfully sell our products in new vertical markets. Our ability to increase our revenues depends to some extent upon introducing new products and services, upon introducing enhancements and improvements to existing products and services and upon entering new markets for products and services. If we are unable to successfully develop, or if the marketplace does not accept, new, enhanced or improved products and services, or if we experience defects, failures or delays associated with the introduction of new, enhanced or improved products or services, our business could suffer serious harm. 17 Table of Contents Our revenue growth and the success of our business strategy depend upon our ability to enhance and improve existing products and services, and to continue to introduce new products and services that keep pace with technological developments, satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer requirements and achieve market acceptance. If we are unable to develop new, enhanced or improved products and services, including those that utilize AI technologies, or if we are not successful in introducing such products and services, we may not be able to grow our business or growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, significant undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of products may affect market acceptance of our products and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. In the past, we have experienced delays while developing and introducing new products and product enhancements, primarily due to difficulties developing models, acquiring data, and adapting to particular software operating environments and certain client or other systems. We have also experienced errors or bugs in our software products, despite testing prior to release of the products. These errors could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Errors or defects in our products that are significant, or are perceived to be significant, could result in rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenues, diversion of development resources, an increase in product liability claims, and increases in service and support costs and warranty claims. Our use of AI in the development of our products and our incorporation of AI features into some of our products could introduce errors, defects, or delays impacting our ability to successfully develop new products. We also believe that much of the future growth of our business and the success of our business strategy may depend on our ability to continue to expand into newer markets for our products and services. Such areas are relatively new to our product development and sales and marketing personnel. Products and services that we plan to market in the future are in various stages of development. If these newer markets are not willing to adopt our products and services, either as a result of the quality of these products and services or due to other factors, such as economic conditions, our revenues may decrease. We rely on relatively few customers, as well as our contracts with the three major consumer reporting agencies, for a significant portion of our revenues and profits. Many of our customers are significantly larger than we are and may have greater bargaining power. The businesses of our largest customers depend, in large part, on favorable macroeconomic conditions. If these customers are negatively impacted by weak global economic conditions, global economic volatility or the terms of these relationships otherwise change, our revenues and operating results could decline. Most of our customers are relatively large enterprises, such as banks, credit card issuers, insurers, retailers, telecommunications providers, automotive lenders, consumer reporting agencies, public agencies, and organizations in other industries. As a result, many of our customers and potential customers are significantly larger than we are and may have sufficient bargaining power to demand reduced prices and favorable nonstandard terms. In addition, the U.S. and other key international economies periodically experience downturns in which economic activity is impacted by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, increased volatility of interest rates, fluctuating rates of inflation, restricted credit, poor liquidity, reduced corporate profitability, volatility in credit, trade policies and tariffs, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy. The potential for economic disruption presents considerable risks to our business, including potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions with which we have substantial relationships. Economic disruption could result in a decline in the sales of new products to our customers and the volume of transactions that we execute for existing customers. In addition, the volume of our Scores sales depends heavily on macroeconomic conditions, including, for example, the volume of transactions in the U.S. mortgage and credit card markets, which account for a significant portion of the revenues in our Scores segment. We also derive a substantial portion of our Scores segment revenues and operating income from our contracts with the three major consumer reporting agencies in the U.S., Experian, TransUnion and Equifax, and other parties that distribute our products to certain markets. The loss of or a significant change in a relationship with one of the three consumer reporting agencies with respect to their distribution of our products or with respect to our myFICO offerings, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a major customer, the loss of or a significant change in a relationship with a significant third-party distributor (including payment card processors), or the loss of or delay of significant revenues from these sources, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our revenues depend, to a great extent, upon conditions in the banking (including consumer credit) industry. If our clients industry experiences uncertainty, it will likely harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. During fiscal 2025, 92% of our revenues were derived from sales of products and services to the banking industry. Periods of global economic uncertainty experienced in the past have produced substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets, resulting in the bankruptcy or acquisition of, or government assistance to, several major domestic and international financial institutions. The potential for future stress and disruptions, including in connection with geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, trade policies and tariffs, the level of inflation and the volatility of interest rates, presents considerable risks to our businesses and operations. These risks include potential bankruptcies or credit deterioration of financial institutions, many of which are our customers. Such disruption would result in a decline in the revenue we receive from financial and other institutions. In addition, if consumer demand for financial services and products and the number of credit applications decrease, the demand for our products and services could also be materially reduced. These types of disruptions could lead to a decline in the volumes of products and services we provide our customers and could negatively impact our revenue and results of operations. While the rate of account growth in the U.S. banking industry has been slow, we have generated most of our revenue growth in the banking industry by selling and cross-selling our products and services to large banks and other credit issuers. If the banking industry experiences contraction in the number of participating institutions, we may have fewer opportunities for revenue growth due to reduced or changing demand for our products and services that support customer acquisition programs of our customers. In addition, industry contraction could affect the base of recurring revenues derived from contracts in which we are paid on a per-transaction basis as formerly separate customers combine their operations under one contract. There can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent future revenue contraction or effectively promote future revenue growth in our businesses. While we expand our sales into international markets, the risks are greater as some of these markets have experienced and may in the future experience substantial disruption and we are less well-known in them. If use of the FICO Score by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were to cease or decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and stock price. A significant portion of our revenues in our Scores segment is attributable to the U.S. mortgage market, which includes, for mortgages eligible for purchase by The Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), a requirement by those enterprises that U.S. lenders provide FICO Scores for each mortgage delivered to them. However, their continued use of the FICO Score is subject to ongoing validation and approval by those enterprises and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). If other credit score models are approved for use with mortgages delivered to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or the FICO Score is not approved for continued use with those mortgages, it could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and stock price. Other changes implemented by FHFA, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac could also affect the demand for FICO Scores and thus could have similar adverse effects on our business, including, for example, the change announced by the FHFA Director in July 2025 permitting mortgage originators to choose the credit score they submit with mortgages delivered to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or a potential future change permitting mortgage originators to underwrite loans using credit scores from fewer than three national consumer reporting agencies. The ability of our FICO Score to compete effectively in the U.S. mortgage market may be constrained by the pricing and other business practices of the consumer reporting agencies, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and stock price. We are subject to significant competition in the markets in which we operate, and our products and pricing strategies, and those of our competitors, could decrease our product sales and market share. Demand for our products and services may be sensitive to product and pricing changes we implement, and our product and pricing strategies may not be accepted by the market. If our customers fail to accept our product and pricing strategies, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive and is constantly changing, and we expect competition to persist and intensify. Our regional and global competitors vary in size and in the scope of the products and services they offer, and include: in-house analytic and systems developers; developers and providers of neural networks, machine learning, and AI systems; fraud solutions providers; scoring model builders; providers of credit reports and credit scores, including consumer reporting agencies; software companies supplying predictive analytic modeling, rules, or analytic development tools; 19 Table of Contents entity resolution and social network analysis solutions providers; providers of customer engagement and risk management solutions; providers of account workflow management software; business process management and decision rules management providers; enterprise resource planning and customer relationship management solutions providers; business intelligence solutions providers; providers of automated application processing services; and third-party professional services and consulting organizations. We expect to experience additional competition from other established and emerging companies. This could include customers of ours that develop their own scoring models or other products, and as a result no longer purchase or reduce their purchases from us. We also expect to experience competition from other technologies. For example, certain of our fraud solutions products compete against other methods of preventing payment card fraud, such as cardholder verification and authentication solutions; mobile device payments and associated biometric measures on devices including fingerprint and face matching; and other card authorization and user verification techniques. Many of our existing and anticipated competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, professional services and other resources than we do, and industry consolidation is creating even larger competitors in many of our markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources than we can to develop, promote and sell their products. Many of these companies have extensive customer relationships, including relationships with many of our current and potential customers. For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have formed a joint venture that is selling a credit scoring product competitive with our products. Furthermore, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly gain significant market share. If we are unable to respond as quickly or effectively to changes in customer requirements as our competition, our ability to expand our business and sell our products will be negatively affected. Our competitors may be able to sell existing or new products competitive to ours at lower prices individually or as part of integrated suites of several related products. This ability may cause our customers to purchase products that directly compete with our products from our competitors, which could decrease our product sales and market share. Price reductions by our competitors could pressure us to reduce our product prices in a manner that negatively impacts our margins and could also harm our ability to obtain new long-term contracts and renewals of existing long-term contracts on favorable terms. We rely on relationships with third parties for marketing, distribution and certain services. If we experience difficulties in these relationships, including competition from these third parties, our future revenues may be adversely affected. Many of our products are sold by distributors or partners, and we intend to continue to market and distribute our products through these existing distributor and partner relationships, as well as invest resources to develop additional sales, distribution and marketing relationships. For example, our Scores segment relies on, among others, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax. Failure of our existing and future distributors or partners to generate significant revenues or otherwise perform their expected services or functions, demands by such distributors or partners to change the terms on which they offer our products, or our failure to establish additional distribution or sales and marketing alliances, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, certain of our distributors and partners presently compete with us and may compete with us in the future, either by developing competitive products themselves or by distributing competitive offerings. For example, Experian, TransUnion and Equifax have developed a credit scoring product to compete directly with our products and are actively selling that product. Competition from distributors or other sales and marketing partners could significantly harm sales of our products and services. We will continue to rely upon proprietary technology rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our business could be harmed. 20 Table of Contents Our success depends, in part, upon our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secret, and trademark laws, and nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution, to protect our proprietary technology. This protection of our proprietary technology is limited, and our proprietary technology could be used by others without our consent. In addition, patents may not be issued with respect to our pending or future patent applications, and our patents may not be upheld as valid or may not prevent the development of competitive products. Any disclosure, loss, invalidity of, or failure to protect our intellectual property could negatively impact our competitive position, and ultimately, our business. The extent to which our intellectual property rights can be protected differs by jurisdiction, and is rapidly evolving with respect to AI technologies. There can be no assurance that our protection of our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or abroad will be adequate or that others, including our competitors, will not use our proprietary technology without our consent. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Some of our technologies were developed under research projects conducted under agreements with various U.S. government agencies or subcontractors. Although we have commercial rights to these technologies, the U.S. government typically retains ownership of intellectual property rights and licenses in the technologies developed by us under these contracts, and in some cases can terminate our rights in these technologies if we fail to commercialize them on a timely basis. Under these contracts with the U.S. government, the results of research may be made public by the government, limiting our competitive advantage with respect to future products based on our research. If we fail to keep up with rapidly changing technologies, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. In our markets, technology changes rapidly, and there are continuous improvements in computer hardware, network operating systems, programming tools, programming languages, operating systems, database technologies, cloud-based technologies and the use of the Internet. For example, AI technologies, including generative AI, and their use are currently undergoing rapid change. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new products in response to changes in technology or industry standards, or if we fail to bring product enhancements or new product developments to market quickly enough, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to: innovate by internally developing new and competitive technologies; use leading third-party technologies effectively; continue to develop our technical expertise; anticipate and effectively respond to changing customer needs; initiate new product introductions in a way that minimizes the impact of customers delaying purchases of existing products in anticipation of new product releases; and influence and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes, including relating to AI. Our reengineering efforts may cause our growth prospects and profitability to suffer. As part of our management approach, we pursue ongoing reengineering efforts designed to grow revenues through strategic resource allocation and improve profitability through cost reductions. Our reengineering efforts may not be successful over the long term should we fail to reduce expenses or increase revenues to anticipated levels or at all. If our reengineering efforts are not successful over the long term, our revenues, results of operations and business may suffer. If we are unable to access new markets or develop new sales and distribution channels, our business and growth prospects could suffer. We expect our future growth to depend, in part, on the sale of products and service solutions in industries and markets we do not currently serve. We also expect to grow our business by delivering our solutions through additional sales and distribution channels. If we fail to penetrate these industries and markets to the degree we anticipate, or if we fail to develop additional sales and distribution channels, we may not be able to grow our business, growth may occur more slowly than we anticipate, or our revenues and profits may decline. 21 Table of Contents Our acquisition activities may disrupt our ongoing business and may involve increased expenses, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals contemplated at the time of a transaction. We have acquired, and may in the future acquire, companies, businesses, products, services and technologies. Acquisitions involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our managements attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate acquired operations, systems or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for our investments, or otherwise not realize the expected return, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; we may be unable to retain the key employees, customers and other business partners of the acquired operation; we may have difficulties entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by known or unknown contingent liabilities, other liabilities or claims we assume in an acquisition or that are imposed on us as a result of an acquisition, including claims by government agencies or authorities, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; we could incur material charges in connection with the impairment of goodwill or other assets that we acquire; a company that we acquire may have experienced a security incident that it has yet to discover, investigate and remediate, may have other cybersecurity vulnerabilities, or may have unsophisticated security measures, any of which we might not identify in a timely manner and which could spread more broadly to other parts of our company during the integration effort; we may incur material charges as a result of acquisition costs or costs incurred in combining and/or operating the acquired business that are greater than anticipated; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew their contracts, if we are unable to incorporate the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines in a uniform manner, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company or changes in accounting treatment do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; and to the extent we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. Because acquisitions are inherently risky, our transactions may not be successful and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Acquisitions of businesses having a significant presence outside the U.S. will increase our exposure to the risks of conducting operations in international markets. There can be no assurance that strategic divestitures will provide business benefits. As part of our strategy, we continuously evaluate our portfolio of businesses. As a result of these reviews, we have made decisions to divest certain products and lines of business, and we may do so again in the future. These divestitures involve risks, including: disruption of our operations or businesses; reductions of our revenues or earnings per share; difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; failure to effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to a purchaser; divestiture terms that contain potential future purchase price adjustments or require that assets or liabilities be divested, managed or run off separately; diversion of management's attention from our other businesses; the potential loss of key personnel; adverse effects on relationships with our customers, suppliers or their businesses; the erosion of employee morale or customer confidence; and 22 Table of Contents the retention of contingent liabilities and the possibility that we will become subject to third-party claims related to the divested business. If we do not successfully manage the risks associated with divestitures, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected as the potential strategic benefits may not be realized or may take longer to realize than expected. Our revenues, results of operations and overall financial performance may be negatively impacted by health epidemics or other disease outbreaks. Our customers, and therefore our business and revenues, are sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions and lending activities. Health epidemics or disease outbreaks could impact the rate of spending on our solutions and could adversely affect our customers ability or willingness to purchase our products and services, cause prospective customers to change product selections or term commitments, delay or cancel their purchasing decisions, extend sales cycles, and potentially increase payment defaults, all of which could adversely affect our future revenues, results of operations and overall financial performance. Operational Risks If our cybersecurity measures are compromised or unauthorized access to customer or consumer data is otherwise obtained, our products and services may be perceived as not being secure, customers may curtail or cease their use of our products and services, our reputation may be damaged and we could incur significant liabilities. Because our business requires the storage, transmission and utilization of sensitive consumer and customer information, we will continue to routinely be the target of attempted cybersecurity and other security threats by technically sophisticated and well-resourced outside third parties, among others, attempting to access or steal the data we store. Many of our products are provided by us through the Internet. We are exposed to additional cybersecurity threats as we continue to migrate our software solutions and data from our legacy systems to cloud-based solutions. We operate in an environment of significant risk of cybersecurity incidents resulting from unintentional events or deliberate attacks by third parties or insiders, which may involve exploiting security vulnerabilities or sophisticated attack methods. These threats include social engineering attacks, phishing attacks and other cyber-attacks, including state-sponsored cyber-attacks, industrial espionage, insider threats, denial-of-service attacks, computer viruses, ransomware and other malware, payment fraud or other cyber incidents. As a software and technology vendor, we may incorporate or distribute software or other materials from third parties. Attacks or other threats to our supply chain for such software and materials may render us unable to provide assurances of the origin of such software and materials, and could put us at risk of distributing software or other materials that may cause harm to ourselves, our customers or other third parties. In addition, increased attention on and use of AI increases the risk of cyber-attacks and data breaches, which can occur more quickly and evolve more rapidly when AI is used. Further, use of AI by our employees, whether authorized or unauthorized, increases the risk that our intellectual property and other proprietary information will be unintentionally disclosed. Cybersecurity breaches, including those that impact our third-party vendors and other security providers, could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of consumer or customer information, significant litigation, regulatory fines, penalties, loss of customers or reputational damage, indemnity obligations and other liability. There is no assurance that the programs, technologies and processes that we have put in place in an effort to maintain the security and protection of our non-public information and that of our customers will be fully implemented, complied with or effective. If our cybersecurity measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our systems or to consumer or customer information, sensitive data may be accessed, stolen, disclosed or lost, our reputation may be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, or even for some time after, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques, implement adequate preventative measures or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis. Because a successful breach of our computer systems, software, networks or other technology asset could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected, we may not be able to immediately address the consequences of a cybersecurity incident. 23 Table of Contents Malicious third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers, distributors and vendors access to our systems and services, and may demand payment by us in order to restore access. Cybersecurity breaches experienced by our vendors, by our distributors, by our customers, by companies that we acquire, or by us may trigger governmental notice requirements and public disclosures, which may lead to widespread negative publicity, statutory damages, and lawsuits filed by individuals impacted by cybersecurity breaches under privacy and cybersecurity statutes that create rights of action. We may also be affected by cybersecurity breaches experienced by customers who use our products on-premises, and those breaches may occur due to factors not under our control, including a customers failure to timely install updates and fixes to our products, vulnerabilities in a customers own cybersecurity measures, and other factors. Any cybersecurity breach, whether actual or perceived, could harm our reputation, erode customer confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures, negatively impact our ability to attract new customers, cause existing customers to curtail or cease their use of our products and services, cause regulatory or industry changes that impact our products and services, or subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or liability, all of which could materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. If we experience business interruptions or failure of our information technology and communication systems, the availability of our products and services could be interrupted which could adversely affect our reputation, business and financial condition. Our ability to provide reliable products and services to our customers depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our and our external service providers data centers, information technology and communication systems. Any disruption of or interference with our use of data centers, information technology or communication systems of our external service providers would adversely affect our operations and our business. As we continue to grow our Software segments business, our dependency on the continuing operation and availability of these systems increases. Our systems and data centers, and those of our external service providers, could be exposed to damage or interruption. These interruptions can include software or hardware malfunctions, communication failures, outages or other failures of third-party environments or service providers, or be due to defective updates, fires, floods, earthquakes, pandemics, war, terrorist acts or civil unrest, power losses, equipment failures, supply chain disruptions, computer viruses, denial-of-service or other cybersecurity attacks, employee or insider malfeasance, human error and other events beyond our control. Any steps that we or our external service providers have taken to prevent or reduce disruption may not be sufficient to prevent an interruption of services and disaster recovery planning may not account for all eventualities. An operational failure or outage in any of these systems, or damage to or destruction of these systems, which causes disruptions in our services, could result in loss of customers, damage to customer relationships, reduced revenues and profits, refunds of customer charges and damage to our brand and reputation and may require us to incur substantial additional expense to repair or replace damaged equipment and recover data loss caused by the interruption. Any one or more of the foregoing occurrences could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The failure to obtain certain forms of data from our customers or others for our use in product development could harm our business. Our business requires that we develop or obtain a reliable source of sufficient amounts of current and statistically relevant data to analyze transactions and update some of our products. In most cases, this data must be periodically updated and refreshed to enable our products to continue to work effectively in a changing environment. We do not own or control much of the data that we require, most of which is collected privately and maintained in proprietary databases. Customers and key business partners provide us with the data we require to analyze transactions, report results and build new models. Our business strategy depends in part upon our ability to access new forms of data to develop custom and proprietary analytic tools. If we fail to maintain sufficient data sourcing relationships with our customers and business partners, or if they decline to provide such data due to privacy, security, competitive concerns, regulatory concerns, or prohibitions or a lack of permission from their customers or partners, we could lose access to required data and our products. If this were to happen, our development of new products might become less effective. We could also become subject to increased legislative, regulatory or judicial restrictions or mandates on the collection, disclosure, transfer or use of such data, in particular if such data is not collected by our providers in a way that allows us to legally use the data. Third parties have asserted copyright and other intellectual property interests in this data, and these assertions, if successful, could prevent us from using this data. We may not be successful in maintaining our relationships with these external data source providers or in continuing to obtain data from them on acceptable terms or at all. Any interruption of our supply of data could seriously harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The failure to recruit and retain qualified personnel could hinder our ability to successfully manage our business. 24 Table of Contents Our business strategy and our future success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain experienced sales, consulting, research and development, marketing, technical support and management personnel. The labor market for these individuals, particularly in the complex disciplines of enterprise platform sales, software engineering, data science, AI and cybersecurity, is very competitive due to the limited number of people available with the necessary skills and understanding to build, sell and support our complex products and it may become more competitive with general market growth. We cannot be certain that our compensation strategies will be perceived as competitive by current or prospective employees. This and other competitive factors could impair our ability to recruit and retain personnel. We have experienced past difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, especially in these intensely competitive and technical skill areas, and we may experience future difficulty in recruiting and retaining such personnel, at a time when we may need additional staff to support expanded research and development efforts, new customers and/or increased customer needs. We may also recruit skilled technical professionals from other countries to work in the U.S., and from the U.S. and other countries to work abroad. Limitations imposed by current and changing immigration laws in the U.S. and abroad and the availability of visas in the countries where we do business could hinder our ability to attract and retain necessary qualified personnel and harm our business and future operating results. There is a risk that even if we invest significant resources in attempting to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we will not succeed in our efforts, and our business could be harmed. The failure of the value of our stock to appreciate may adversely affect our ability to use equity and equity-based incentive plans to attract and retain personnel, and may require us to use alternative forms of compensation for this purpose. Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Risks Increased regulatory focus on U.S. residential mortgage closing costs may affect our ability to implement price changes for FICO Scores used in mortgage originations and thus limit the revenues and profitability of the FICO Score. If new laws, regulations or other governmental action affecting the FICO Score or our other products, services and solutions are implemented or carried out, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. There has been increased regulatory focus in the U.S. related to the transparency and fairness of certain fees charged to consumers in connection with the closing of a residential mortgage loan, including fees for credit reports and credit scores. If new laws, regulations or other governmental action limit the fees that can be charged for credit scores by us, consumer reporting agencies, or end users of our FICO Scores, or that place other restrictions on the sale or distribution of credit scores, our ability in the future to increase pricing for FICO Scores used in mortgage originations may be impacted and thus the revenues and profitability of the FICO Score may be adversely affected and the growth of our Scores business may be constrained. There has also been increased focus more broadly on laws and regulations in the U.S. related to our business and the business of consumer reporting agencies, including by U.S. state and federal regulators, relating to policy concerns with regard to the operation of consumer reporting agencies, the sale and distribution of credit scores and credit reports, the use and accuracy of credit and alternative data, the use of credit scores and fair lending, and the use, transparency, and fairness of algorithms, AI, and machine learning in business processes. The costs and other burdens of compliance with such laws and regulations, and with new or revised laws and regulations that may be implemented addressing these topics, could negatively impact the use and adoption of our solutions, reduce overall demand for them, and harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that apply to us and/or to our customers may expose us to liability, cause us to incur significant expense, affect our ability to compete in certain markets, limit the profitability of or demand for our products, or render our products obsolete. If these laws and regulations require us to change our products and services, it could adversely affect our business and results of operations. New legislation or regulations, or changes to existing laws and regulations, may also negatively impact our business and increase our costs of doing business. Laws and governmental regulation affect how our business is conducted and, in some cases, subject us to the possibility of government supervision or enforcement and future lawsuits arising from our products and services. Laws and governmental regulations also influence our current and prospective customers activities, as well as their expectations and needs in relation to our products and services, and may require them to flow down certain contractual obligations, exercise greater oversight, and perform more rigorous audits of their key service providers such as us. Laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that may affect our business and/or our current and prospective customers activities include, but are not limited to, those in the following significant regulatory areas: Privacy and security laws and regulations that limit the use and disclosure, require security procedures, or otherwise apply to the collection, processing, storage, use and transfer of personal data of individuals (e.g., the U.S. Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, also known as the Gramm Leach Bliley Act; identity theft, file freezing, security breach notification and similar state privacy laws; and the data protection laws of other countries such as the General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) in the European Union (E.U.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.)); 25 Table of Contents Laws and regulations relating to the privacy, security and transmission of protected health information of individuals, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (HIPAA) and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (HITECH) and their respective implementing regulations; Financial regulatory reform stemming from the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 and the many regulations mandated by that Act, including regulations issued by, and the supervisory and investigative authority of, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) with respect to enumerated federal consumer financial laws and unfair, deceptive, or abusive acts or practices (UDAAP); The application or extension of consumer protection laws, including implementing regulations (e.g., the Consumer Financial Protection Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the Truth In Lending Act and Regulation Z, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and Regulation F, the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, the Military Lending Act, and the Credit Repair Organizations Act, and similar state consumer protection laws); Use of data by creditors and consumer reporting agencies (e.g., the U.S. Fair Credit Reporting Act and similar state laws); Special requirements that may apply when we provide products or services directly or indirectly to U.S. federal, state and local government agencies (e.g., the Privacy Act of 1974, the Internal Revenue Services Publication 4812, and the Federal Acquisition Regulation); Laws and regulations that limit the use of credit scoring models (e.g., state mortgage trigger or inquiries laws, state insurance restrictions on the use of credit-based insurance scores, and the E.U. Consumer Credit Directive); Fair lending laws (e.g., the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and Regulation B, and the Fair Housing Act) and laws and regulations that may impose requirements relating to algorithmic fairness or accountability; Data and cybersecurity laws and regulations, including: the Cybersecurity Act of 2015; the U.S. Department of Commerces National Institute of Standards and Technologys Cybersecurity Framework; the Clarifying Lawful Overseas Use of Data Act; cyber incident notice requirements for banks and their service providers under rules and regulations issued by federal banking regulators; cybersecurity incident disclosure requirements for public companies under regulations issued by the SEC; and identity theft, file freezing, and similar state privacy laws; Laws and regulations related to extension of credit to consumers through the Electronic Fund Transfers Act and Regulation E, as well as nongovernmental VISA and MasterCard electronic payment standards; Laws and regulations applicable to secondary market participants (e.g., Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac) that could have an impact on our scoring products and revenues, including 12 CFR Part 1254 (Validation and Approval of Credit Score Models) issued by the FHFA in accordance with Section 310 of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act (Public Law 115-174), and any regulations, standards or criteria established pursuant to such laws or regulations, including the ongoing validation and approval of the use of the FICO Score by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and the FHFA; Laws and regulations applicable to our customer communication clients and their use of our products and services (e.g., the Telemarketing Sales Rule, Telephone Consumer Protection Act, the CAN-SPAM Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, and regulations promulgated thereunder, and similar state laws and similar laws in other countries); Laws and regulations applicable to our insurance clients and their use of our insurance products and services; Laws and regulations governing the use of the Internet and social media, telemarketing, advertising, endorsements and testimonials; Antitrust and unfair competition laws; Anti-money laundering laws and regulations (e.g., the Bank Secrecy Act and the USA PATRIOT Act); Laws and regulations restricting transactions with sanctioned parties and regarding export controls as they apply to FICO products delivered in non-U.S. countries or to foreign nationals (e.g., Office of Foreign Asset Control sanctions and Export Administration Regulations); Anti-bribery and corruption laws and regulations (e.g., the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act 2010); Financial regulatory standards (e.g., Sarbanes-Oxley Act requirements to maintain and verify internal process controls, including controls for material event awareness and notification); Laws and regulations that apply to outsourcing of services by our clients, and that set forth requirements for managing third parties (e.g., vendors, contractors, suppliers and distributors); and 26 Table of Contents Laws and regulations relating to the environmental, social and sustainability practices of companies, including enhanced climate-related disclosure requirements from regulators, such as Californias climate disclosure rules and the E.U.s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. Many U.S. and foreign jurisdictions have passed, or are currently contemplating, a variety of consumer protection, data privacy, and cyber and data security laws and regulations that may relate to our business or the business of our customers or affect the demand for our products and services. For example, the GDPR in the E.U. and the U.K. imposes strict obligations and restrictions on the collection and use of E.U. and U.K. personal data, and also on the transfer of such data to countries that have not been determined by the E.U. or the U.K. to provide adequate data privacy protections, unless there are additional approved transfer safeguards in place (such as the use of standard contractual clauses and the performance of appropriate data transfer impact assessments). Our implementation of processes to meet such requirements for affected data flows may involve additional compliance costs associated with maintaining appropriate regulatory certifications, performing any necessary assessments, engaging in contract negotiations with third parties and implementing approved standard contractual clauses, and/or (if appropriate) localizing certain data processing activities. Furthermore, such data transfer restrictions, which may involve interpretive issues, may have an adverse impact on cross-border transfers of personal data and may subject us and our customers to additional scrutiny from E.U. or U.K. data protection authorities. Numerous other countries have introduced and, in some cases, enacted, similar data privacy and cyber and data security laws. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) gives California residents certain privacy rights in the collection and disclosure of their personal information and requires businesses to make certain disclosures and take certain other acts in furtherance of those rights. Additionally, effective January 1, 2023, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA) revised and significantly expanded the scope of the CCPA. The CPRA also created a new agency, the California Privacy Protection Agency, authorized to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. Numerous other U.S. states have passed similar privacy laws, and other states are considering such legislation. The European Commission has finalized the EU AI Act, which establishes requirements for the provision and use of products that leverage AI systems, including in credit scoring. The EU AI Act entered into force on August 1, 2024, and its provisions take effect between six and 36 months after that date, with most of those provisions becoming effective in 2026. Other countries, as well as the executive branch of the U.S. government and a number of U.S. states, are considering or have implemented laws, regulations or standards applicable to the provision and use of AI technologies. The costs and other burdens of compliance with such laws and regulations, along with the potential for increased regulatory actions, could negatively impact the use and adoption of our solutions and reduce overall demand for them. Additionally, concerns regarding data privacy and cyber and data security may cause our customers, or their customers and potential customers, to resist providing the data necessary to allow us to deliver our solutions effectively. Even the perception that the privacy or security of personal information is not satisfactorily protected or does not meet regulatory requirements could inhibit sales of our solutions and any failure to comply with such laws and regulations could lead to significant fines, penalties or other liabilities. Any such decrease in demand or incurred fines, penalties or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition to existing laws and regulations, changes in the U.S. or foreign legislative, judicial, regulatory or consumer environments could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. The laws and regulations above, and changes to them or their interpretation by the courts, could affect the demand for or profitability of our products, including scoring and consumer products. New laws and regulations pertaining to our customers could cause them to pursue new strategies, reducing the demand for our products. We expect there will continue to be an increased focus on laws and regulations related to our business and/or the business of our clients, including with regard to the operation of consumer reporting agencies, the collection, use, accuracy, correction and sharing of personal information, credit scoring, the use of AI and machine learning, and algorithmic accountability and fair lending. If we are subject to infringement claims, it could harm our business. Products in the industry segments in which we compete, including software products, are often subject to claims of patent and other intellectual property infringement, and such claims could increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grow. We may need to defend claims that our products infringe intellectual property rights, and as a result we may: incur significant defense costs or substantial damages; be required to cease the use or sale of infringing products; 27 Table of Contents expend significant resources to develop or license a substitute non-infringing technology; discontinue the use of some technology; or be required to obtain a license under the intellectual property rights of the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available or might require substantial royalties or license fees that would reduce our margins. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as patent trolls, have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement in order to extract settlements. From time to time, we may receive threatening letters or notices or may be the subject of claims that our solutions and underlying technology infringe or violate the intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management's attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Global Operational Risks In operations outside the U.S., we are subject to additional risks that may harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. A large portion of our revenues is derived from international sales. During fiscal 2025, 23% of our revenues were derived from business outside the U.S. As part of our growth strategy, we plan to continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S., including opportunities in countries with economic systems that are in early stages of development and that may not mature sufficiently to result in growth for our business. Accordingly, our future operating results could be negatively affected by a variety of factors arising out of international commerce, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include: general economic and political conditions in countries where we sell our products and services; difficulty in staffing and efficiently managing our operations in multiple geographic locations and in various countries; effects of a variety of foreign laws and regulations, including restrictions on access to personal information; data privacy and consumer protection laws and regulations; import and export licensing requirements; longer payment cycles; difficulties in enforcing contracts and collecting accounts receivable; reduced protection for intellectual property rights; currency fluctuations; unfavorable tax rules; changes in tariffs and other trade barriers; the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets; geopolitical tensions, instability, terrorism, and military conflicts; natural disasters and pandemics, including individual countries reactions to them; and difficulties and delays in translating products and related documentation into foreign languages. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully address each of these challenges. Additionally, some of our business is and will be conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Substantial movements in foreign exchange rates relative to the dollar could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operations and financial position. In addition to the risk of depending on international sales, we have risks incurred in having research and development personnel located in various international locations. We currently have a substantial portion of our product development staff in international locations, some of which have political and developmental risks. For example, approximately one-third of our workforce is located in India, which could be negatively impacted by heightened tensions between India and Pakistan. If any of such risks materialize, our business could be damaged. Material adverse developments in global economic conditions, or the occurrence of certain other world events, could affect demand for our products and services and harm our business. 28 Table of Contents Purchases of technology products and services and decisioning solutions are subject to adverse economic conditions. When an economy is struggling, companies in many industries delay or reduce technology purchases, and we experience softened demand for our decisioning solutions and other products and services. Global economic uncertainty has produced, and continues to produce, substantial stress, volatility, illiquidity and disruption of global credit and other financial markets. Various factors contribute to the uncertain economic environment, including geopolitical tensions, military conflicts, the level and volatility of interest rates, the level of inflation, an actual recession or fears of a recession, trade policies and tariffs, and political and governmental instability. Economic uncertainty has and could continue to negatively affect the businesses and purchasing decisions of companies in the industries we serve. Such disruptions present considerable risks to our businesses and operations. As global economic conditions experience stress and negative volatility, including any stress or negative volatility related to the imposition of, and threatened imposition of, tariffs and retaliatory tariffs, economic sanctions and increased trade tensions or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts, or terrorism, we will likely experience reductions in the number of available customers and in capital expenditures by our remaining customers, longer sales cycles, deferral or delay of purchase commitments for our products and increased price competition, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations and liquidity. As a result of these conditions, risks and uncertainties, we may need to modify our strategies, businesses or operations, and we may incur additional costs in order to compete in a changed business environment. Given the volatile nature of the global economic environment and the uncertainties underlying efforts to stabilize it, we may not timely anticipate or manage existing, new or additional risks, as well as contingencies or developments, which may include regulatory developments and trends in new products and services. Our failure to do so could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Financial Risks Our products have long and variable sales cycles. If we do not accurately predict these cycles, we may not forecast our financial results accurately, and our stock price could be adversely affected. In our Software segment, the length of our sales cycles makes it difficult for us to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. In addition, our selling approach is complex as we look to sell multiple products and services across our customers organizations. This makes forecasting of revenues in any given period more difficult. For example, the sales cycle of our products can extend to greater than a year and as a result, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from period to period.Customers are often cautious in making decisions to acquire our products because purchasing our products typically involves a significant commitment of capital and may involve shifts by the customer to a new software and/or hardware platform or changes in the customers operational procedures. This may cause customers, particularly those experiencing financial stress, to make purchasing decisions more cautiously. Delays in completing sales can arise while customers complete their internal procedures to approve large capital expenditures and test and accept our applications. Consequently, we face difficulty predicting the quarter in which sales to expected customers will occur and experience fluctuations in our revenues and operating results. In our Scores segment, a majority of our revenues come from the sale of our Scores through partners. We have limited visibility on those sales until we receive royalty reports from those partners at the end of each billing period. Furthermore, the volume of our Scores sales depends heavily on macroeconomic conditions that are hard to forecast, including, for example, the volume of transactions in the U.S. mortgage and credit card markets, which account for a significant portion of the revenues in our Scores segment. If we are unable to accurately forecast our revenues, our ability to plan, budget or provide accurate guidance could be limited, and our stock price could be adversely affected. Our financial results and key metrics fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter, making our future revenue, annual recurring revenue (ARR), and financial results difficult to predict,which may cause us to miss analyst expectations and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our quarterly financial results and key metrics have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future, and therefore period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. We also may provide investors with quarterly and annual financial forward-looking guidance that could prove to be inaccurate as a result of these fluctuations and other factors. In addition to the other risks described in these risk factors, some of the factors that could cause our financial results and key metrics to fluctuate include: variability in demand from our existing customers; 29 Table of Contents the lengthy and variable sales cycle of many products, combined with the relatively large size of orders for our products, increases the likelihood of short-term fluctuation in revenues; consumer or customer dissatisfaction with, or problems caused by, the performance of our products; the timing of new product announcements and introductions in comparison with our competitors; the level of our operating expenses; changes in demand and competitive and other conditions in the consumer credit, banking and insurance industries; the level and volatility of interest rates and the level of inflation; fluctuations in domestic and international economic conditions; our ability to complete large installations, and to adopt and configure cloud-based deployments, on schedule and within budget; announcements relating to litigation or regulatory matters; changes in senior management or key personnel; acquisition-related expenses and charges; and timing of orders for and deliveries of software systems. Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and many are fixed and cannot be quickly adjusted as revenue changes. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations has had, and in the future could have, an immediate and significant adverse effect on our operating results and profitability. Greater than anticipated expenses or a failure to maintain rigorous cost controls would also negatively affect profitability. General Risk Factors Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations, and will likely continue to be subject to fluctuations, or may decline, regardless of our operating performance. Our stock price has been subject to fluctuations due to a number of factors, including variations in our revenues and operating results. The financial markets have at various times experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the stock prices of many technology companies and financial services companies, and these fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market fluctuations, as well as industry-specific and general economic conditions, may negatively affect our business and require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations, stock price and business. If we experience changes in tax laws or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income tax returns, it could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the U.S. and in certain foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in tax laws, by our ability to generate taxable income in foreign jurisdictions in order to utilize foreign tax losses, and by the valuation of our deferred tax assets. In addition, we are subject to the examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from such examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from such examinations will not have an adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our anti-takeover defenses could make it difficult for another company to acquire control of FICO, thereby limiting the demand for our securities by certain types of purchasers or the price investors are willing to pay for our stock. Certain provisions of our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us difficult, even if such events would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions include giving our Board the ability to issue preferred stock and determine the rights and designations of the preferred stock at any time without stockholder approval. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third-party to acquire, or discouraging a third-party from acquiring, a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These factors and certain provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may have the effect of deterring hostile takeovers or otherwise delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium over the fair market value of our common stock. 30 Table of Contents Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy We recognize the importance of assessing, identifying, and managing material risks associated with cybersecurity threats, as such term is defined in Item 106(a) of Regulation S-K. These risks include, among other things: operational risks, intellectual property theft, fraud, extortion, harm to employees or customers and violation of data privacy or security laws. Identifying and assessing cybersecurity risk is integrated into our overall risk management systems and processes. Cybersecurity risks related to our business, technical operations, privacy and compliance issues are identified and managed through a multi-faceted approach including third-party assessments, internal IT Audit, IT security, governance, risk and compliance reviews. To defend, detect and respond to cybersecurity incidents, we, among other things: conduct proactive privacy and cybersecurity reviews of systems and applications, audit applicable data policies, perform penetration testing using external third-party tools and techniques to test security controls, conduct employee training, monitor emerging laws and regulations related to data protection and information security (including our consumer products) and implement appropriate changes. We employ an experienced team of cybersecurity professionals with a variety of backgrounds. We seek to address material cybersecurity risks through a company-wide approach that assesses, ranks and prioritizes cybersecurity threats, vulnerabilities and issues as they are identified to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our information systems and the information that we collect and store. The Companys cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices are informed by recognized frameworks established by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, the International Organization for Standardization and an array of other applicable standards-setting bodies, which are integrated into a broader risk management framework and related processes. We also hold various security-related industry certifications and attestations that have been validated by external auditors, including: SOC 1, SOC 2 Type II, ISO 27001, CSA STAR Level 2, PCI-DSS and others. Leveraging threat intelligence and other signals, the Company undergoes periodic testing, audits and reviews of its policies, standards, processes and practices to identify, assess and address cybersecurity risks and events. The Company also undergoes routine internal and external penetration testing. The results of such tests and assessments are evaluated by management and periodically reported to the Audit Committee. The Company further adjusts its cybersecurity policies, standards, processes and practices based on these results. The Company also makes available to clients attestations of its various certifications, audits, and penetration tests. We have not identified any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. However, we face ongoing and increasing cybersecurity risks, including from bad actors that are becoming more sophisticated and effective over time, as well as a result of potential defects or disruptions in our or our customers services. Additional information on the cybersecurity risks that could materially affect us is discussed in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. Management Oversight and Governance The Companys Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), who reports to the President, Software, is responsible for the design and implementation of our security program and strategy based on the mandate provided by the Board and senior management.The CISO has extensive experience in the management of cybersecurity risk management programs, having served in various leadership roles in information technology and information security for over 20 years, including serving as the Chief Security Officer of two other large public technology companies. We believe the Companys business leaders have the appropriate expertise, background and depth of experience to manage risks arising from cybersecurity threats. 31 Table of Contents The CISO, in coordination with other members of senior management, works collaboratively across the Company to implement a program designed to protect the Companys information systems from cybersecurity threats and to promptly respond to cybersecurity incidents in accordance with the Companys incident response and recovery plans. To facilitate the success of the Companys cybersecurity program, cross-functional teams throughout the Company are tasked with addressing cybersecurity threats and responding to cybersecurity incidents. Through ongoing communications with these teams, the CISO and senior management are informed promptly about, and monitor the prevention, detection, investigation, mitigation and remediation of, cybersecurity threats. These teams are expected to operate pursuant to documented plans and playbooks that include processes for escalation of incidents to leadership and to the Audit Committee and the Board, as appropriate, based on the severity level of an incident. In addition, the Company periodically consults with outside advisors and experts to assist with assessing, identifying and managing cybersecurity risks, including to anticipate future threats and trends, and their impact on the Companys risk management environment. Specifically, management implements the Companys cybersecurity and risk management strategy across several areas: Identification and Reporting. The Company has implemented a robust, cross-functional approach to identifying, assessing and managing cybersecurity threats and risks. The Companys program includes