Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services, research and development, and the sufficiency of capital resources; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements, including those related to economic conditions; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators, including the proportion of revenues generated from international as opposed to domestic customers; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by FICO in fiscal 2014. OVERVIEW We provide products and services that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions across the enterprise, an approach we commonly refer to as decision management. Our predictive analytics, which includes the industry-standard FICO Score, and our decision management systems power hundreds of billions of customer decisions each year. We help thousands of companies in over 90 countries use our decision management technology to target and acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses, and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do insurers, retailers, healthcare organizations and public agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO Scores, the standard measure in the United States of consumer credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. Most of our solutions address customer engagement, including customer acquisition, customer servicing and management, and customer protection. We also help businesses improve noncustomer decisions such as transaction and claims processing. Our solutions enable users to make decisions that are more precise, consistent and agile, and that systematically advance business goals. This helps our clients to reduce the cost of doing business, increase revenues and profitability, reduce losses from risks and fraud, and increase customer loyalty. Our revenues derived from clients outside the United States have generally grown, and may in the future grow more rapidly than our revenues from domestic clients. International revenues totaled $76.4 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013, an increase of 2% from $75.3 million from the quarter ended December 31, 2012, representing 41% and 40% of total consolidated revenues in each of these quarters. A significant portion of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) industry, and 75% and 72% of our revenues were derived from within this industry during the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. In addition, we derive a significant share of revenue from transactional or unit-based software license fees, transactional fees derived under scoring, network service or internal hosted software arrangements, annual software maintenance fees and annual license fees under long-term software license arrangements. Arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing accounted for approximately 70% and 68% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 15 Table of Contents We continue to invest in our franchise technologies, including in the areas of cloud computing and software as a service (SaaS). The expansion of cloud-based solutions will enable us to deliver solutions more efficiently to our customers and expand our market opportunities further into markets outside the banking industry sector. We also continue to enhance shareholder value by returning cash to shareholders through our stock repurchase program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, we repurchased approximately 0.4 million shares for a total value of $25.0 million. Bookings Management uses bookings as an indicator of our business performance. Bookings represent contracts signed in the current reporting period that will generate current and future revenue streams. We consider contract terms, knowledge of the marketplace and experience with our customers, among other factors, when determining the estimated value of contract bookings. Bookings calculations have varying degrees of certainty depending on the revenue type and individual contract terms. Our revenue types are transactional and maintenance, professional services and license. Our estimate of bookings is as of the end of the period in which a contract is signed, and we do not update our initial booking estimates in future periods for changes between estimated and actual results. Actual revenue and the timing thereof could differ materially from our initial estimates. The following paragraphs discuss the key assumptions used to calculate bookings and the susceptibility of these assumptions to variability. Transactional and Maintenance Bookings We calculate transactional bookings as the total estimated volume of transactions or number of accounts under contract, multiplied by a contractual rate. Transactional contracts generally span multiple years and require us to make estimates about future transaction volumes or number of active accounts. We develop estimates from discussions with our customers and examinations of historical data from similar products and customer arrangements. Differences between estimated bookings and actual results occur due to variability in the volume of transactions or number of active accounts estimated. This variability is primarily caused by the following: The health of the economy and economic trends in our customers industries; Individual performance of our customers relative to their competitors; and Regulatory and other factors that affect the business environment in which our customers operate. We calculate maintenance bookings directly from the terms stated in the contract. Professional Services Bookings We calculate professional services bookings as the estimated number of hours to complete a project multiplied by the rate per hour. We estimate the number of hours based on our understanding of the project scope, conversations with customer personnel and our experience in estimating professional services projects. Estimated bookings may differ from actual results primarily due to differences in the actual number of hours incurred. These differences typically result from customer decisions to alter the mix of FICO and internal services resources used to complete a project. License Bookings Licenses are sold on a perpetual or term basis and bookings generally equal the fixed amount stated in the contract. Bookings Trend Analysis Number of Bookings Weighted- Bookings over $1 Average Bookings Yield* Million Term (In millions) (Months) Quarter Ended December 31, 2013 $ 84.2 24 % 16 23 Quarter Ended December 31, 2012 $ 82.0 33 % 10 28 * Bookings yield represents the percentage of revenue recognized from bookings for the periods indicated. 16 Table of Contents Transactional and maintenance bookings were 29% and 33% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Professional services bookings were 55% and 34% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. License bookings were 16% and 33% of total bookings for the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The weighted-average term of bookings achieved measures the average term over which the bookings are expected to be recognized as revenue. As the weighted-average term increases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter decreases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a longer period of time. As the weighted-average term decreases, the average amount of revenues expected to be realized in a quarter increases; however, the revenues are expected to be recognized over a shorter period of time. Management regards the volume of bookings achieved, among other factors, as an important indicator of future revenues, but they are not comparable to, nor substituted for, an analysis of our revenues, and they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties concerning timing and contingencies affecting product delivery and performance. Although many of our contracts contain non-cancelable terms, most of our bookings are transactional or service related and are dependent upon estimates such as volume of transactions, number of active accounts, or number of hours incurred. Since these estimates cannot be considered fixed or firm, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize bookings as backlog. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the fiscal periods indicated: Period-to-Period Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Percentange Segment 2013 2012 2013 2012 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 111,916 $ 124,707 61 % 66 % $ (12,791 ) (10 )% Scores 47,180 43,447 25 % 23 % 3,733 9 % Tools 25,247 21,866 14 % 11 % 3,381 15 % Total revenue $ 184,343 $ 190,020 100 % 100 % (5,677 ) (3 )% 17 Table of Contents Quarter Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to Quarter Ended December 31, 2012 Applications Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Percentage 2013 2012 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 77,779 $ 79,625 $ (1,846 ) (2 )% Professional services 26,787 26,159 628 2 % License 7,350 18,923 (11,573 ) (61 )% Total $ 111,916 $ 124,707 (12,791 ) (10 )% Applications segment revenues decreased $12.8 million primarily due to a $7.7 million decrease in our marketing solutions, $5.0 million decrease in our fraud solutions and a $2.7 million decrease in our customer management solutions, partially offset by a $3.0 million increase in our mobility solutions. The decrease in marketing solutions revenues was primarily attributable to the early termination of a large customer in December 2012. The decrease in fraud solutions revenues was primarily attributable to a decrease in software and transactional revenues, partially offset by an increase in service revenues. The decrease in customer management solutions was primarily attributable to a decrease in software revenues. The increase in mobility solutions revenues was primarily attributable to an increase in transactional revenues. Scores Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Percenage 2013 2012 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 43,318 $ 42,437 $ 881 2 % Professional services 589 903 (314 ) (35 )% License 3,273 107 3,166 2,959 % Total $ 47,180 $ 43,447 3,733 9 % Scores segment revenues increased $3.7 million due to an increase of $1.7 million in our business-to-business Scores revenue and an increase of $2.0 million in our myFICO business-to-consumer services revenue. The increase in our business-to-business Scores was primarily attributable to increased software revenue related to our Global FICO Score, partially offset by a decrease in PreScore revenue. The increase in business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to stronger direct sales generated from the myFICO.com website partially offset by a decline in royalties derived from scores sold indirectly to consumers through credit reporting agencies. During the quarters ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian collectively accounted for approximately 16% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers that are recorded in our other segments. 18 Table of Contents Tools Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to- Percentage 2013 2012 Period Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 8,558 $ 7,836 $ 722 9 % Professional services 6,910 5,275 1,635 31 % License 9,779 8,755 1,024 12 % Total $ 25,247 $ 21,866 3,381 15 % Tools segment revenues increased $3.4 million primarily attributable to an increase in sales of FICO Decision Optimizer in our Optimization tools. Operating Expenses and Other Expense The following table sets forth certain summary information related to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income for the fiscal periods indicated: Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to- Percentage 2013 2012 2013 2012 Period Change Change (In thousands, except (In thousands, employees) except employees) Revenues $ 184,343 $ 190,020 100 % 100 % $ (5,677 ) (3 )% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 57,319 56,148 31 % 29 % 1,171 2 % Research and development 18,092 14,552 10 % 8 % 3,540 24 % Selling, general and administrative 66,989 69,665 36 % 37 % (2,676 ) (4 )% Amortization of intangible assets 3,013 3,372 2 % 2 % (359 ) (11 )% Restructuring and acquisition-related 3,660 3,289 2 % 2 % 371 11 % Total operating expenses 149,073 147,026 81 % 78 % 2,047 1 % Operating income 35,270 42,994 19 % 22 % (7,724 ) (18 )% Interest income 6 21 % % (15 ) (71 )% Interest expense (7,132 ) (7,880 ) (3 )% (4 )% 748 (9 )% Other expense, net (961 ) (92 ) (1 )% % (869 ) 945 % Income before income taxes 27,183 35,043 15 % 18 % (7,860 ) (22 )% Provision for income taxes 10,206 11,622 6 % 6 % (1,416 ) (12 )% Net income $ 16,977 $ 23,421 9 % 12 % (6,444 ) (28 )% Number of employees at quarter end 2,425 2,404 21 1 % Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; costs of computer service bureaus; internal network hosting costs; amounts payable to credit reporting agencies for scores; software costs; and expenses related to our business-to-consumer services. 19 Table of Contents Cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues increased to 31% for the quarter ended December 31, 2013 from 29% for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $1.2 million increase was primarily due to a $0.8 million increase in travel costs, driven by increased services revenue requiring travel to client locations. Over the next several quarters, we expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Research and Development Research and development expenses include personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including research of mathematical and statistical models and development of new versions of Applications and Tools products. Research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 10% for the quarter ended December 31, 2013 from 8% for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $3.5 million increase was mainly due to a $3.2 million increase in personnel and labor costs, attributable to our continued investment in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. Over the next several quarters, we expect that research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries, commissions and benefits; travel costs; overhead costs; advertising and other promotional expenses; corporate facilities expenses; legal expenses; business development expenses and the cost of operating computer systems. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues decreased to 36% for the quarter ended December 31, 2013 from 37% for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $2.7 million decrease was primarily attributable to a $3.6 million decrease in labor and personnel costs, partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in marketing expenses. The decrease in labor and personnel costs was primarily due to FICO shifting resources to research and development efforts in the areas of cloud computing and SaaS. The increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to increased efforts to market our cloud initiative. Over the next several quarters, we expect that selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with or slightly higher than those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the acquisition method of accounting. Our finite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging from four to fifteen years. The quarter over quarter decrease of $0.4 million in amortization expense was attributable to certain intangible assets associated with our Dash and London Bridge acquisitions becoming fully amortized in January 2013 and May 2013, respectively, partially offset by the addition of intangible assets associated with our acquisitions of CR Software and Infoglide in fiscal 2013. Over the next several quarters we expect that amortization expense will be consistent with the amortization expense we recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Restructuring and Acquisition-related During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, we incurred $3.7 million in severance charges due to the elimination of 83 positions throughout the company. Cash payments for all the severance costs will be paid by the end of the second quarter of our fiscal 2014. There were no acquisition-related charges during the period. 20 Table of Contents During the quarter ended December 31, 2012, we incurred net charges totaling $2.5 million consisting of severance costs and costs for vacating excess leased space. Cash payments for all the severance costs were paid during fiscal 2013. Cash payments for all the facilities charges will be paid by the end of fiscal 2014. We also incurred $0.8 million in acquisition-related cost during the period, mainly associated with our CR Software acquisition. Interest Expense Interest expense includes interest on the Senior Notes issued in May 2008 and July 2010, as well as interest and credit facility fees on the revolving line of credit. The quarter over quarter decrease in interest expense of $0.7 million was attributable to the $49.0 million principal payment in May 2013 on the Senior Notes issued in May 2008 resulting in lower average debt balance for the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Over the next several quarters we expect that interest expense will be consistent with what we incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from remeasurement of foreign-currency-denominated receivable and cash balances into their respective functional currencies at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting foreign currency forward contracts, and other non-operating items. The quarter over quarter increase in other expense, net of $0.9 million was primarily attributable to a nonrecurring charge related to our fixed assets balance during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Provision for Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was 37.5% compared to 33.2% for the three months ended December 31, 2012. The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the respective full fiscal year. The effective tax rate in any quarter can also be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution. Our effective tax rate year over year was negatively impacted by: the expiration of the U.S. Federal Research and Development credit; a one-time state audit adjustment incurred in the three months ended December 31, 2013; an adjustment for deferred tax assets due to a change in the tax rate of one of our international jurisdictions; and a higher percentage of revenue expected in higher taxing jurisdictions. 21 Table of Contents Operating Income The following tables set forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the fiscal periods indicated: Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2013 2012 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 29,954 $ 40,945 $ (10,991 ) (27 )% Scores 36,805 30,540 6,265 21 % Tools 4,176 5,536 (1,360 ) (25 )% Corporate expenses (21,757 ) (21,534 ) (223 ) 1 % Total segment operating income 49,178 55,487 (6,309 ) (11 )% Unallocated share-based compensation (7,235 ) (5,832 ) (1,403 ) 24 % Unallocated amortization expense (3,013 ) (3,372 ) 359 (11 )% Unallocated restructuring and acquisition-related (3,660 ) (3,289 ) (371 ) 11 % Operating income $ 35,270 $ 42,994 (7,724 ) (18 )% Applications Quarter Ended Percentage of December 31, Revenues 2013 2012 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 111,916 $ 124,707 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (81,962 ) (83,762 ) (73 )% (67 )% Segment operating income $ 29,954 $ 40,945 27 % 33 % Scores Quarter Ended Percentage of December 31, Revenues 2013 2012 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 47,180 $ 43,447 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (10,375 ) (12,907 ) (22 )% (30 )% Segment operating income $ 36,805 $ 30,540 78 % 70 % 22 Table of Contents Tools Quarter Ended Percentage of December 31, Revenues 2013 2012 2013 2012 (In thousands) Segment revenues $ 25,247 $ 21,866 100 % 100 % Segment operating expense (21,071 ) (16,330 ) (83 )% (75 )% Segment operating income $ 4,176 $ 5,536 17 % 25 % The quarter over quarter $7.7 million decrease in operating income was mainly attributable to a $5.7 million decrease in segment revenues, a $1.4 million increase in share-based compensation cost and a $0.4 million increase in segment operating expenses. At the segment level, the quarter over quarter $6.3 million decrease in segment operating income was primarily driven by an $11.0 million decrease in our Applications segment operating income and a $1.4 million decrease in our Tools segment operating income, partially offset by a $6.3 million increase in our Scores segment operating income. The quarter over quarter $11.0 million decrease in Applications segment operating income was due to a $12.8 million decrease in segment revenue, partially offset by a $1.8 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Applications decreased to 27% from 33% primarily due to a decrease in sales of our higher-margin software products. The quarter over quarter $6.3 million increase in Scores segment operating income was due to a $3.8 million increase in segment revenue attributable to both our myFICO business-to-consumer services and business-to-business services, and a $2.5 million decrease in segment operating expenses. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Score increased to 78% from 70% due to an increase in sales of our higher-margin software products, as well as decreased third-party data cost as a result of favorable terms in a renewed agreement with one credit reporting agency in May 2013. The quarter over quarter $1.4 million decrease in Tools segment operating income was due to a $4.7 million increase in segment operating expenses, partially offset by a $3.3 million increase in segment revenue. Segment operating income as a percentage of segment revenue for Tools decreased to 17% from 25% primarily due to an increase in the research and development efforts related to our cloud-based FICO Decision Management Platform as well as our FICO Model Central TM Solution. CAPITAL RESOURCES AND LIQUIDITY Outlook As of December 31, 2013, we had $95.9 million in cash and cash equivalents which included $71.9 million held off-shore by our foreign subsidiaries. We believe these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $200 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements and any scheduled repayments of existing debt over the course of the next twelve months. Additionally, we do not anticipate the need to repatriate any undistributed earnings from our foreign subsidiaries for the foreseeable future. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited. 23 Table of Contents Summary of Cash Flows Quarter Ended December 31, 2013 2012 (In thousands) Cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 28,378 $ 28,729 Investing activities (2,154 ) (14,567 ) Financing activities (13,257 ) 5,494 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (208 ) (426 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 12,759 $ 19,230 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $28.4 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 from $28.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $0.3 million decrease was mainly attributable to a $6.4 million decrease in net income, partially offset by a $3.1 million increase caused by the timing of receipts and payments in our ordinary course of business. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased to $2.2 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2013 from $14.6 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $12.4 million decrease was primarily attributable to a $27.6 million decrease in net cash used for acquisitions and a $6.8 million decrease in purchases of properties and equipment, partially offset by a $22.0 million decrease in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities totaled $13.3 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 compared to net cash provided of $5.5 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2012. The $18.8 million change was primarily due to a $27.1 million increase in repurchases of common stock, partially offset by an $8.0 million increase in proceeds from our revolving line of credit during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. Repurchases of Common Stock In August 2012, our Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program to acquire shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $150.0 million in the open market or in negotiated transactions. Pursuant to this program, we repurchased 437,854 shares of our common stock for $25.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, we had $40.1 million remaining under the August 2012 authorization. Dividends During the quarter ended December 31, 2013, we paid a quarterly dividend of two cents per common share, which is representative of the eight cents per year dividend we have paid in recent years. Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. Revolving Line of Credit We have a $200 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires on September 28, 2016. Proceeds from the credit facility can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of our common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the credit facility is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate and (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or (ii) LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The margin on LIBOR borrowings ranges from 1.000% to 1.625% and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay utilization fees if borrowings and commitments under the credit facility exceed 50% of the total credit 24 Table of Contents facility commitment, as well as facility fees. The credit facility contains certain restrictive covenants including maintaining a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of 3.0 and a minimum fixed charge ratio of 2.5, and also contains other covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2013, we had $23.0 million in borrowings outstanding at an interest rate of 1.295% and were in compliance with all financial covenants under this credit facility. Senior Notes On May 7, 2008, we issued $275 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2008 Senior Notes). The 2008 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years. The outstanding 2008 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 7.0% and the weighted average maturity is 8.8 years. On July 14, 2010, we issued $245 million of senior notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors (the 2010 Senior Notes and, with the 2008 Senior Notes, the Senior Notes). The 2010 Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 6 to 10 years. The 2010 Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 5.2% and the weighted average maturity is 8.0 years. The Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The purchase agreements for the Senior Notes also include covenants typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2013 we were in compliance with all financial covenants under these facilities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, share-based compensation, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Software Licenses Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, software is made available to our customers, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectability becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue. We use the residual method to recognize revenue when a software arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date provided the following criteria are met: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value does not exist for one or more of the delivered items but exists for all undelivered elements, (ii) all other applicable revenue recognition criteria are met and (iii) the fair value of all of the undelivered elements is less than the arrangement fee. VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the 25 Table of Contents arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period. Transactional-based Revenues Transactional-based revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Revenues from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and internet delivery services are recognized as these services are performed. Revenues from transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, network service and internally-hosted software agreements are recognized based on minimum contractual amounts or on system usage that exceeds minimum contractual amounts. Certain of our transactional-based revenues are based on transaction or active account volumes as reported by our clients. In instances where volumes are reported to us in arrears, we estimate volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information or average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Consulting Services We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we use a proportionate performance model with hours as the input method of attribution to determine progress towards completion, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. In such instances, management is required to estimate the total estimated hours of the project. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual hours in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. Services that are sold in connection with software license arrangements generally qualify for separate accounting from the license element because they do not involve significant production, modification or customization of our products and are not otherwise considered to be essential to the functionality of our software. In arrangements where the professional services do not qualify for separate accounting from the license element, the combined software license and professional services revenue are recognized based on contract accounting using either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract method. Hosting Services We are an application service provider (ASP), where we provide hosting services that allow customers access to software that resides on our servers. The ASP model typically includes an up-front fee and a monthly commitment from the customer that commences upon completion of the implementation through the remainder of the customer life. The up-front fee is the initial setup fee, or the implementation fee. The monthly commitment includes, but is not limited to, a fixed monthly fee or a transactional fee based on system usage that exceeds monthly minimums. Revenue is recognized from ASP transactions when there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the service has been provided to the customer, the amount of fees is fixed or determinable and the collection of our fees is probable. We do not view the activities of signing the contract or providing initial setup services as discrete earnings events. Revenue is typically deferred until the date the customer commences use of our services, at which point the up-front fees are recognized ratably over the expected life of the customer relationship. ASP transactional fees are recorded monthly as earned. 26 Table of Contents Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements Including Non-Software When we enter into a multiple-deliverable arrangement that includes non-software, each deliverable is accounted for as a separate unit of accounting if the following criteria are met: (i) the delivered item or items have value to the customer on a standalone basis and (ii) for an arrangement that includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in our control. We consider a deliverable to have standalone value if we sell this item separately or if the item is sold by another vendor or could be resold by the customer. Further, our revenue arrangements generally do not include a general right of return relative to delivered products. Revenue for multiple element arrangements is allocated to the software and non-software deliverables based on a relative selling price. We use VSOE in our allocation of arrangement consideration when it is available. We define VSOE as a median price of recent standalone transactions that are priced within a narrow range, as defined by us. If a product or service is seldom sold separately, it is unlikely that we can determine VSOE. In circumstances when VSOE does not exist, we then assess whether we can obtain third-party evidence (TPE) of the selling price. It may be difficult for us to obtain sufficient information on competitor pricing to substantiate TPE and therefore we may not always be able to use TPE. When we are unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, we use estimated selling price (ESP) in our allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of ESP is to determine the price at which we would transact if the product or service were sold by us on a standalone basis. Our determination of ESP involves weighting several factors based on the specific facts and circumstances of each arrangement. The factors include, but are not limited to, geographies, market conditions, gross margin objectives, pricing practices and controls, customer segment pricing strategies and the product lifecycle. Gross vs. Net Revenue Reporting We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. Business Combinations Accounting for our acquisitions requires us to recognize, separately from goodwill, the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess of consideration transferred and the net of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. Accounting for business combinations requires our management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, including our estimates for intangible assets, contractual obligations assumed, pre-acquisition contingencies and contingent consideration, where applicable. If we cannot reasonably determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency (non-income tax related) by the end of the measurement period, we will recognize an asset or a liability for such pre-acquisition contingency if: (i) it is probable that an asset existed or a liability had been incurred at the acquisition date and (ii) the amount of the asset or liability can be reasonably estimated. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Subsequent to the measurement period, changes in our estimates of such contingencies will affect earnings and could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired include but are not limited to: (i) future expected cash flows from software license sales, support agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and acquired developed technologies and patents; (ii) expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and (iii) the acquired companys brand and competitive position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand will continue to be used in the combined companys product portfolio. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur that may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances assumed in connection with a business combination are initially estimated as of the acquisition date. We reevaluate these items quarterly based upon facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date with any adjustments to our preliminary estimates being recorded to goodwill provided that we are within the 27 Table of Contents measurement period. Subsequent to the measurement period or our final determination of the tax allowances or contingencys estimated value, whichever comes first, changes to these uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances will affect our provision for income taxes in our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income and could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Impairment Assessment Our business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affects the amount of current and future period charges and amortization expense. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, in connection with our business combinations. We amortize our finite-lived intangible assets over the estimated useful lives. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed at least annually for impairment. The determination of the value of these components of a business combination, as well as associated asset useful lives, requires management to make various estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from product sales and services, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts, and acquired developed technologies and patents or trademarks; the acquired companys brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired products and services will continue to be used in our product portfolio; and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value and useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable. Estimates using different assumptions, or unanticipated events and circumstances could produce significantly different results. We assess potential impairments of our intangible assets when there is evidence that events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. When impairment indicators are identified with respect to our previously recorded intangible assets with finite useful lives, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests indicate impairment, then we measure and record the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting future operating results used in the preparation of the projected cash flows. Should different conditions prevail, material write downs of net intangible assets could occur. We periodically review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased annual amortization expense in future periods. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit levels, which we have determined are the same as our reportable segments, at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The timing and frequency of our goodwill impairment test is based on an ongoing assessment of events and circumstances that would be an indicator of potential impairment of a reporting unit, with the fair value below its carrying value. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using a weighted combination of discounted cash flow valuation model (known as the income approach) and a comparison of our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies (known as the market approach). These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, costs of capital and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We evaluate historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors when estimating these amounts. Using assumptions that are different from those used in our estimates, but in each case reasonable, could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. For example, if the economic environment impacts our forecasts beyond what we have anticipated, it could cause the fair value of a reporting unit to fall below its respective carrying value. The key assumptions that require significant management judgment for the income approach include revenue growth rates and weighted average cost of capital. In our analysis, revenue growth rates were primarily based on third-party studies of industry growth rates for each of our reporting units. Within each reporting unit, management refined these estimates based on their knowledge of the product, the needs of our customers and expected market opportunity. The weighted average cost of capital was determined based on publicly available data such as the long-term yield on U.S. treasury bonds, the expected rate of return on high quality bonds and the returns and betas of various equity instruments. As it relates to the market approach, there is less management judgment in determining the fair value of our reporting units other than selecting which guideline publicly-traded companies are included in our peer group. 28 Table of Contents In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. In step one of that test we compared the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded its respective carrying value in fiscal 2013, indicating the underlying goodwill of each reporting unit was not impaired as of our most recent testing date. Accordingly, we were not required to complete the second step of the goodwill impairment test and recorded no goodwill impairment charges for the twelve months ended September 30, 2013. As discussed above, estimates of fair value for all of our reporting units can be affected by a variety of external and internal factors. We believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management. The timing and recognition of impairment losses by us in the future, if any, may be highly dependent upon our estimates and assumptions. Share-Based Compensation We account for share-based compensation using the fair value recognition provisions as required in the accounting literature. The fair value of options is estimated using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, which requires assumptions for expected volatility of our common stock, expected term of options, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. The fair value of stock units not subject to market conditions is measured based on the grant date fair value of our common stock, discounted for non-participation in anticipated dividends during the vesting period. The fair value of stock units subject to market conditions is estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model, which requires assumptions for expected volatility of our common stock, correlation coefficient, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Share-based compensation cost is recorded net of estimated forfeitures on a straight-line basis for awards not subject to market conditions, and on a graded-vesting basis for awards subject to market conditions, both over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience. Income Taxes We estimate our income taxes based on the various jurisdictions where we conduct business, which involves significant judgment in determining our income tax provision. We estimate our current tax liability using currently enacted tax rates and laws and assess temporary differences that result from differing treatments of certain items for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded on our condensed consolidated balance sheet using the currently enacted tax rates and laws that will apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets are expected to be realized or settled. We then assess the likelihood our deferred tax assets will be realized and to the extent we believe realization is not likely, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in an accounting period, we record a corresponding income tax expense in our condensed consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income. In assessing the need for the valuation allowance, we consider future taxable income in the jurisdictions we operate; an analysis of our deferred tax assets and the periods over which they will be realizable; and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. An increase in the valuation allowance would have an adverse impact, which could be material, on our income tax provision and net income in the period in which we record the increase. We recognize and measure benefits for uncertain tax positions using a two-step approach. The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the technical merits of the tax position indicate it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon audit, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. For tax positions more likely than not of being sustained upon audit, the second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount more than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. Significant judgment is required to evaluate uncertain tax positions and they are evaluated on a quarterly basis. Our evaluations are based upon a number of factors, including changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, correspondence with tax authorities during the course of audits and effective settlement of audit issues. Changes in the recognition or measurement of uncertain tax positions could result in material increases or decreases in our income tax expense in the period in which we make the change, which could have a material impact on our effective tax rate and operating results. A description of our accounting policies associated with tax-related contingencies and valuation allowances assumed as part of a business combination is provided under Business Combinations above. Contingencies and Litigation We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, shareholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. 29 Table of Contents New Accounting Pronouncements Recently Issued or Adopted In July 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU No. 2013-11, Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists. (ASU 2013-11). ASU 2013-11 provides guidance for presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit. ASU 2013-11 provides that a benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except as follows. To the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any additional income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require the entity to use, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. ASU 2013-11 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning on or after December 15, 2013, which means it will be effective for our fiscal year beginning October 1, 2014. We do not believe that adoption of ASU 2013-11 will have a significant impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements.