Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS Statements contained in this Report that are not statements of historical fact should be considered forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the Act). In addition, certain statements in our future filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in press releases, and in oral and written statements made by us or with our approval that are not statements of historical fact constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Act. Examples of forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: (i) projections of revenue, income or loss, earnings or loss per share, the payment or nonpayment of dividends, capital structure and other statements concerning future financial performance; (ii) statements of our plans and objectives by our management or Board of Directors, including those relating to products or services; (iii) statements of assumptions underlying such statements; (iv) statements regarding business relationships with vendors, customers or collaborators; and (v) statements regarding products, their characteristics, performance, sales potential or effect in the hands of customers. Words such as believes, anticipates, expects, intends, targeted, should, potential, goals, strategy, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those in such statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those described in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors, below. The performance of our business and our securities may be adversely affected by these factors and by other factors common to other businesses and investments, or to the general economy. Forward-looking statements are qualified by some or all of these risk factors. Therefore, you should consider these risk factors with caution and form your own critical and independent conclusions about the likely effect of these risk factors on our future performance. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which statements are made, and we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which such statement is made to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events or circumstances. Readers should carefully review the disclosures and the risk factors described in this and other documents we file from time to time with the SEC, including our reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K to be filed by the Company in fiscal 2010. OVERVIEW We are a leader in Decision Management (DM) solutions that enable businesses to automate, improve and connect decisions to enhance business performance. Our predictive analytics, which include the industry standard FICO score, and our Decision Management systems power billions of customer decisions each year. We help companies acquire customers more efficiently, increase customer value, reduce fraud and credit losses, lower operating expenses and enter new markets more profitably. Most leading banks and credit card issuers rely on our solutions, as do many insurers, retailers, healthcare organizations, pharmaceutical companies and government agencies. We also serve consumers through online services that enable people to purchase and understand their FICO scores, the standard measure in the United States of credit risk, empowering them to manage their financial health. Most of our revenues are derived from the sale of products and services within the banking (including consumer credit) and insurance industries, and during the quarter ended December 31, 2009, 78% of our revenues were derived from within these industries. A significant portion of our remaining revenues is derived from the healthcare and retail industries. Our clients utilize our products and services to facilitate a variety of business processes, including customer marketing and acquisition, account origination, credit and underwriting risk management, fraud loss prevention and control, and client account and policyholder management. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from transactional or unit-based software license fees, annual license fees under long-term software license arrangements, transactional fees derived under scoring, network service or internal hosted software arrangements, and annual software maintenance fees. The recurrence of these revenues is, to a significant degree, dependent upon our clients continued usage of our products and services in their business activities. The more significant activities underlying the use of our products in these areas include: credit and debit card usage or active account levels; lending acquisition, origination and customer management activity; and customer acquisition, cross selling and retention programs. Approximately 76% of our revenues during the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were derived from arrangements with transactional or unit-based pricing. We also derive revenues from other sources which generally do not recur and include, but are not limited to, perpetual or time-based licenses with upfront payment terms and non-recurring professional service arrangements. One measure used by management as an indicator of our business performance is the volume of bookings achieved. We define a booking as estimated future contractual revenues, including agreements with perpetual, multi-year and annual terms. Bookings values may include: (i) estimates of variable fee components such as hours to be incurred under new professional services arrangements and 16 Table of Contents customer account or transaction activity for agreements with transactional-based fee arrangements; (ii) additional or expanded business from renewals of contracts; and (iii) to a lesser extent, previous customers that have attrited and been resold only as a result of a significant sales effort. During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we achieved bookings of $59.9 million, including two deals with a booking value of $3.0 million or more. In comparison, bookings in the prior year quarter ended December 31, 2008 were $52.5 million, including one deal with a booking value of $3.0 million or more. Management regards the volume of bookings achieved, among other factors, as an important indicator of future revenues, but they are not comparable to, nor should they be substituted for, an analysis of our revenues, and they are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors below, concerning timing and contingencies affecting product delivery and performance. Although many of our contracts have fixed noncancelable terms, some of our contracts are terminable by the client on short notice. Accordingly, we do not believe it is appropriate to characterize all of our bookings as backlog that will generate future revenue. Our revenues derived from clients outside the United States have generally grown, and may in the future grow, more rapidly than our revenues from domestic clients. International revenues totaled $51.2 million during the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, representing 34% and 31% of total consolidated revenues in each of these periods. We expect that the percentage of our revenues derived from international clients will increase in the future, subject to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations. Reengineering Initiative In January 2009, we completed additional actions under our reengineering initiative. These actions were aimed at reducing costs through headcount reductions and facility consolidations. With respect to the headcount reductions, we identified and eliminated 255 positions throughout the company. We expect annual cost savings of approximately $30 million. Current Business Environment Throughout fiscal 2009 financial markets continued to experience significant volatility and general economic conditions remained unstable. These conditions have had a substantial impact on our customers, especially financial institutions. This has included continued consolidations among our customers, a significant decline in new account acquisition activities and extension of credit by financial institutions and a general slowing of software purchases and related implementation services by our customers. These unfavorable conditions continued to impact our business during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and are expected to continue to affect us through most of fiscal 2010. As a result of this difficult business environment, we will continue to aggressively manage our expenses in an effort to maintain solid earnings and cash flows. We also plan to continue to invest in our Decision Management solutions as well as our core business operations. Segment Information Effective October 1, 2009, we implemented an organizational restructuring resulting in a consolidation of our current operating segment structure from four segments to three. The former Professional Services segment, which represents delivery and integration services, is now included within the applicable segment to which the services relate. Our current segment structure is as follows: Applications . This segment includes the Decision Management applications formerly included within the Strategy Machine Solutions TM segment, excluding our myFICO solutions for consumers, and associated professional services. Scores . This segment includes our business-to-business Scoring Solutions, our myFICO solutions for consumers (previously included in the Strategy Machine TM Solutions segment) and associated professional services. Tools . This segment includes the Decision Management tools formerly included within the Analytic Software Tools segment and associated professional services. Although we sell solutions and services into a large number of end user product and industry markets, our reportable business segments reflect the primary method in which management organizes and evaluates internal financial information to make operating decisions and assess performance. Comparative segment revenues, operating income, and related financial information for the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 are set forth in Note 8 to the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. All periods presented have been restated to reflect the aforementioned changes. 17 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenues The following table sets forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our revenues for the fiscal periods indicated: Period-to-Period Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Percentange Segment 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 92,872 $ 94,945 61 % 58 % $ (2,073 ) (2 )% Scores 41,553 47,641 28 % 29 % (6,088 ) (13 )% Tools 17,071 20,874 11 % 13 % (3,803 ) (18 )% Total revenue $ 151,496 $ 163,460 100 % 100 % (11,964 ) (7 )% Quarter Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Quarter Ended December 31, 2008 Revenues Applications Period-to-Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Percentage Applications 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 66,734 $ 69,590 $ (2,856 ) (4 )% Professional services 21,462 20,937 525 3 % License 4,676 4,418 258 6 % Total $ 92,872 $ 94,945 (2,073 ) (2 )% Applications segment revenues decreased $2.1 million due to a $4.3 million decrease in revenues from our originations solutions and a $2.4 million decrease in our fraud solutions. The revenue decline was partially offset by a $4.6 million increase in our marketing solutions. The decrease in originations solutions was attributable to the June 2009 divestiture of our Liquid Credit Service for Telecom product line, which accounted for $3.2 million of revenue in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in fraud solutions revenues was attributable to the June 2009 divestiture of our RoamEx product line, which accounted for $2.2 million of revenue in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The increase in our marketing solutions revenues was attributable to sales of a new product, FICO Retail Action Manager. Scores Period-to-Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Percenage Scores 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 41,143 $ 47,464 $ (6,321 ) (13 )% Professional services 410 177 233 132 % Total $ 41,553 $ 47,641 (6,088 ) (13 )% 18 Table of Contents Scores segment revenues decreased $6.1 million due to a $4.2 million decrease in our myFICO business-to-consumer services and a $1.9 million decrease in our business-to-business Scores. The decline in our business-to-consumer services was primarily attributable to Experian terminating its relationship with myFICO.com. Business-to-business Scores revenue was impacted by a $1.8 million reduction in revenues from our services sold directly to users. These services have experienced increased pricing pressure in addition to a decline in volumes due to a decrease in prescreening initiatives by our customers. We expect that competitive pricing pressures as well as reduced volumes due to weakness in the U.S. financial credit market will continue to adversely affect segment revenues in fiscal 2010. During the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, revenues generated from our agreements with Equifax, TransUnion and Experian, collectively accounted for approximately 20% and 19%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues from these customers that are recorded in our other segments. Tools Period-to-Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Percentage Tools 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Transactional and maintenance $ 7,229 $ 6,604 $ 625 9 % Professional services 4,365 6,966 (2,601 ) (37 )% License 5,477 7,304 (1,827 ) (25 )% Total $ 17,071 $ 20,874 (3,803 ) (18 )% Tools segment revenues decreased $3.8 million primarily due to a decrease of license sales related to our Blaze Advisor product, which was negatively impacted by the current business environment. In addition, professional services revenue declined due to the completion of several large installations in prior periods. 19 Table of Contents Operating Expenses and Other Income (Expense) The following table sets forth certain summary information related to our statements of income for the fiscal periods indicated: Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Percentage of Revenues Period-to-Period Percentage 2009 2008 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands, except (In thousands, employees) except employees) Revenues $ 151,496 $ 163,460 100 % 100 % $ (11,964 ) (7 )% Operating expenses: Cost of revenues 42,519 59,019 28 % 36 % (16,500 ) (28 )% Research and development 18,976 18,121 13 % 11 % 855 5 % Selling, general and administrative 55,203 54,769 36 % 34 % 434 1 % Amortization of intangible assets 3,165 3,247 2 % 2 % (82 ) (3 )% Restructuring 8,078 % 5 % (8,078 ) (100 )% Total operating expenses 119,863 143,234 79 % 88 % (23,371 ) (16 )% Operating income 31,633 20,226 21 % 12 % 11,407 56 % Interest income 539 1,655 % 1 % (1,116 ) (67 )% Interest expense (5,408 ) (7,158 ) (4) % (4 )% 1,750 (24 )% Other income (expense), net (381 ) 1,446 % 1 % (1,827 ) (126 )% Income from operations before income taxes 26,383 16,169 17 % 10 % 10,214 63 % Provision for income taxes 8,697 4,059 5 % 3 % 4,638 114 % Net income $ 17,686 $ 12,110 12 % 7 % 5,576 46 % Number of employees at quarter end 2,091 2,360 (269 ) (11 )% Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues consists primarily of employee salaries and benefits for personnel directly involved in developing, installing and supporting revenue products; travel costs; overhead costs; costs of computer service bureaus; internal network hosting costs; amounts payable to credit reporting agencies for scores; software costs; and expenses related to our business-to-consumer services. The quarter over quarter decrease of $16.5 million in cost of revenues resulted from an $8.3 million decrease in personnel and other labor-related costs, a $4.5 million decrease in facilities and infrastructure costs, a $2.6 million decrease in third party software and data costs and a $1.1 million decrease in billable travel costs. The decrease in personnel and other labor-related costs was attributable primarily to a decline in salary and related benefit costs resulting from staff reductions and from the decline in professional services activities. The decrease in facilities and infrastructure costs was attributable primarily to a decline in allocated costs resulting from overhead reductions and exiting certain facilities. The decrease in third party software and data costs was due to decreased sales in our consumer solutions that required data acquisition. The decrease in billable travel was driven by the overall reduction in professional services activities. Over the next several quarters, we expect that cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009. Research and Development Research and development expenses include the personnel and related overhead costs incurred in the development of new products and services, including the research of mathematical and statistical models and the development of new versions of Applications and Tools products. 20 Table of Contents The quarter over quarter increase of $0.9 million in research and development expenditures was attributable primarily to a $0.4 million increase in personnel and related costs, a $0.4 million increase in facilities and infrastructure costs and a $0.1 million increase in other expenses. The increase in personnel and related cost was due to increased salaries and incentives for the period ended December 31, 2009. The increase in facilities and infrastructure costs was due to an increase in allocated facility and information system costs. Over the next several quarters, we expect that research and development expenditures as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses consist principally of employee salaries and benefits, travel, overhead, advertising and other promotional expenses, corporate facilities expenses, legal expenses, business development expenses, and the cost of operating computer systems. The quarter over quarter increase of $0.4 million in selling, general and administrative expenses was attributable to a $1.7 million increase in marketing expenses and a $0.9 million increase in personnel and related costs, partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in professional fees, a $0.7 million decrease in bad debt expense and a $0.5 million decrease in other expenses. The quarter over quarter increase in marketing expenses was primarily due to lower expenses incurred in the prior quarter from managements efforts to reduce discretionary spending. Marketing activities were at historical levels in the current quarter. The increase in personnel and related cost was due to increased salaries and incentives for the period ended December 31, 2009. The decline in professional fees was primarily due to decreased legal fees. The decline in bad debt expense was due to successful collection efforts and a decrease in revenues. Over the next several quarters, we expect that selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues will be consistent with those incurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization expense related to intangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. Our definite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of completed technology and customer contracts and relationships, are being amortized using the straight-line method or based on forecasted cash flows associated with the assets over periods ranging from two to fifteen years. In fiscal 2010, we expect that amortization expense will be slightly lower than the amortization expense we recorded in fiscal 2009. Restructuring During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, in connection with our reengineering initiative, we incurred net charges totaling $8.1 million. The charges included $5.9 million for severance costs associated with the reduction of 255 positions throughout the company. Cash payments for all severance costs were paid during fiscal 2009. We also recognized charges of $2.6 million associated with vacating excess leased space. The charge represents future cash lease payments, net of estimated sublease income, which will be paid by fiscal 2018. In addition, we reversed $0.4 million of accrued expenses as a result of a favorable lease termination agreement that we entered into for office space that was previously vacated. Interest Income Interest income is derived primarily from the investment of funds in excess of our immediate operating requirements. The quarter over quarter decrease in interest income of $1.1 million was attributable to a decline in interest rates and investment income yields due to market conditions. Interest Expense Interest expense recorded during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 included interest on our Senior Notes and interest associated with borrowings under our revolving line of credit. The decrease in interest expense of $1.8 million was the result of lower average interest rates on our revolving line of credit. 21 Table of Contents Interest expense associated with our revolving line of credit will likely increase over time due to an increase in market interest rates or if we refinance the revolving line of credit at a higher interest rate. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of realized investment gains/losses, exchange rate gains/losses resulting from re-measurement of foreign-denominated receivable and cash balances into the U.S. dollar functional currency at period-end market rates, net of the impact of offsetting forward exchange contracts, and other non-operating items. Other expense, net in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, primarily consisted of foreign exchange currency losses of $0.3 million. In the quarter ended December 31, 2008, other income, net resulted from foreign exchange currency gains of $1.3 million. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 33.0% and 25.1% during the quarters ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The provision for income taxes during interim quarterly reporting periods is based on our estimates of the effective tax rates for the respective full fiscal year. The tax rate in any quarter can be affected positively or negatively by adjustments that are required to be reported in the specific quarter of resolution. Our effective tax rate for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, was negatively affected by the delay in the extension of the U.S. federal research tax credit. We were unable to recognize this tax credit during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 as legislation providing for reinstatement of this credit was not yet enacted. Operating Income The following table sets forth certain summary information on a segment basis related to our operating income for the fiscal periods indicated. Period-to- Period Quarter Ended December 31, Period-to-Period Percentage Segment 2009 2008 Change Change (In thousands) (In thousands) Applications $ 25,692 $ 19,352 $ 6,340 33 % Scores 27,275 32,368 (5,093 ) (16 )% Tools 2,892 3,889 (997 ) (26 )% Corporate expenses (16,526 ) (18,587 ) 2,061 (11 )% Total segment operating income 39,333 37,022 2,311 6 % Unallocated stock-based compensation (4,535 ) (5,471 ) 936 (17 )% Unallocated amortization expense (3,165 ) (3,247 ) 82 (3 )% Unallocated restructuring (8,078 ) 8,078 (100 )% Operating income $ 31,633 $ 20,226 11,407 56 % The quarter over quarter increase of $11.4 million in operating income was attributable to a reduction in segment and corporate operating expenses, a decrease in restructuring expenses and a decrease in share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a decline in segment revenues. At the segment level, the increase in segment operating income was driven by an increase of $6.3 million in segment operating income in our Applications segment. This increase was partially offset by $5.1 million decrease in segment operating income in our Scores segment and $1.0 million decrease in segment operating income in our Tools segment. The increase in Applications segment operating income was attributable to a significant decline in operating expenses, which was driven by our reengineering initiative. Under the reengineering initiative, we have reduced operating costs through staff reductions, facility consolidations and restriction of discretionary expenditures. The decrease in Scores segment operating income was attributable primarily to a decline in revenues derived from business-to-consumer services and services that we provided directly to users in financial services. 22 Table of Contents In our Tools segment, the decrease in segment operating income was primarily attributed to a decrease in Blaze Advisor revenues, partially offset by lower operating expenses, which was driven by our reengineering initiative. The decrease in corporate expenses was due to staff reductions and facility consolidations, driven by our reengineering initiative. Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flows from Operating Activities Our primary method for funding operations and growth has been through cash flows generated from operating activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $31.3 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 from $36.7 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The reduction in operating cash flows was due partially to a decrease in the liability for compensation and employees benefits, primarily due to the timing of payments. Operating cash flows were positively impacted by an increase in earnings, an increase in other liabilities and deferred revenue and a decrease in accounts receivable. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities totaled $31.1 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2009, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $5.9 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The change in cash flows from investing activities was primarily attributable to $35.2 million in proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 compared to $1.6 million that was used for purchases of marketable securities, net of proceeds from maturities, during the quarter ended December 31, 2008. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities totaled $34.6 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2009, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $2.4 million in the quarter ended December 31, 2008. The change in cash flows from financing activities was primarily due to $33.4 million of common stock repurchased in the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and a $3.7 million decrease in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Repurchases of Common Stock In November 2007, our Board of Directors approved a common stock repurchase program that allows us to purchase shares of our common stock up to an aggregate cost of $250.0 million. From time to time, we repurchase our common stock in the open market pursuant to this program. During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we repurchased 1.7 million shares of our common stock for $33.4 million. As of December 31, 2009, we had $96.3 million remaining under this authorization. Dividends During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we paid a quarterly dividend of two cents per common share, which is representative of the eight cents per year dividend we have paid in recent years. Our dividend rate is set by the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis taking into account a variety of factors, including among others, our operating results and cash flows, general economic and industry conditions, our obligations, changes in applicable tax laws and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Although we expect to continue to pay dividends at the current rate, our dividend rate is subject to change from time to time based on the Boards business judgment with respect to these and other relevant factors. Revolving Line of Credit We have a $600 million unsecured revolving line of credit with a syndicate of banks that expires in October 2011. Proceeds from the revolving line of credit can be used for working capital and general corporate purposes and may also be used for the refinancing of existing debt, acquisitions, and the repurchase of the Companys common stock. Interest on amounts borrowed under the revolving line of credit is based on (i) a base rate, which is the greater of (a) the prime rate and (b) the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% or (ii) LIBOR plus an applicable margin. The margin on LIBOR borrowings ranges from 0.30% to 0.55% and is determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio. In addition, we must pay utilization fees if borrowings and commitments under the revolving line of credit exceed 50% of the total commitment, as well as facility fees. The revolving line of credit contains certain restrictive covenants, including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The revolving line of credit also contains covenants 23 Table of Contents typical of unsecured facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all covenants under the revolving line of credit and we had $295.0 million of borrowings outstanding at an interest rate of 0.6%. Senior Notes In May 2008, we issued $275 million of Senior Notes in a private placement to a group of institutional investors. The Senior Notes were issued in four series with maturities ranging from 5 to 10 years. The Senior Notes weighted average interest rate is 6.8% and the weighted average maturity is 7.9 years. The Senior Notes are subject to certain restrictive covenants that are substantially similar to those in the credit agreement for the revolving line of credit including maintenance of consolidated leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The purchase agreement for the Senior Notes also includes covenants typical of unsecured facilities. Capital Resources and Liquidity Outlook As of December 31, 2009, we had $371.4 million in cash, cash equivalents and marketable security investments. We believe that these balances, as well as available borrowings from our $600 million revolving line of credit and anticipated cash flows from operating activities, will be sufficient to fund our working and other capital requirements and any scheduled repayments of existing debt over the course of the next twelve months. Under our current financing arrangements we have no significant debt obligations maturing until October 2011. In the normal course of business, we evaluate the merits of acquiring technology or businesses, or establishing strategic relationships with or investing in these businesses. We may elect to use available cash and cash equivalents and marketable security investments to fund such activities in the future. In the event additional needs for cash arise, or if we refinance our existing debt, we may raise additional funds from a combination of sources, including the potential issuance of debt or equity securities. Additional financing might not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds were not available or were not available on acceptable terms, our ability to take advantage of unanticipated opportunities or respond to competitive pressures could be limited. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. These accounting principles require management to make certain judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We periodically evaluate our estimates including those relating to revenue recognition, the allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from business acquisitions, income taxes and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable based on the specific circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of certain assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We believe the following critical accounting policies involve the most significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Revenue Recognition Software license fee revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery of the product has occurred at our customers location, the fee is fixed or determinable and collection is probable. We use the residual method to recognize revenue when an arrangement includes one or more elements to be delivered at a future date and vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of the fair value of all undelivered elements exists. VSOE of fair value is based on the normal pricing practices for those products and services when sold separately by us and customer renewal rates for post-contract customer support services. Under the residual method, the fair value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining portion of the arrangement fee is recognized as revenue. If evidence of the fair value of one or more undelivered elements does not exist, the revenue is deferred and recognized when delivery of those elements occurs or when fair value can be established. The determination of whether fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable involves the use of assumptions. We evaluate contract terms and customer information to ensure that these criteria are met prior to our recognition of license fee revenue. Changes to the elements in a software arrangement, the ability to identify VSOE for those elements, the fair value of the respective elements, and change to a products estimated life cycle could materially impact the amount of earned and unearned revenue. 24 Table of Contents When software licenses are sold together with implementation or consulting services, license fees are recognized upon delivery provided that the above criteria are met, payment of the license fees is not dependent upon the performance of the services, and the services do not provide significant customization or modification of the software products and are not essential to the functionality of the software that was delivered. For arrangements with services that are essential to the functionality of the software, the license and related service revenues are recognized using contract accounting as described below. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes fixed or determinable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. If at the outset of an arrangement we determine that collectibility is not probable, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectibility becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance, expiration of the acceptance period, or when we can demonstrate we meet the acceptance criteria. Revenues from post-contract customer support services, such as software maintenance, are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the support period. The majority of our software maintenance agreements provide technical support as well as unspecified software product upgrades and releases when and if made available by us during the term of the support period. Revenues recognized from our credit scoring, data processing, data management and internet delivery services are recognized as these services are performed, provided persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Such revenues are a function of the transaction volumes reported by our clients, accordingly, the determination of certain of our credit scoring and data processing revenues requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are reported to us by our clients on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information, if available, or based on average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate transaction volumes in the future, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data was received, and this could have a material impact on our results of operations during the period of time that we changed accounting methods. Transactional or unit-based license fees under software license arrangements, network service and internally-hosted software agreements are recognized as revenue based on system usage or when fees based on system usage exceed monthly minimum license fees, provided persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are fixed or determinable and collection is probable. The determination of certain of our transactional or unit-based license fee revenues requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction usage or active account volumes in instances where this information is reported to us by our clients on a monthly or quarterly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on preliminary customer transaction information, if available, or based on average actual reported volumes for an immediate trailing period. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past and anticipate that we will be able to continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If for some reason we were unable to reasonably estimate customer account or transaction volumes in the future, revenue would be deferred until actual customer data was received, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. We provide consulting, training, model development and software integration services under both hourly-based time and materials and fixed-priced contracts. Revenues from these services are generally recognized as the services are performed. For fixed-price service contracts, we apply the percentage-of-completion method of contract accounting to determine progress towards completion, which requires the use of estimates. In such instances, management is required to estimate the input measures, generally based on hours incurred to date compared to total estimated hours of the project, with consideration also given to output measures, such as contract milestones, when applicable. Adjustments to estimates are made in the period in which the facts requiring such revisions become known and, accordingly, recognized revenues and profits are subject to revisions as the contract progresses to completion. Estimated losses, if any, are recorded in the period in which current estimates of total contract revenue and contract costs indicate a loss. If substantive uncertainty related to customer acceptance of services exists, we apply the completed contract method of accounting and defer the associated revenue until the contract is completed. If we are unable to accurately estimate the input measures used for percentage-of-completion accounting, revenue would be deferred until the contract is complete, and this could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Revenue recognized under the percentage-of-completion method in excess of contract billings is recorded as an unbilled receivable. Such amounts are generally billable upon reaching certain performance milestones as defined by individual contracts. Billings collected in advance of performance and recognition of revenue under contracts is recorded as deferred revenue. In certain of our non-software arrangements, we enter into contracts that include the delivery of a combination of two or more of our service offerings. Typically, such multiple element arrangements incorporate the design and development of data management tools or systems and an ongoing obligation to manage, host or otherwise run solutions for our customer. Such arrangements are divided into separate units of accounting provided that the delivered item has stand-alone value and there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered items. The total arrangement fee is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their fair values and to the initial delivered elements using the residual method. Revenue is recognized separately, and in accordance with our revenue recognition policy, for each element. As described above, sometimes our customer arrangements have multiple deliverables, including service elements. Generally, our multiple element arrangements fall within the scope of specific accounting standards that provide guidance regarding the separation of elements in multiple-deliverable arrangements and the allocation of consideration among those elements. If not, we apply separation provisions, which require us to unbundle multiple element arrangements into separate units of accounting when the delivered element(s) has stand-alone value and fair value of the undelivered element(s) exists. When we are able to unbundle the arrangement into separate units of accounting, we apply one of the accounting policies described above to each unit. If we are unable to unbundle the arrangement into separate units of accounting, we apply one of the accounting policies described above to the entire arrangement. Sometimes this results in recognizing the entire arrangement fee when delivery of the last element in a multiple element arrangement occurs. For example, if the last undelivered element is a service, we recognize revenue for the entire arrangement fee as the service is performed, or if no pattern of performance is discernable, we recognize revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the arrangement. We apply accounting guidance to determine whether we report revenue for certain transactions based upon the gross amount billed to the customer, or the net amount retained by us. In accordance with the guidance we record revenue on a gross basis for sales in which we have acted as the principal and on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We make estimates regarding the collectibility of our accounts receivable. When we evaluate the adequacy of our allowance for doubtful accounts, we analyze specific accounts receivable balances, historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness, current economic trends and changes in our customer payment cycles. Material differences may result in the amount and timing of expense for any period if we were to make different judgments or utilize different estimates. If the financial condition of our customers deteriorates resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, additional allowances might be required. Business Acquisitions; Valuation of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Our business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of current and future period charges and amortization expense. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, in connection with our business combinations accounted for by the purchase method of accounting. We amortize our definite-lived intangible assets based on forecasted cash flows associated with the assets over the estimated useful lives. Goodwill is not amortized, but is assessed at least annually for impairment. The determination of the value of these components of a business combination, as well as associated asset useful lives, requires management to make various estimates and assumptions. Critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from product sales and services, maintenance agreements, consulting contracts, customer contracts, and acquired developed technologies and patents or trademarks; the acquired companys brand awareness and market position, as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired products and services will continue to be used in our product portfolio; and discount rates. Managements estimates of fair value and useful lives are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur and assumptions may change. Estimates using different assumptions could also produce significantly different results. We continually review the events and circumstances related to our financial performance and economic environment for factors that would provide evidence of the impairment of our intangible assets. When impairment indicators are identified with respect to our previously recorded intangible assets with finite useful lives, we test for impairment using undiscounted cash flows. If such tests 26 Table of Contents indicate impairment, then we measure the impairment as the difference between the carrying value of the asset and the fair value of the asset, which is measured using discounted cash flows. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are assessed annually for impairment by comparing the fair value of such intangible assets, measured using discounted cash flows, to the respective fair value. To the extent the fair value is less than the associated carrying value, impairment is recorded. Significant management judgment is required in forecasting of future operating results, which are used in the preparation of the projected discounted cash flows and should different conditions prevail, material write downs of net intangible assets and other long-lived assets could occur. We periodically review the estimated remaining useful lives of our acquired intangible assets. A reduction in our estimate of remaining useful lives, if any, could result in increased amortization expense in future periods. We test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level at least annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year and more frequently if impairment indicators are identified. We have determined that our reporting units are the same as our reportable segments. The first step of the goodwill impairment test is a comparison of the fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units using discounted cash flow valuation models and by comparing our reporting units to guideline publicly-traded companies. These methods require estimates of our future revenues, profits, capital expenditures, working capital, and other relevant factors, as well as selecting appropriate guideline publicly-traded companies for each reporting unit. We estimate these amounts by evaluating historical trends, current budgets, operating plans, industry data, and other relevant factors. The estimated fair value of each of our reporting units exceeded its respective carrying value as of our last testing date on July 1, 2009, indicating the underlying goodwill of each reporting unit was not impaired. Accordingly, we were not required to complete the second step of the goodwill impairment test. The timing and frequency of our goodwill impairment test is based on an ongoing assessment of events and circumstances that would more than likely reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. There are various assumptions and estimates underlying the determination of an impairment loss, and estimates using different, but each reasonable, assumptions could produce significantly different results and materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. We believe that the assumptions and estimates utilized were appropriate based on the information available to management. The timing and recognition of impairment losses by us in the future, if any, may be highly dependent upon our estimates and assumptions. Due to ongoing uncertainty in economic conditions and weakness in financial credit markets, which have adversely affected the fair value of our reporting units, we will continue to carefully monitor and evaluate the carrying value of goodwill. We had $668.5 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2009. As of the most recent testing date (July 1, 2009), the fair value of our reporting units (as configured at that time) exceeded their respective carrying values by between $20 million and $329 million. However, if difficult market and economic conditions continue over a sustained period, we may experience a further decline in the fair value of one or more of our reporting units as compared to fiscal 2009 year-end levels. Such further declines in fair value may require us to record an impairment charge related to goodwill. Share-Based Compensation We account for share-based compensation using the fair value recognition provisions as required in the accounting literature. We estimate the fair value of options granted using the Black-Scholes option valuation model. We estimate the volatility of our common stock at the date of grant based on a combination of the implied volatility of publicly traded options on our common stock and our historical volatility rate. Our decision to use implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. We estimate the expected term of options granted based on historical exercise patterns. The dividend yield assumption is based on historical dividend payouts. The risk-free interest rate assumption is based on observed interest rates appropriate for the term of our employee options. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting option forfeitures and record share-based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. For options granted, we amortize the fair value on a straight-line basis. All options are amortized over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. If factors change we may decide to use different assumptions under the Black-Scholes option valuation model in the future, which could materially affect our share-based compensation expense, net income and earnings per share. 27 Table of Contents Income Taxes We use the asset and liability approach to account for income taxes. This methodology recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts and the tax base of assets and liabilities and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We then record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that more likely than not will be realized. We consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, which requires the use of estimates. If we determine during any period that we could realize a larger net deferred tax asset than the recorded amount, we would adjust the deferred tax asset to increase income for the period or reduce goodwill if such deferred tax asset relates to an acquisition. Conversely, if we determine that we would be unable to realize a portion of our recorded deferred tax asset, we would adjust the deferred tax asset to record a charge to income. To the extent an adjustment in our deferred tax assets relates to a business combination the adjustment is recorded either in income from continuing operations in the period of the combination or directly in contributed capital, depending on the circumstances. Although we believe that our estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that our valuation allowance will not need to be increased to cover additional deferred tax assets that may not be realizable, and such an increase could have a material adverse impact on our income tax provision and results of operations in the period in which such determination is made. In addition, the calculation of tax liabilities also involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with managements expectations could also have a material impact on our income tax provision and results of operations in the period in which such determination is made. We adopted accounting guidance related to the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes on October 1, 2007. The cumulative effect of the change did not result in an adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings. Following implementation, the ongoing recognition of changes in measurement of uncertain tax positions will be reflected as a component of income tax expense. Contingencies and Litigation We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims relating to products and services, technology, labor, shareholder and other matters. We are required to assess the likelihood of any adverse outcomes and the potential range of probable losses in these matters. If the potential loss is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. If the potential loss is considered less than probable or the amount cannot be reasonably estimated, disclosure of the matter is considered. The amount of loss accrual or disclosure, if any, is determined after analysis of each matter, and is subject to adjustment if warranted by new developments or revised strategies. Due to uncertainties related to these matters, accruals or disclosures are based on the best information available at the time. Significant judgment is required in both the assessment of likelihood and in the determination of a range of potential losses. Revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position or consolidated results of operations. New Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2009, the FASB issued new accounting guidance related to the consolidation of variable interest entities. The guidance requires revised evaluations of whether entities represent variable interest entities, ongoing assessments of control over such entities, and additional disclosures for variable interests. We are in the process of determining what effect, if any, the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance related to non-software revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. The guidance eliminates the requirement for entities to have objective and reliable evidence of fair value to separately account for deliverables. In many cases, this will create more units of accounting and less revenue deferral because certain deliverables previously were not separable from other elements of an arrangement. The guidance will also require the use of the relative selling price approach to allocate the arrangement fees to the deliverables; use of the residual method is no longer acceptable. In addition, the FASB issued new guidance that narrows the definition of products subject to software accounting rules to exclude certain tangible products that contain software and non-software elements that function together to deliver the combined products essential functionality. As such, certain products that were previously accounted for under the scope of software revenue recognition guidance will no longer be accounted for as software. The guidance for both standards is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 (though early adoption is permitted) and entities can elect to apply this issue on a prospective or a retrospective basis. We are in the process of determining what effect, if any; the adoption of this guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 28 Table of Contents