ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. As used herein, "Fastly," "we," "our," "the Company" and similar terms include Fastly, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview Developers are reinventing the way we live, work, and play online. Yet they repeatedly encounter innovation barriers when delivering modern digital experiences. Expectations for digital experiences are at an all-time high; they must be fast, secure, and highly personalized. If they arent reliable, end-users simply take their business elsewhere. The challenge today is enabling developers to deliver a modern digital experience while simultaneously providing scale, security, and performance. We built our edge cloud platform to solve this problem. The edge cloud is a new category of Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS") that enables developers to build, secure, and deliver digital experiences, at the edge of the internet. This service represents the convergence of the Content Delivery Network ("CDN") with functionality that has been traditionally delivered by hardware-centric appliances such as Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Web Application Firewalls ("WAF"), Bot Detection, and Distributed Denial of Service ("DDoS") solutions. It also includes the emergence of a new, but growing, edge computing market which aims to move compute power and logic as close to the end-user as possible. The edge cloud uses the emerging cloud computing, serverless paradigm in which the cloud provider runs the server and dynamically manages the allocation of machine resources. When milliseconds matter, processing at the edge is an ideal way to handle highly dynamic and time-sensitive data. The edge cloud complements data center, central cloud, and hybrid solutions. Our mission is to fuel the next modern digital experience by providing developers with a programmable and reliable edge cloud platform that they adopt as their own. Organizations must keep up with complex and ever-evolving end-user requirements. We help them surpass their end-users expectations by powering fast, secure, and scalable digital experiences. We built a powerful edge cloud platform, designed from the ground up to be programmable and support agile software development. We believe our platform gives our customers a significant competitive advantage, whether they were born into the digital age or are just embarking on their digital transformation journey. Our platform consists of three key components: a programmable edge, a software-defined modern network, and a philosophy of customer empowerment. Our programmable edge provides developers with real-time visibility and control, where they can write and deploy code to push application logic to the edge. It supports modern application delivery processes, freeing developers to innovate without constraints. We recently launched the beta of Compute@Edge, a powerful new language-agnostic compute environment, designed to empower developers to build far more advanced edge applications with greater security, more robust logic, and new levels of performance. Our software-defined modern network is built for the software-defined future. It is powerful, efficient, and flexible, designed to enable us to rapidly scale to meet the needs of the most demanding customers and never be a barrier to their growth. As of March 31, 2020 , our 88 terabit software-centric network is located in 72 uniquely designed Points-of-Presence ("POPs") across 55 markets around the world. Finally, being developers ourselves, we empower customers to build great things while supporting their efforts through frictionless tools and a deeply technical support team that facilitates ongoing collaboration. We serve both established enterprises and technology-savvy organizations. Our customers represent a diverse set of organizations across many industries with one thing in common: they are competing by using the power of software to build differentiation at the edge. With our edge cloud platform, our customers are disrupting existing industries and creating new ones. For example, several of our customers have reinvented digital publishing by connecting readers through subscription models to indispensable content, helping people understand the world through deeply reported independent journalism. Our customers software applications use our edge cloud platform to ensure concert goers can buy tickets to the live events they love, travelers can book flights seamlessly and embark on their next great adventure, and sports fans can stream events in real 31 time, across all devices. The range of applications that developers build with our edge cloud platform continues to surpass our expectations. We generate substantially all of our revenue from charging our customers based on their usage of our platform. Initially, customers typically choose to become platform customers, for which we charge fees based on their committed or actual use of our platform, as measured in gigabytes and requests. Many of our customers generate billings in excess of their minimum commitment. We also generate revenue from additional products as well as professional and other services, such as implementation. We charge a flat one-time or recurring fee for these additional products and services. Potential customers have the opportunity to test our platform for free. If they choose to make use of our platform for live production delivery, they have the ability to sign up online by providing their credit card information and agreeing to a minimum monthly fee of $50. We focus our direct selling efforts on medium to large organizations as well as smaller companies that are exhibiting significant growth. We engage with and support these customers with our field sales representatives, account managers, and technical account managers who focus on customer satisfaction and drive expansion of their usage of our platform and products. These teams work with technical and business leaders to help our customers end-users receive the best possible digital experience, while also lowering our customers total cost of ownership. We have established and continue to maintain our position by improving upon our programmable edge platform and software-defined modern network architecture. We continue to focus on empowering our developer community through events and conferences, including our Altitude conferences, and online digital engagement. The success of these direct selling efforts is reflected by our 297 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2020 that generated 88% of our total revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 . As our customers become more successful and grow, they increase their usage of our platform and adopt additional Fastly products. A meaningful indicator of the increased activity from our existing customer accounts and overall customer satisfaction is our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER"), which was 133.0% and 130.4% for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. For a more complete description and discussion of DBNER, refer to the section titled "Key Business Metrics". Customers that have negotiated contracts with us generate a substantial majority of our revenue. These customers typically purchase one or more products, for which we charge a monthly recurring or one-time fee depending on the products selected. Some of these customers also choose to purchase various levels of account management and enhanced customer support for a monthly fee. Typically, the term of these contracts is 12 months and includes a minimum monthly billing commitment in exchange for more favorable pricing terms. The timing of our sales is difficult to predict. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to payment, can range from several months to well over a year and can vary substantially from customer to customer. Similarly, the onboarding and ramping process with new enterprise customers can take several months. We have achieved significant growth in recent periods. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , our revenue was $62.9 million and $45.6 million , respectively. Our 10 largest customers generated an aggregate of 31% and 31% of our revenue in the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. We incurred a net loss of $12.0 million and $9.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , respectively. Recent Events Executive Leadership Change On February 18, 2020, Artur Bergman stepped down as our Chief Executive Officer and was appointed as our Chief Architect and Executive Chairperson. Mr. Bergman continues to serve as a member of our Board of Directors, and was appointed as Chairperson of the Board on February 18, 2020. In addition, the Board appointed Joshua Bixby as our Chief Executive Officer. In connection with Mr. Bixby's appointment, the Board expanded the size of the Board from six (6) to seven (7) members and appointed Mr. Bixby to serve as a Class I director. Mr. Bixby's term as a member of the Board will expire at the meeting of the stockholders to be held in June 2020. Mr. Bixby does not serve on any committees of the Board. Further details on the executive leadership change are described our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. 32 Factors Affecting Our Performance Winning New Customers We are focused on continuing to attract new customers. Our customer base includes both large, established enterprises that are undergoing digital transformation and emerging companies spanning a wide array of industries and verticals. In both instances, developers within these companies often use and advocate the adoption of our platform by their companies. We also benefit from word-of-mouth promotion across the broader developer community. We will continue to invest in our developer outreach, leveraging it as a cost-efficient approach to attracting new customers. We also plan to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs, including various online marketing activities as well as targeted account-based advertising. This will require us to dedicate significant resources to further develop the market for our platform and differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. We will also need to expand, retain, and motivate our sales and marketing personnel in order to target our sales efforts at larger enterprises and senior management of these potential customers. Expanding within our Existing Customer Base We emphasize retaining our customers and expanding their usage of our platform and adoption of our other products. Customers often begin with smaller deployments of our programmable edge platform and then expand their usage over time. In addition, our programmable edge platform includes a variety of other offerings, such as load balancing, shielding, web security, and WAF. As our customers mature, we assist them in expanding their use of our platform, including the use of additional offerings beyond edge cloud delivery. As enterprises grow and experience increased traffic, their needs evolve, leading them to find additional use cases for our platform and expand their usage accordingly. In addition, given that customer acquisition costs are incurred largely for acquiring and initial onboarding, we gain operating leverage to the extent that existing customers expand their use of our platform and products. Our ability to retain our customers and expand their usage could be impaired for a variety of reasons, including a customer moving to another provider or reducing usage within the term of their contract to their minimum usage commitment. Even if our customers expand their usage of our platform, we cannot guarantee that they will maintain those usage levels for any meaningful period of time or that they will renew their commitments. International Customer Growth We intend to continue expanding our efforts to attract customers outside of the United States by augmenting our sales teams and strategically increasing the number of points of presence ("POPs") in select international locations. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019 , 51% and 45% of our customers were headquartered outside of the United States, respectively. Our international expansion, including our global sales efforts, will add increased complexity and cost to our business. This will require us to significantly expand our sales and marketing capabilities outside of the United States, as well as increase the number of POPs around the world to support our customers. We have limited experience managing the administrative aspects of a global organization, and we have only recently begun to establish and operate offices in foreign countries, which could place a strain on our business and culture. Investing in Sales and Marketing Our customers have been pivotal in driving brand awareness and broadening our reach. While we continue to leverage our self-service approach to drive adoption by developers, we intend to continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts, with an increased focus on sales to enterprises globally. Utilizing our direct sales force, we have multiple selling points within organizations to acquire new customers and increase usage from our existing customers. We intend to increase our discretionary marketing spend, including account based and brand spend, to drive the effectiveness of our sales teams. As a result, we expect our total operating expenses to increase as we continue to expand. Our investments in our sales and marketing teams are intended to help accelerate our sales, onboarding, and ramp cycles. As of March 31, 2020 , we had 62 sales representatives and sales managers across our company. These efforts will require us to invest significantly in financial and other resources. Furthermore, we believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. 33 Continued Investment in Our Platform and Network Infrastructure We must continue to invest in our platform and network infrastructure to maintain our position in the market. We expect our revenue growth to be dependent on an expanding customer base and continued adoption of our edge cloud platform. In anticipation of winning new customers and staying ahead of our customers needs, we plan to continue to invest in order to expand the scale and capacity of our software-defined modern network, resulting in increased network service provider fees, which could adversely affect our gross margins if we are unable to offset these costs with revenue from new customers and increase revenue from existing customers. Our customers require constant innovation within their own organizations and expect the same from us. Therefore, we will continue to invest in resources to enhance our development capabilities and introduce new products and features on our platform. We believe that investment in research and development will contribute to our long-term growth but may also negatively impact our short-term profitability. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue was 23% . Developers use our platform to build custom applications and require a state-of-the-art infrastructure to test and run these applications. We will continue to invest in our network infrastructure by strategically increasing our POPs. We also anticipate making investments in upgrading our technology and hardware to continue providing our customers a fast and secure platform. Our total investment in property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $13.5 million , representing 21% of our revenue in such periods. We expect our investment in property and equipment to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Our gross margins and operating results are impacted by these investments. As of March 31, 2020 , we had 72 POPs are located in 55 markets across 26 countries. In the event that there are errors in software, failures of hardware, damages to a facility or misconfigurations of any of our serviceswhether caused by our products, third-party error, our own error, natural disasters, or security breacheswe could experience lengthy interruptions in our platform as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly when customers experience cyber-attacks. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including service outages, payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. Uncertainty of Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. As certain of our customers or potential customers experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue resulting from the spread of COVID-19, they have and may continue to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or seek renegotiations of their contracts, any of which may result in decreased revenue for us. In addition, we have experienced and may continue to experience customer losses, including due to bankruptcy or our customers ceasing operations, which may continue to result in an inability to collect receivables from these customers. In addition, a portion of our revenue is related to usage of our platform in connection with live events, such as sporting events that have been or may be postponed or cancelled. A decline in revenue or the collectability of our receivables could harm our business. The nature and extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our customers and our customers response to the COVID-19 pandemic is difficult to assess or predict, and we may be unable to accurately forecast our revenues or financial results, especially given that the near and long term impact of the pandemic remains uncertain. We have seen an increase in usage of our platform following the implementation of preventative measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of COVID-19. However, we cannot predict how long we will see this increased level of usage as these preventative measures, including shelter-in-place orders, school closures, travel bans and restrictions, limitations on business activity, quarantines, and other related measures and community practices, change over time. Our results of operations could be materially above or below our forecasts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, and/or cause our stock price to decline. The COVID-19 pandemic has been declared a national emergency in many countries. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, many state, local, and foreign governments have put in place, and others in the future may put in place, quarantines, executive orders, shelter-in-place orders, and similar government orders and restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. Such orders or restrictions, or the perception that such orders or restrictions could occur, have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellation or postponement of events, among other effects that could negatively impact productivity and disrupt our operations and those of our partners and customers. In March 2020, we closed all of our offices, suspended non-essential travel, cancelled or postponed Fastly-sponsored events, and discouraged employee attendance at industry events and in-person work-related meetings. We may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or which we 34 determine are in our best interests. While much of our operations can be performed remotely, certain activities such as expanding and maintaining our network of POPs around the world often require personnel to be on-site, and our ability to carry out these activities may be negatively impacted if our employees or local data center personnel are not able to travel. For activities that may be conducted remotely, there is no guarantee that we will be as effective while working remotely because our team is dispersed, employees may have less capacity to work due to increased personal obligations (such as childcare, eldercare, or caring for family who become sick), may become sick themselves and be unable to work, or may be otherwise negatively affected, mentally or physically, by the COVID-19 pandemic and prolonged social distancing. Decreased effectiveness and availability of our team could adversely affect our results due to slow-downs in our sales cycles and recruiting efforts, delays in our entry into customer contracts, delays in addressing performance issues, delays in product development, delays and inefficiencies among various operational aspects of our business, including our financial organization, or other decreases in productivity that could seriously harm our business. Moreover, our finance organizations ability to ensure that we comply with the requirements of Section 404 may be impaired, including the ability of our registered public accounting firm to issue an attestation report on managements assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we may decide to postpone or cancel planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business as a result of the spread of COVID-19, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. Our business is also dependent upon the timely supply of certain parts and components manufactured in China to construct our servers. To the extent that our suppliers are impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, it likely will reduce the availability, or result in delays, of parts and components to us, which in turn could interrupt our ability to complete the construction of our servers to meet the usage needs of our customers. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, reducing our ability to access capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. The global impact of COVID-19 continues to rapidly evolve, and we will continue to monitor the situation closely. We have undertaken business continuity planning to identify and address the risks to our business posed by this pandemic, and have, among other things, prepared to eliminate single points of failure among our employees to address the decrease in employee productivity. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We do not yet know the full extent of potential delays or impacts on our business, operations, or the global economy as a whole. While the spread of COVID-19 may eventually be contained or mitigated, there is no guarantee that a future outbreak of this or any other widespread epidemics will not occur, or that the global economy will recover, either of which could harm our business. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Key Business Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the key metrics presented in the table below, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of the key metrics and other measures discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. March 31, 2020 2019 Number of customers (as of end of period) 1,837 1,621 Number of enterprise customers (as of end of period) 297 243 DBNER (trailing 12 months) 133.0 % 130.4 % Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers is an important indicator of the adoption of our platform. Our definition of a customer consists of identifiable operating entities with which we have a billing relationship in good standing, from which we recognized revenue during the period, and are active as of the end of the period. In addition to our paying customers, we also 35 have trial, developer, nonprofit and open source program, and other non-paying accounts that are excluded from our customer count metric. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019 , we had 1,837 and 1,621 customers, respectively. Number of Enterprise Customers Historically our revenue has been driven primarily by a subset of customers who have leveraged our platform substantially from a usage standpoint. These enterprise customers are defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the previous 12-month period. As of March 31, 2020 , we had 297 enterprise customers which generated 88% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 . As of March 31, 2019 , we had 243 enterprise customers which generated 85% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2019 . We believe the recruitment and cultivation of enterprise customers is critical to our long-term success. DBNER Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is dependent upon our ability to increase the number of new customers and usage of our platform and increase the purchase of additional products by our existing customers. We track our performance in this area by measuring our DBNER. Our DBNER increases when customers increase their usage of our platform or purchase additional products, and declines when they reduce their usage, benefit from lower pricing on their existing usage, or curtail their purchases of additional products. We believe DBNER is a key metric in measuring the long-term value of our customer relationships and our ability to grow our revenue through increased usage of our platform and purchase of additional products by our existing customers. However, our calculation of DBNER indicates only expansion among continuing customers and does not indicate any decrease in revenue attributable to former customers, which may differ from similar metrics of other companies. We calculate DBNER by dividing the revenue for a given period from customers who remained customers as of the last day of the given period ("current period") by the revenue from the same customers for the same period measured one year prior ("base period"). The revenue included in the current period excludes revenue from (i) customers that churned after the end of the base period and (ii) new customers that entered into a customer agreement after the end of the base period. For example, to calculate our DBNER for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 , we divide (i) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 , from customers that entered into a customer agreement on or before March 31, 2019, and that remained customers as of March 31, 2020 , by (ii) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2019 , from the same set of customers. For the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 our DBNER was 133.0% and 130.4% , respectively. We believe that an annual cohort analysis of our customers demonstrates our success in customer expansion. Once a customer begins to generate revenue for us, they tend to increase their usage of our platform, in particular in their second year. Customer accounts acquired in 2017, 2018, and 2019 are referred to as the 2017 Cohort, 2018 Cohort, and 2019 Cohort, respectively. As described above, our customers tend to increase their usage of our platform in their second year, which is typically followed by more modest increases in usage, if any, in ensuing years. For example, the DBNER for the 2017 Cohort was 305.5% for the year ended December 31, 2018. However, the DBNER for the 2017 Cohort was 144.3% for the year ended December 31, 2019, which generally represents their third year as a customer, depending on when they entered into a customer agreement. While DBNER may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing associated with new customer accounts, we expect our DBNER to continue to decrease as customers that have used our platform for more than two years become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and the revenue that we use to calculate DBNER. Key Components of Statement of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform. We also earn flat fees from certain products and services. Customers are generally invoiced in arrears on a monthly basis. Many customers have tiered usage pricing which reflects discounted rates as usage increases. Usage charges are determined on a monthly basis based on actual usage within the month and do not impact usage charges within any other month. Our larger customers often enter into contracts that contain minimum billing commitments and reflect discounted pricing associated with such usage levels. 36 We define U.S. revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address outside of the United States. Our revenue has been and will continue to be impacted by new and existing customers usage of our products, international expansion, and the success of our sales efforts. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid for bandwidth, peering, and colocation. Cost of revenue also includes personnel costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our customer support and infrastructure employees, and non-personnel costs, such as amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs and depreciation of our network equipment. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on bandwidth use, in some cases subject to minimum commitments, which may be underutilized. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue, including as a result of depreciation and amortization associated with capital expenditures in future periods. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including the timing and extent of our investments in our operations, our ability to manage our network service providers and cloud infrastructure-related fees, the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs, depreciation of our network equipment, and the extent to which we periodically choose to pass on our cost savings from network optimization efforts to our customers in the form of lower usage rates. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include cloud infrastructure fees for development and testing, amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products including new use cases, improving the efficiency and performance of our network, and increasing the functionality of our existing products. We expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in efforts to enhance the functionality of our platform and develop new products and features to produce next-generation edge computing solutions. Over the long term we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees, salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities, costs related to our Altitude conferences, professional services fees, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, expanding our sales channels, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events. As a result, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars and may increase as a percentage of revenue in the foreseeable future. Over the long term, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our accounting, finance, legal, human resources and administrative support personnel, and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes, depreciation and amortization, an allocation of our general overhead expenses, and bad debt expense. We 37 expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business, our operation as a public company, and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. Our general and administrative expenses include a significant amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Historically, we have not collected such taxes from our customers and have therefore recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue to implement our sales tax collection mechanisms and start collecting these taxes from our customers. We expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the forseeable future. Over the long term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Income Taxes Our income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and state minimum income taxes in the United States. We have a full valuation allowance on our U.S. Federal and state deferred tax assets. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the period presented and as a percentage of our revenue for that period. Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 62,924 $ 45,556 Cost of revenue (1) 27,265 19,718 Gross profit 35,659 25,838 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 14,298 10,176 Sales and marketing (1) 19,168 15,039 General and administrative (1) 14,169 8,700 Total operating expenses 47,635 33,915 Loss from operations (11,976 ) (8,077 ) Interest income 719 416 Interest expense (316 ) (1,235 ) Other income (expenses), net 402 (776 ) Loss before income taxes (11,171 ) (9,672 ) Income taxes 819 55 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (11,990 ) $ (9,727 ) __________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: 38 Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 615 $ 144 Research and development 1,671 432 Sales and marketing 1,483 369 General and administrative 2,560 522 Total $ 6,329 $ 1,467 Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:* Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 43 43 Gross profit 57 57 Operating expenses: Research and development 23 22 Sales and marketing 30 33 General and administrative 23 19 Total operating expenses 76 74 Loss from operations (19 ) (18 ) Interest income 1 1 Interest expense (1 ) (3 ) Other income (expenses), net 1 (2 ) Loss before income taxes (18 ) (22 ) Income taxes 1 Net loss attributable to common stockholders (19 )% (22 )% __________ * Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 62,924 $ 45,556 38 % Revenue was $62.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $45.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $17.4 million , or 38% . We had 1,837 customers and 297 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2020 . We had 1,621 customers and 243 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2019 . This represents an increase of 216 , or 13% , in customers and 54 , or 22% , in enterprise customers from March 31, 2019 . Approximately 94% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was driven by usage on our platform. The remainder of our revenue was generated by our other products and services, including support and professional services. U.S. revenue was $41.0 million and 65% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , and $33.4 million and 73% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This represents an increase of $7.6 million , or 23% . International revenue was $21.9 million and 35% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2020 , and $12.1 million and 27% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2019 . This represents an increase of $9.8 million , or 81% . We had 906 domestic customers and 931 international customers as of March 31, 2020 . We had 897 domestic customers and 724 international 39 customers as of March 31, 2019 . This is an increase in domestic customers of 9 , or 1% , and an increase in international customers of 207 , or 29% , compared to March 31, 2019 . Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 27,265 $ 19,718 38 % For the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 , our cost of revenue consisted of bandwidth, peering, and colocation fees, as well as personnel costs including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for employees who support the build out and operation of the network. Our cost of revenue also includes depreciation expense for network equipment, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, and other network costs. Cost of revenue was $27.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $19.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $7.5 million , or 38% . The increase in cost of revenue is primarily due to an increase in bandwidth costs of $3.0 million, an increase in colocation costs of $1.1 million, an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $0.9 million as we continue to invest in our platform, and an increase in other network costs of $0.8 million to support the increased traffic on our platform. In addition, there was an increase in personnel costs of $1.6 million due to an increase in headcount to support the growth of our business. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Gross profit $ 35,659 $ 25,838 38 % Gross margin 57 % 57 % % Gross profit was $35.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $25.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $9.8 million , or 38% . The increase in gross profit in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 2019 is due to the increase in both revenue from usage of our platform and the corresponding increase in associated costs of revenue. Gross margin was 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , remaining consistent compared to prior year. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 14,298 $ 10,176 41 % Sales and marketing 19,168 15,039 27 % General and administrative 14,169 8,700 63 % Total operating expenses $ 47,635 $ 33,915 40 % Percentage of revenue: Research and development 23 % 22 % (1 )% Sales and marketing 30 % 33 % 3 % General and administrative 23 % 19 % (4 )% Research and development 40 Research and development expenses were $14.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $10.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $4.1 million , or 41% . This is primarily due to an increase of $4.3 million of personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the increase in the fair value of our stock options, the issuance of restricted stock unit awards ("RSUs"), and expense associated with the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP"). Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses were $19.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $15.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $4.1 million , or 27% . This is primarily due to a $2.7 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, sales commissions, benefits, and stock-based compensation, due to an increase in headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the increase in the fair value of our stock options, the issuance of RSUs, and expense associated with the ESPP. The increase is also due to an increase of $0.6 million in travel costs due to an increase in headcount, an increase of $0.4 million in marketing costs, and an increase of $0.3 million in professional fees, driven by the growth of our business year over year. General and administrative General and administrative costs were $14.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $8.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $5.5 million , or 63% . This is primarily due to an increase of $3.3 million of personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense related to the increase in the fair value of our stock options, the issuance of RSUs, and expense associated with the ESPP. The increase is also due to an increase of $0.8 million in external professional services such as legal, accounting, and enterprise systems, an increase of $0.7 million in facilities and information systems costs, and an increase of $0.6 million of business insurance costs associated with becoming a public company. The increase was partially offset by a $0.5 million decrease in bad debt expense. Other Income and Expense Interest Income Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Interest income $ 719 $ 416 73 % Interest income was $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase of $0.3 million , or 73% . This increase is due to interest on proceeds raised from our IPO. Interest Expense Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Interest expense $ 316 $ 1,235 (74 )% Interest expense was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , a decrease of $0.9 million , or 74% . This decrease is primarily due to the decrease in outstanding debt. 41 Other income (expense), net Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 402 $ (776 ) (152 )% Other income, net was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to other expense, net of $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , an increase in other income, net of $1.2 million , or 152% . This increase is primarily due to the conversion of warrant liabilities to additional paid in capital upon the IPO, resulting in no mark-to-market adjustment in the three months ended March 31, 2020 . Liquidity and Capital Resources On May 21, 2019, upon the completion of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $192.5 million , after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, from sales of 12,937,500 shares of our Class A common stock in the IPO. The net proceeds include additional proceeds of $25.1 million , net of underwriters' discounts and commissions, from the exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 1,687,500 shares of our Class A common stock. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, payments received from customers, the net proceeds we received through sales of equity securities, and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have primarily been around funding our operations and capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2020 , we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $116.6 million , and restricted cash totaling $70.1 million . Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of bank deposits and money market funds held at major financial institutions and investment-grade commercial paper and corporate debt securities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents balances, our credit facilities, and the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. Cash Collateralized Revolving Credit Agreement In November 2019, we entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement for an aggregate commitment amount of $70.0 million with a maturity date of November 3, 2022. The amount of borrowings available under the Revolving Credit Agreement at any time are collateralized by our cash. As of March 31, 2020 , $20.3 million had been drawn on the Revolving Credit Agreement. The interest rate associated with each advance under the Revolving Credit Agreement is equal to the sum of LIBOR for the applicable interest period plus 1.50% , which is a per annum rate based on outstanding borrowings. The commitment fee is 0.20% per annum based on the average daily unused amount of the commitment amount. Interest payments on outstanding borrowings are due on the last day of each interest period and payments for the commitment fee are due at the end of each calendar quarter. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Cash used in operating activities $ (7,186 ) $ (10,083 ) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 9,742 (3,594 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 3,766 (1,923 ) 42 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $12.0 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $4.7 million of depreciation and amortization, and $6.3 million of stock-based compensation expense. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, there was an increase in accounts receivable of $6.0 million , primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, an increase in other long-term assets of $1.4 million due to higher commissions being capitalized subsequent to the adoption of ASC 606, and an increase of $1.1 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to pre-payments for SaaS licenses. This was partially offset by an increase of $2.1 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities due to timing of payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $9.7 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $3.7 million of depreciation and amortization, $1.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, an increase in our warrant liability of $0.7 million , and an increase in our bad debt expense of $0.6 million . With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased $0.6 million . This was partially offset by an increase in accounts receivable increased of $4.6 million and an increase of $2.8 million in prepaid expenses and other assets, which primarily resulted from the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, pre-payments for travel, SaaS licenses, and commissions. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash provided by investing activities was $9.7 million , primarily consisting of $21.4 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities. This was offset by $10.2 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network, and $1.4 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in investing activities was $3.6 million , primarily consisting of $4.8 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network. We also purchased an additional $20.1 million of marketable securities and sold $21.3 million of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2020 , cash provided by financing activities was $3.8 million , primarily consisting of $3.2 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees and $2.1 million in proceeds from the ESPP. This was partially offset by $1.5 million of capital lease payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , cash used in financing activities was $1.9 million , primarily consisting of $2.5 million of debt payments, partially offset by $0.9 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases, purchase obligations for contracts with our cloud infrastructure provider, network service providers, and other vendors, and outstanding debt. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 , except for those described under Note 7 and Note 9 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses, and related disclosures. Actual results and outcomes could differ significantly from our estimates, judgments, and assumptions. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. 43 There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Policies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note 1 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. To the extent that we lose our emerging growth company status and no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we will no longer be permitted to use these reporting exemptions. 44