ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. As used herein, "Fastly," "we," "our," "the Company" and similar terms include Fastly, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview Developers are reinventing the way we live, work, and play online. Yet they repeatedly encounter innovation barriers when delivering modern digital experiences. Expectations for digital experiences are at an all-time high; they must be fast, secure, and highly personalized. If they arent reliable, end-users simply take their business elsewhere. The challenge today is enabling developers to deliver a modern digital experience while simultaneously providing scale, security, and performance. We built our edge cloud platform to solve this problem. The edge cloud is an emerging category of Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS") that enables developers to build, secure, and deliver digital experiences, at the edge of the internet. This service represents the convergence of the Content Delivery Network ("CDN") with functionality that has been traditionally delivered by hardware-centric appliances such as Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Web Application Firewalls ("WAF"), Bot Detection, Distributed Denial of Service ("DDoS") and observability solutions. It also includes the emergence of a new, but growing, edge computing market which aims to move compute power and logic as close to the end-user as possible. The edge cloud uses the emerging cloud computing, serverless paradigm in which the cloud provider runs the server and dynamically manages the allocation of machine resources while offering flexibility and control to developers. When milliseconds matter, processing at the edge is an ideal way to handle highly dynamic and time-sensitive data. This has led to its acceptance and adoption by organizations who monetize or grow their user base with every millisecond saved. Organizations that want their websites to load faster for every user can benefit from processing at the edge. The edge cloud complements data center, central cloud, and hybrid solutions. Our mission is to fuel the next modern digital experience by providing developers with a programmable and reliable edge cloud platform that they adopt as their own. Organizations must keep up with complex and ever-evolving end-user requirements. We help them surpass their end-users expectations by powering fast, secure, and scalable digital experiences. We built a powerful edge cloud platform, designed from the ground up to be programmable and support agile software development. We believe that our platform gives our customers a significant competitive advantage, whether they were born into the digital age or are just embarking on their digital transformation journey. Our platform consists of four key components: a programmable edge, a software-defined modern network, safety in depth, and a philosophy of customer empowerment. Programmable edge provides developers with real-time visibility and granular control, where they can write and deploy code in a serverless environment and to push application logic to the edge. It provides tooling and templates to deploy some of the most commonly used workflows and leverages modern application delivery processes, thus freeing developers to innovate without constraints. Our software-defined modern network is built for the software-defined future. Our network is powerful, efficient, and flexible, designed to enable us to rapidly scale to meet the needs of the most demanding customers and never be a barrier to their growth. Our 198 terabit software-centric network is located across 75 markets as of March 31, 2022. We define markets as unique metropolitan areas where we have one or more Points of Presence ("POPs"). Our safety in depth approach integrates security into multiple layers of development: architecture, engineering, and operations. That's why we invest in building security into the fabric of our platform, alongside performance. We provide developers and security operations teams with a fast, safe environment to create, build, and run modern applications. Our platform provides developers and security operations teams with solutions that foster innovation without impacting performance. Finally, being developers ourselves, we empower customers to build great things while supporting their efforts through frictionless tools and a deeply technical support team that facilitates ongoing collaboration. 30 We serve both established enterprises, mid-market companies and technology-savvy organizations. Our customers represent a diverse set of organizations across many industries with one thing in common: they are competing by using the power of software to build differentiation at the edge. With our edge cloud platform, our customers are disrupting existing industries and creating new ones. For example, several of our customers have reinvented digital publishing by connecting readers through subscription models to indispensable content, helping people understand the world through deeply reported independent journalism. Our customers software applications uses our edge cloud platform to deliver consistently excellent online shopping experiences, fast and more secure financial transactions, and broadcast quality live streaming on any device. The range of applications that developers build with our edge cloud platform continues to expand rapidly. So where do we go from here? Our vision is to create a trustworthy internet, where good thrives. We want all developers to have the ability to deliver the next transformative digital experience on a global scale. And because big ideas often start small, we love it when developers experiment and iterate on our edge cloud platform, coming up with exciting new ways to solve todays complex problems. We generate substantially all of our revenue from charging our customers based on their usage of our platform. Initially, customers typically choose to become platform customers, for which we charge fees based on their committed or actual use of our platform, as measured in gigabytes and requests. Many of our customers generate billings in excess of their minimum commitment. We also generate revenue from additional products as well as professional and other services, such as implementation. We charge a flat one-time or recurring fee for these additional products and services. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we also began offering subscriptions to access a unified security web application and application programming interface at a fixed rate. We focus our direct selling efforts on medium to large organizations as well as smaller companies that are exhibiting significant growth. We engage with and support these customers with our field sales representatives, account managers, and technical account managers who focus on customer satisfaction and drive expansion of their usage of our platform and products. These teams work with technical and business leaders to help our customers end-users receive the best possible digital experience, while also lowering our customers total cost of ownership. These direct selling efforts are reflected by our 457 enterprise customers, as of March 31, 2022 that generated 89% of our total revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022, up from 395 enterprise customers which also generated 89% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2021. These enterprise customers are defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the previous 12-month period. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER"), Net Retention Rate ("NRR") and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate ("LTM NRR"), metrics measure the revenue growth from existing customers attributable to increased usage of our platform and features, and purchase of additional products and services. For additional details on our key metrics, refer to "Key Business metrics" section. Customers that have negotiated contracts with us generate a substantial majority of our revenue. These customers typically purchase one or more products, for which we charge a monthly recurring or one-time fee depending on the products selected. Some of these customers also choose to purchase various levels of account management and enhanced customer support for a monthly fee. Typically, the term of these contracts is 12 months and includes a minimum monthly billing commitment in exchange for more favorable pricing terms. Many of these customers generate billings in excess of their minimum commitment. In addition, customers can sign up online by providing their credit card information and agreeing to a minimum monthly fee. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we started offering subscriptions to access a unified security web application and application programming interface at a fixed rate. The majority of our revenue is usage based and changes in usage by our largest customers can create volatility in our revenue. The length of sales cycles, from initial evaluation to payment, can range from several months to well over a year and can vary substantially from customer to customer. Similarly, the onboarding and ramping process with new as well as existing enterprise customers with new business can take several months and can be subject to delays for unanticipated reasons. For example, we experienced delays in the ramping of new traffic due to travel and data center restrictions in South Asia that delayed network build outs and the timing of customer code freezes, each affected in part by COVID-19-related issues. The timing of new revenue from our sales efforts and changes in usage by our largest customers can make revenue difficult to predict. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our revenue was $102.4 million and $84.9 million, respectively, an increase of 21%. Our 10 largest customers generated an aggregate of 33% and 35% of our revenues in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we incurred a net loss of $64.3 million and $50.7 million, respectively. 31 Factors Affecting Our Performance Winning New Customers We are focused on continuing to attract new customers. Our customer base includes both large, established enterprises that are undergoing digital transformation and emerging companies spanning a wide array of industries and verticals. In both instances, developers within these companies often use and advocate the adoption of our platform by their companies. We also benefit from word-of-mouth promotion across the broader developer community. We will continue to invest in our developer outreach, leveraging it as a cost-efficient approach to attracting new customers. With our expanded security portfolio from the acquisition of Signal Sciences Corporation ("Signal Sciences"), other security products, and our edge computing capabilities, we are increasing our focus on brand awareness, public relations and analyst relations in efforts to help generate awareness and demand for these offerings. We will continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs, including various online marketing activities as well as targeted account-based advertising. We are continuing to bring new innovations to our edge cloud platform and software-defined modern network architecture, and are seeing an increased interest from customers in our programmable edge computing solution. This will require us to dedicate significant resources to further develop the market for our platform and differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. We will also need to expand, retain, and motivate our sales and marketing personnel in order to target our sales efforts at larger enterprises and senior management of these potential customers. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws on data localization and cross-border data transfers, and the evolving enforcement and interpretation of such laws has created uncertainty regarding data stored abroad and transferred across borders, which could impact customer growth and acquisition for customers and potential customers conducting business in Europe and elsewhere outside of the United States. We have encountered and may continue to encounter heightened concerns relating to privacy, data protection, data localization and cross border data transfers, and information security from customers and potential customers conducting business outside of the United States. Specifically, we have received higher number of requests relating to EU privacy requirements, impacting the sales negotiation process, and we also had potential customers decline to do business with us due to privacy concerns related to updated interpretations of the laws applicable to transfers of personal information to the United States. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." Expanding within Our Existing Customer Base We emphasize retaining our customers and expanding their usage of our platform and adoption of our other products. Customers often begin with smaller deployments of one of our products and then expand their usage over time. Our platform includes a variety of offerings, such as load balancing, shielding, web security, and WAF. As our customers mature, we assist them in expanding their use of our platform, including the use of additional offerings beyond edge cloud delivery or security. As enterprises grow and experience increased traffic, their needs evolve, leading them to find additional use cases for our platform and expand their usage accordingly. In addition, given that customer acquisition costs are incurred largely for acquiring and initial onboarding, we may gain operating leverage to the extent that existing customers expand their use of our platform and products. Our ability to retain customers and expand their usage could be impaired for a variety of reasons, including a customer moving to another provider or reducing usage within the term of their contract to their minimum usage commitment. Even if our customers expand their usage of our platform, we cannot guarantee that they will maintain those usage levels for any meaningful period of time or that they will renew their commitments. The data localization and cross-border data transfer issues described above also impact current customers' usage of our products and services. In addition, we cannot be certain what actions the United States or another country's government may take with respect to certain of our customers that may adversely affect our ability to do business with our customers that operate in China, target China as a market or that have strong business ties to China. For example, our largest customer during the year ended December 31, 2020 had strong business ties to China and significantly reduced their usage of our platform. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." International Customer Growth We intend to continue expanding our efforts to attract customers outside of the United States by augmenting our sales teams and strategically increasing our presence in the number of markets in select international locations. As of March 31, 2022, our edge network spans across 54 markets and 33 countries that are outside of the United States. As of December 31, 2021, our edge network spans across 51 markets and 31 countries that are outside of the United States. 32 Our international expansion, including our global sales efforts, continues to add increased complexity and cost to our business. This requires us to expand our sales and marketing capabilities outside of the United States, as well as increase the number of markets we have a presence in around the world to support our customers. Managing the administrative aspects of a global organization places a strain on our business and culture. We are closely monitoring the unfolding events of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its global impacts. While the conflict is still evolving and the outcome remains highly uncertain, we do not believe the Russia-Ukraine conflict will have a material impact on our business and results of operation. However, if the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues or worsens, leading to greater global economic disruptions and uncertainty, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. Our customers in Russia represented an immaterial portion of our net assets and total consolidated revenue both as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Investing in Sales and Marketing Our customers have been pivotal in driving brand awareness and broadening our reach. While we continue to leverage the self-service approach to drive adoption by developers, we will continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts, with an increased focus on sales to enterprises globally. Utilizing our direct sales force, we have multiple selling points within organizations to acquire new customers and increase usage from our existing customers. We will continue to increase our discretionary marketing spend, including account based and brand spend, to drive the effectiveness of our sales teams. As a result, we expect our total operating expenses to increase as we continue to expand. Our investments in sales and marketing teams are intended to help accelerate our sales, onboarding, and ramp cycles. These efforts will require us to continue to invest in sales and marketing resources. Furthermore, we believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. Continued Investment in Our Platform and Network Infrastructure We must continue to invest in our platform and network infrastructure to maintain our position in the market. We expect our revenue growth to be dependent on an expanding customer base and continued adoption of our edge cloud delivery, security, and other products and services. In anticipation of winning new customers and staying ahead of our customers needs, we plan to continue to invest in order to expand the scale and capacity of our software-defined modern network. This could result in increased network service provider fees, which could adversely affect our gross margins if we are unable to offset these costs with revenue from new customers and increase revenue from existing customers. Our customers require constant innovation within their own organizations and expect the same from us. Therefore, we will continue to invest in resources to enhance our development capabilities and introduce new products and features on our platform. We believe that investment in research and development will contribute to our long-term growth but may also negatively impact our short-term profitability. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 39% and 34%, respectively. We may also seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, on October 1, 2020, we acquired Signal Sciences, a security software company that provides protection from web, API, and mobile security threats. Developers use our platform to build custom applications and require a state-of-the-art infrastructure to test and run these applications. We will continue to invest in our network infrastructure by strategically increasing our POPs. We also anticipate making investments in upgrading our technology and hardware to continue providing our customers a fast and secure platform. Our cash additions for investments in property and equipment for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were $6.2 million and $9.1 million, respectively, representing 6% and 11% of our revenue in such periods. We expect our investment in property and equipment to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Our gross margins and operating results are impacted by these investments. As of March 31, 2022, our network is located in 75 markets across 34 countries. In the event that there are errors in software, failures of hardware, damages to a facility or misconfigurations of any of our serviceswhether caused by our own error, security breaches, third-party error, or natural disasterswe could experience lengthy interruptions in our platform as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly when customers experience cyber-attacks. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become 33 unavailable for a variety of reasons, including service outages, payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. Uncertainty of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. As certain of our customers or potential customers experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue resulting from the impact of COVID-19, they have and may continue to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or payment extensions, or seek renegotiation of their contracts. Usage of our platform fluctuated following the implementation of preventative measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of COVID-19, and we cannot predict how usage levels will continue to be impacted given that the long term impacts of the pandemic remain uncertain. As a result, it has been difficult to accurately forecast our revenues or financial results, and our results of operations could be materially below our forecasts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, or cause our stock price to decline. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, many state, local, and foreign governments have put in place restrictions to control the spread of the disease. Such restrictions, or the perception that further restrictions could occur, have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellation or postponement of events, among other effects that impacted productivity and disrupted our operations and those of our partners and customers. In addition, our suppliers have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has reduced the availability or resulted in delays, and may continue to reduce the availability or result in delays, of parts and components to us. In addition, travel restrictions have affected, and may continue to affect, our ability to expand, maintain, and conduct audits of our data centers and facilities, requiring us to use alternative procedures to the standard on-site visit. Any inability to complete these audits could affect our compliance certifications and cause customers to reduce or cease using our services. In addition, many of our employees and their families have been negatively affected, mentally or physically, by the COVID-19 pandemic. Decreased productivity of our employees could adversely affect our results due to slow-downs in our sales cycles and our customer ramping and onboarding process, delays in recruiting and onboarding efforts, delays in our entry into customer contracts, delays in addressing performance issues, delays in product development, delays and inefficiencies among various operational aspects of our business, including our financial organization, or other decreases in productivity that could seriously harm our business. Furthermore, we may decide to postpone or cancel planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business as a result of the spread of COVID-19, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, and may reduce our ability to access additional capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. The ultimate duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately forecasted at this time. These developments include the severity and transmission rate of the disease, the emergence of new variants, the actions of governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and vaccines, the impact on economic activity and the impact of these and other factors. We do not yet know how businesses, customers, or our partners will operate in a post COVID-19 environment. There may be additional costs or impacts to our business and operations, including as our employees begin to return to our offices and resume activities, such as travel, and events. In addition, there is no guarantee that a future outbreak of this or any other widespread epidemic will not occur, or that the global economy will recover, either of which could harm our business. For additional details, refer to the section titled "Risk Factors." 34 Key Business Metrics We use the following key metrics presented in the table below, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of these key metrics below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. As of March 31, 2022 2021 Number of customers (as of end of period) 2,880 2,458 Number of enterprise customers (as of end of period) 457 395 Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER") (trailing 12 months) 117.9 % 141.0 % NRR (as of end of period) 114.0 % 109.8 % LTM NRR (trailing 12 months) 115.0 % 135.0 % Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers is an important indicator of the adoption of our platform. Our definition of a customer consists of identifiable operating entities with which our have a billing relationship in good standing, from which we recognized revenue during the period. An identifiable operating entity is defined as a company, a government entity, or a distinct business unit of a larger company that has a relationship with us through direct sale or through one of our reseller partners where charges are identified on an end-customer basis. In cases where charges are identified through a reseller partner rather than on an end-customer basis, we record a single customer record for the reseller partner. Our customer groupings may be impacted by changes to our customers business, including any impact from merger and acquisition activities, internal business reorganizations leading to operational and decision making changes, and corporate structure changes such as subsidiary consolidation and reorganization that may arise in the future. In addition to our paying customers, we also have trial, developer, nonprofit and open source programs, and other non-paying accounts that are excluded from our customer count metric. As of March 31, 2022 and 2021, we had 2,880 and 2,458 customers, respectively. Number of Enterprise Customers Historically our revenue has been driven primarily by a subset of customers who have leveraged our platform substantially from a usage standpoint. These enterprise customers are defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the previous 12-month period. As of March 31, 2022, we had 457 enterprise customers which generated 89% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022. As of March 31, 2021, we had 395 enterprise customers which generated 89% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2021. We believe that the recruitment and cultivation of enterprise customers is critical to our long-term success. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER") Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is dependent upon our ability to increase the number of new customers and usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and other products and services by our existing customers. We track our growth, in part, by measuring DBNER. Our DBNER increases when customers increase their usage of our platform or purchase additional products, and declines when they reduce their usage, benefit from lower pricing on their existing usage, or curtail their purchases of additional products. We believe that DBNER is a key metric in measuring the long-term value of our customer relationships and our ability to grow our revenue through increased usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and purchase of additional products and services by our existing customers. However, our calculation of DBNER indicates only expansion among continuing customers and does not indicate any decrease in revenue attributable to former customers, which may differ from similar metrics of other companies. We calculate DBNER by dividing the revenue for a given period from customers who remained customers as of the last day of the given period ("current period") by the revenue from the same customers for the same period measured one year prior ("base period"). The revenue included in the current period excludes revenue from (i) customers that churned after the end of the base period and (ii) new customers that entered into a customer agreement after the end of the base period. For example, to calculate our DBNER for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022, we divide (i) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022, from customers that entered into a customer agreement on or before March 31, 2021, and that remained customers as of March 31, 2022, by (ii) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2021, from the same set of customers. 35 For the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 our DBNER was 117.9% and 141.0%, respectively. We believe that an annual cohort analysis of our customers demonstrates customer expansion. Customer accounts acquired in 2019, 2020, and 2021 are referred to as the 2019 Cohort, 2020 Cohort, and 2021 Cohort, respectively. Once a customer begins to generate revenue for us, they tend to increase their usage of our platform, in particular in their second year. For example, the DBNER for the 2019 Cohort was 580.8% for the year ended December 31, 2020. However, the DBNER for the 2019 Cohort was only 150.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021, which generally represents their third year as a customer. Depending on when they entered into a customer agreement. DBNER may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing associated with new customer accounts. We expects our DBNER for individual cohorts to decrease once customers in that cohort have used our platform for more than two years and become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and the revenue that we use to calculate DBNER. Net Retention Rate ("NRR") and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate ("LTM NRR") Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is also dependent upon our ability to retain our existing customers. In addition to measuring expansion using DBNER, NRR and LTM NRR also allow us to track customer retention which demonstrates the stickiness of our edge cloud platform. Our NRR measures the net change in monthly revenue from existing customers in the last month of the period (the current" period month) compared to the last month of the same period one year prior (the prior" period month) and includes revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn, revenue expansion due to billing increases, but excludes revenue from new customers. We calculate Net Retention Rate by dividing the revenue from the current period month by the revenue in the prior period month. For the month ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 our NRR was 114.0% and 109.8%, respectively. Our LTM NRR removes some of the volatility that is inherent in a usage-based business model from the measurement of the NRR metric. We calculate LTM NRR by dividing the total customer revenue for the prior twelve-month period (prior 12-month period) ending at the beginning of the last twelve-month period (LTM period) minus revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn, plus revenue expansion due to billing increases during the LTM period from the same customers by the total prior 12-month period revenue. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 our LTM NRR was 115.0% and 135.0%, respectively. Key Components of Statement of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform. We also earn fixed-rate recurring revenue from security and other products and services. Our usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform are generally billed in arrears. Our security products are primarily annual subscriptions that are billed in advance. Many customers have tiered usage pricing which reflects discounted rates as usage increases. For most contracts, usage charges are determined on a monthly basis based on actual usage within the month and do not impact usage charges within any other month. Our larger customers often enter into contracts that contain minimum billing commitments and reflect discounted pricing associated with such usage levels. We define United States revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid for bandwidth, peering, and colocation. Cost of revenue also includes personnel costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our customer support and infrastructure employees, and non-personnel costs, such as amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, depreciation of our network equipment and amortization of our intangible assets. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on bandwidth use, in some cases subject to minimum commitments, which may be underutilized. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including utilization of our network, the timing of our investments in the expansion of our network, which can increase depreciation and colocation costs in advance of expected demand, our ability to manage our network service providers and cloud infrastructure-related fees, the timing of 36 amortization of capitalized software development costs, changes in personnel costs to provide customer support and operate the network, and customer pricing. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include cloud infrastructure fees for development and testing, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products including new use cases, improving the efficiency and performance of our network, and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Over the long term we expects our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees, salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities, bandwidth and co-location costs for free users, costs related to our customer conferences, including our Altitude conference, professional services fees, amortization of our intangible assets, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our platform and products, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, expanding our sales channels, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events. Over the long term, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our accounting, finance, legal, trust, human resources and administrative support personnel, and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes, an allocation of our general overhead expenses, credit losses and acquisition-related costs. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business, our operations as a public company, and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. Our general and administrative expenses include a significant amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject to based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Historically, we have not collected such taxes from our customers and have therefore recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue to implement our sales tax collection mechanisms and start collecting these taxes from our customers. Overall, we expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Over the long term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Income Taxes Our income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where our conduct business and state minimum income taxes in the United States. We have a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. 37 Other Income and Expense, net Our interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Our interest expense consists primarily of contractual interest expense and amortization of discount and debt issuance costs associated with our debt obligations. Our other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the period presented: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 102,382 $ 84,852 Cost of revenue (1) 53,915 37,494 Gross profit 48,467 47,358 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 40,437 28,988 Sales and marketing (1) 41,480 34,872 General and administrative (1) 29,554 33,461 Total operating expenses 111,471 97,321 Loss from operations (63,004) (49,963) Interest income 681 174 Interest expense (1,622) (661) Other expense (279) (64) Loss before income taxes (64,224) (50,514) Income tax expense 40 169 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (64,264) $ (50,683) __________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 2,946 $ 1,186 Research and development 18,589 7,958 Sales and marketing 10,094 5,008 General and administrative 8,393 16,686 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 40,022 $ 30,838 38 The following tables set forth our results of operations for the period presented as a percentage of our revenue: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:* Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 53 44 Gross profit 47 56 Operating expenses: Research and development 39 34 Sales and marketing 41 41 General and administrative 29 39 Total operating expenses 109 115 Loss from operations (62) (59) Interest income 1 Interest expense (2) (1) Other expense Loss before income taxes (63) (60) Income tax expense Net loss attributable to common stockholders (63) % (60) % __________ * Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 102,382 $ 84,852 21 % Revenue was $102.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $84.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $17.5 million, or 21%. Revenue growth was driven by the further adoption of our modern edge platform and products as well as a $4.6 million increase in revenue related to products acquired from the acquisition of Signal Sciences. We had 2,880 customers and 457 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2022, compared to 2,458 customers and 395 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2021. This represents an increase of 422, or 17%, in customers and 62, or 16%, in enterprise customers from March 31, 2021. Approximately 94% of our revenue in both the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was driven by usage on our platform. Revenue was primarily from existing customers, as revenue from new customers contributed less than 10% of our revenue. The proportion of the revenue contribution between new and existing customers is consistent with prior periods and typical customer behavior as customers tend to contribute more revenue over time as their use of the platform increases. The remainder of our revenue was generated by our other products and services, including support and professional services. U.S. revenue was $75.6 million or 74% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $62.7 million, or 74%, of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This represents an increase of $12.9 million, or 21%. International revenue was $26.8 million or 26% of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $22.1 million, or 26%, of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This represents an increase of $4.7 million, or 21%. 39 We had 2,168 domestic customers and 712 international customers as of March 31, 2022, and 1,796 domestic customers and 662 international customers as of March 31, 2021. There was an increase in domestic customers of 368, or 20%, and an increase in international customers of 54, or 8%, compared to March 31, 2021. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 53,915 $ 37,494 44 % Cost of revenue was $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $37.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $16.4 million, or 44%. The increase in cost of revenue is a result of an increase in bandwidth costs of $6.5 million, colocation costs of $3.4 million, hosted data service and other SaaS costs of $1.1 million and $0.8 million in other network costs to support the increased traffic on our platform. Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $3.3 million as a result of increased investments in our platform. There was also a $2.8 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount to support the growth of our business and equity awards granted to employees. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Gross profit $ 48,467 $ 47,358 2 % Gross margin 47 % 56 % (9) % Gross profit was $48.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $47.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 . Gross margin was 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to 56% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 , a decrease of 9%. The decrease in gross margin is driven by increases in bandwidth, peering, and colocation costs as part of our continued investment in infrastructure and capacity to build out our platform to support future customer traffic. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 40,437 $ 28,988 39 % Sales and marketing 41,480 34,872 19 % General and administrative 29,554 33,461 (12) % Total operating expenses $ 111,471 $ 97,321 15 % Percentage of revenue: Research and development 39 % 34 % 5 % Sales and marketing 41 % 41 % % General and administrative 29 % 39 % (10) % 40 Research and development Research and development expenses were $40.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $29.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $11.4 million, or 39%. This is primarily due to an increase of $14.5 million of personnel-related costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount and equity awards granted to employees. Included in the stock-based compensation expense, is $1.5 million of expenses associated with our 2022 Bonus Program and $5.6 million of modification expense associated with an employee's change in employment status. There was also an increase of $1.2 million in hosted data service and other SaaS costs as we continue to develop new products and features for our next-generation edge computing solutions. This increase was partially offset by a $4.0 million increase in capitalization of costs related to the development of internal-use software due to higher volume of projects and employee costs. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses were $41.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $34.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $6.6 million, or 19%. This is primarily due to a $6.2 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, sales commissions, benefits, and stock-based compensation, due to an increase in headcount and equity awards granted to employees. There was also an increase of $0.8 million related to employee time and expenses as work-related travel has started to pick up with the lift of prior travel-related restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. This increase was partially offset by a $1.5 million decrease in marketing expenses due to fewer marketing campaigns in the first quarter of 2022. General and administrative General and a dministrative costs were $29.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $33.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $3.9 million, or 12%. The decrease is due net lower personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation of $7.1 million attributed to the general and administrative function. Included in the stock-based compensation expense, is $0.8 million of expenses associated with our 2022 Bonus Program. The decrease is offset by an increase of $1.2 million in professional services such as legal, accounting and enterprise systems, $0.5 million in SaaS subscription costs, $0.6 million increase in business taxes and $0.5 million of insurance costs to support the growth of our business as a public company. Other Income and Expense, net Interest Income Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Interest income $ 681 $ 174 291 % Interest income was $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.5 million, or 291%. This increase is due to an increase in our investment portfolio as well as a recent increase in interest rates, impacting our marketable securities portfolio. Interest Expense Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Interest expense $ 1,622 $ 661 145 % Interest expense was $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.9 million, or 145%. This increase is primarily due a full quarter's amortization of debt issuance costs related to the convertible debt and revolving credit facility that were entered into in the middle of the first quarter of 2021. 41 Other income (expense), net Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (279) $ (64) 336 % Other expense, net was $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to other expense, net of $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease in other expense, net of $0.2 million, or 336%. The change is mainly driven by our foreign currency transaction losses between the periods. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and restricted cash totaling $1.0 billion. Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of bank deposits, money market funds, investment-grade commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, U.S. treasury securities, municipal securities, foreign government and supranational securities and asset-backed securities held at major financial institutions. As of March 31, 2022, our marketable securities balance includes $394.5 million of marketable securities that were classified as non-current. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, payments received from customers, the net proceeds we received through sales of equity and debt securities, and borrowings under our convertible note and credit facility. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have primarily been around funding our operations and capital expenditures. We also enter into finance leases for infrastructure assets in colocation facilities that we directly lease and operate. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents balances, our credit facilities, net of the cash outflows used in our operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. We have generated losses from operations in the past and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments and strategic initiatives we intend to make to grow our business. Senior Secured Credit Facilities Agreement On February 16, 2021, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facilities Agreement ("Credit Agreement") with Silicon Valley Bank for an aggregate commitment amount of $100.0 million, with a maturity date of February 16, 2024. Convertible Senior Notes In March 2021, we issued approximately $948.8 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior unsecured notes due in 2026 (the "Notes") in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act. The Notes will mature on March 15, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (13,190) $ (10,869) Cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 87,683 $ (35,399) Cash provided by financing activities $ 5,452 $ 932,263 42 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $13.2 million, consisting primarily of our net loss of $64.3 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $65.7 million, and net cash flows used in operating assets and liabilities of $14.7 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an increase in accounts receivable of $9.2 million primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from our customers, an increase in other long-term assets of $2.5 million due to an increase in commissions being capitalized, and an increase of $2.1 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets due to pre-payments for SaaS licenses. We also had $6.6 million of operating lease payments. This was offset by a net increase of $5.7 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities due to the timing of payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $10.9 million, consisting primarily of our net loss of $50.7 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $50.1 million, and net cash flows used in operating assets and liabilities of $10.2 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an increase in accounts receivable of $1.7 million, primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from our customers, an increase in other long-term assets of $3.0 million due to commissions paid out in the period, and an increase of $1.7 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets due to pre-payments for SaaS licenses. This was offset by a net decrease of $2.4 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities due to timing of payments and increases in accrued commissions. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by investing activities was $87.7 million, primarily consisting of $242.8 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities, offset by $148.2 million of purchases of marketable securities, $3.8 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software, $2.4 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network and $0.8 million related to business acquisitions. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $35.4 million, primarily consisting of $64.3 million of purchases of marketable securities, $8.1 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network and $1.0 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software. This was partially offset by $38.0 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $5.5 million, primarily consisting of $10.7 million in proceeds from the early sale of restricted shares, $3.0 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees, and $2.4 million in proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP"). This increase was partially offset by $7.2 million of finance lease payments and $3.5 million in repayments to employees for restricted share awards. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $932.3 million, primarily consisting of $930.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of the Notes, net of issuance costs, $1.4 million payments of other debt issuance costs, $2.7 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees, and $3.1 million in proceeds from the ESPP. This was partially offset by $3.0 million of capital lease payments. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating and finance leases, purchase obligations for capital expenditures, purchase obligations for contracts with our cloud infrastructure provider, network service providers, and other vendors, and outstanding debt. Apart from an increase in purchase obligations of $18.5 million for capital expenditures during the three months ended March 31, 2022, there have not been any other material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, except for those described under Note 6, Note 8, and Note 9 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses, and related disclosures. Actual results and outcomes could differ significantly from our estimates, judgments, and assumptions. To the extent that there are material differences between these 43 estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Policies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note 2 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 44