Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business Metrics" for further discussion of DBNER, NRR and LTM NRR. The financial results of Signal Sciences have been consolidated into our financial results and key metrics since October 1, 2020, the date of acquisition. Our DBNER was 120.9% and 143.6% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Our NRR was 106.6% and 116.3% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. Our LTM NRR was 117.6% and 137.4% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, respectively. We believe the LTM NRR is supplemental as it removes some of the volatility inherent in a usage-based business model from the measurement of the NRR metric. For the years ended December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, our revenue was $354.3 million, $290.9 million, and $200.5 million, respectively. We incurred a net loss of $222.7 million, $95.9 million and $51.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, respectively. Our Solution: Fastly's Edge Cloud Platform We have built a powerful, serverless edge cloud platform, designed from the ground up to be programmable and support agile software development. We process, serve, and secure our customers applications as close to their end-users as possible, at the edge of the internet for enhanced performance and protection. We believe our platform gives our customers a significant competitive advantage whether they are just embarking on their digital transformation journey or natively born into the new digital age. 8 Our edge cloud platform is based on several core tenets: Developers must be empowered to innovate; Platforms must innovate ahead of market demands while still being reliable, scalable, and secure; Security should be developer-friendly, easy-to-use and available wherever you need it; and Vendors must provide exceptional flexibility and support. With this in mind, our platform consists of four key components: a programmable edge, a software-defined modern network, safety in depth, and a philosophy of customer empowerment. Programmable Edge Our programmable edge sits in an extremely privileged position, between our customers applications and their end-users, placing our services closer to those users. It is composed of our highly configurable cache layer, our Varnish-based development environment, and our new serverless compute products. It is designed to create a space for developers to innovate at their own pace, by providing: Full programmability . Our powerful platform allows developers to write and deploy their custom code to push application logic to the edge. We believe that logic like API routing and responses, A/B testing, URL redirects, paywall authentication, and location/language customization can all be delivered faster and more efficiently at the edge; Reusable modules . Our platform includes reusable modules based on commonly deployed custom code examples. We package and add these reusable modules to our platform, which enables developers to accelerate customer onboarding and reduces implementation difficulty; 9 Real-time visibility and control . Our edge cloud platform is designed with instant visibility and control as a core tenet. We stream log data from our network edge in real time so developers can instantly see the impact of new code in production, troubleshoot issues as they occur and rapidly identify suspicious traffic. We also empower developers with distributed, real-time control of their application code and configurations; Agile development . Developers can build Fastly into their technology stack to power continuous integration and continuous deployment (CI/CD) efforts. They can use our edge cloud platform to iterate and innovate rapidly by deploying their new code to production multiple times a day as they test new features, fix bugs, or enhance existing offerings. Fastly also supports DevSecOps efforts, allowing developers to introduce automated security controls early in the application development cycle, thus minimizing vulnerabilities and eliminating costly rework further down the line; and Serverless compute environment. With our serverless compute environment, developers can build even more complex use cases on our edge cloud platform, without having to worry about the underlying infrastructure. Built on WebAssembly, a new type of code that can be run in modern web browsers and extends the web platform to support compiled languages like C, C++, Rust Go and more, rather than existing technologies like re-usable containers, it empowers developers to write code in their preferred language and run it anywhere at near-native speeds. Edge Use Cases Below are some examples of use cases our customers have solved for using Fastlys programmable edge: API acceleration. Accelerate and secure critical application programming interface (API") responses at the edge for delightful application experiences, such as instant hotel lookup based on location and real-time inventory updates between retail stores and their online storefronts; Internet of things ("IoT"). Process and secure data from connected devices at the edge for instant results for time-sensitive applications; Cloud migration. Seamlessly migrate from data center to cloud, hybrid or multi-cloud environments, enabling customers to take advantage of the functionality and cost savings of one or more cloud providers; and Enabling blockchain. Cache and accelerate individual transactions on the blockchain in real time. Software-Defined Modern Network Our edge cloud platform is designed to take advantage of the modern internet. Our philosophy has been to differentiate through software by building one powerful software-centric network composed of unique and proprietary components. Our approach is designed to give us the flexibility to innovate and build so we will never be a barrier to our customers growth, and consists of the following key elements: Software-centric approach at global scale . From the start, we realized that single purpose hardware-based solutions that rely on custom-designed chips are inflexible. Custom hardware, like routers, load balancers, and security appliances, do not have the flexibility to support the dynamic needs of the modern internet. We started with open source software like Varnish and Linux, then rewrote it to support the use cases of a multi-tenant, high-performance edge cloud. We created our own proprietary software-defined networking stack with built-in routing and load balancing, a storage system for optimal storage usage and performance, a massive data pipeline to send customer logs, a cache invalidation system that purges content around the world in an average of 150 milliseconds or less, and a proprietary control panel that allows our customers to update their edge application logic and configurations in seconds around the world. We architected the software to run on custom-designed servers built upon commodity components and network hardware so that we can control every aspect of the network, from request to response and drive as much utilization and scale as possible. Our software-centric approach is designed for better network efficiency and greater flexibility to scale as we add more services; 10 POP design. We built Fastly for the internet of todaymeaning fewer POPs, each with massive scale and located at the key interconnection points of the internet. Our POPs are connected directly to the core internet, each connecting directly to core Internet Service Provider ("ISPs") and 100 Internet Exchange Points as of December 31, 2021 to offer high performance in long-tail content caching. We run fewer clusters of more powerful servers that provide superior performance for customers who expect updates to be pushed out to their global end-users nearly instantaneously. Legacy Content Delivery Networks (Legacy CDNs) do not offer this benefit, as it is extremely difficult to update hundreds of thousands of servers around the world; Server efficiency. We have a highly efficient global server footprint because we combine advanced server and network hardware with our world class software at each of our POPs. Our servers are optimized to handle the complex workloads of compute at the edge by using high-end Central Processing Units and significant amount of Random Access Memory to process Varnish Configuration Language ("VCL"). We use solid-state drives, for fast and constant lookup times, and modern 100 Gigabit Ethernet for robust bandwidth. This, combined with our algorithms and custom software, gives us the flexibility to scale while dramatically reducing operating burden; One network. We have built a single powerful, compliant network to support customers security and delivery needs: Our single network is designed to provide the massive scale needed to defend against todays growing DDoS threats without sacrificing performance. The servers in our platform provide all of the features of our product suite, allowing rapid and predictable scaling; We help meet customers Payment Card Industry ("PCI"), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act ("HIPAA"), and Service Organization Control ("SOC") needs without impacting performance. Because of our flexible routing and server architecture, we do not need to send PCI traffic off to a separate sub-optimal network; Our network is self-healing, with cutting-edge discovery and failover techniques that allow us to select the best performing path for customers traffic in order to avoid internet weather disruptions, which are temporary, short-lived connectivity or performance degradation issues which are typically experienced by internet transit providers on a daily basis. Common Use Cases. Our powerful network along with our operational efficiency can easily handle use cases that are traditionally solved by CDNs. Some of these examples include: Infrastructure-agnostic traffic distribution . Support enterprise hybrid and multi-cloud strategies by intelligently routing traffic across different cloud providers, or between cloud and on-premise data centers, regardless of location; Efficient traffic spike management . Allow enterprises to accommodate traffic spikes by intelligently and rapidly distributing content requests across their network; Live streaming at scale . Deliver highly-reliable live streaming experiences with minimal interruptions, even when concurrently streaming to large global audiences; Responsive mobile applications . Serve rapidly-changing mobile content from the edge, enabling end-users to instantly access the very latest news updates, weather forecast, hotel availability, or store inventory from their mobile applications; Safety in Depth We believe that security should be integrated seamlessly into every layer of development: architecture, programming, and operations. Thats why we built security into the fabric of our platform, alongside performance. We provide developers and security operations teams with a fast, safe environment to create, build, and run modern applications with: 11 Operational agility. Our edge cloud platform minimizes risk through instant visibility and control. Security operation teams can use our real-time data feeds to see threats and exposures to vulnerabilities as they emerge. Our products are designed to make rule changes on the fly and update policies around the globe in seconds based on real-time traffic insights, without having to engage professional services. These features allow our security offerings to integrate into enterprise security software development cycles, thereby supporting modern DevSecOps practices; Performance centric. Fastlys security offerings allow developers to iterate and test code quickly, while providing security teams with tools that reduce risk without impeding performance. Our high-bandwidth, globally distributed network naturally scales to absorb disruptive DDoS attacks. Our WAF and bot detection solutions are built into our edge cloud platform, allowing us to protect web-based applications with minimal latency; Serverless security. Fastlys platform provides a secure, serverless development platform at the edge. It is designed to deploy custom applications, without impacting production traffic or having to worry about patching servers for the latest operating system vulnerabilities. Sandbox environments are instantly created to automatically execute code for customers for a limited period of time and rapidly decommission it, significantly reducing the attack surface; and Comprehensive app and API security. With our acquisition of Signal Sciences, we now offer application and API protection wherever its needed, not just at the network edge. Our next-generation WAF protects customers apps and APIs whether they are on-premises, in the cloud, in containers, or in hybrid environments. Customers get protection against advanced threats, including account takeover (ATO), malicious bots, API abuse and moreall in one integrated solution. With a more modern approach to detecting and blocking attacks, customers dont need to worry about false positives or dedicate full-time staff to WAF maintenance. Customer Empowerment Philosophy Fastly believes in empowering our customers to build great things, while collaborating with them to promote their success. We have a unique understanding of what it takes to deliver a frictionless customer experience by providing: Freedom to try. Our free trial allows developers to sign up and start experimenting with our edge cloud platform in a frictionless, self-service manner; Flexible support model. Developers are free to program on our edge cloud platform, taking advantage of our rich documentation and expertise of our developer community. For customers who require more guidance, we provide a range of support packages and access to deep technical expertise from front-of-line support staff to technical account managers; and Partner friendly. Just as we expose the ability to program at the edge to our customer base, we extend that power and functionality to our partners as well. This allows our partners to build out applications that run at the edge, and provide a feature or service that is complementary to our platform. We enable these integrations with a focus on API-support and a large number of code libraries. Growth Strategy Key elements of our growth strategy include the following: Invest in our technology platform. We intend to continue to invest in our large-scale, enterprise-grade edge cloud platform which is both developer-friendly and fully programmable and addresses the needs of organizations going through digital transformations. Our Edge Compute platform allows us to dramatically accelerate our pace of innovation, serving as the platform upon which Fastly builds new and differentiated products. For instance, since the end of 2015, our research and development team increased from 41 to 321 people as of December 31, 2021, deepening our talent across multiple functional groups; 12 Increase emphasis on security. In October 2020, we completed our acquisition of Signal Sciences to further bolster our security offerings at a time when data protection has become increasingly critical. We focused on integrating the application security capabilities from Signal Sciences into a unified new product offering called Secure@ Edge. We launched our first Signal Sciences and Fastly edge compute integrated product called Next Gen WAF (powered by Signal Sciences) in Q1 2022 and will continue to add more capabilities to our security offerings. Our continued investments will allow us to fulfill our mission of giving developers more power over the security of their applications and APIs, at the edge of the network. Expansion into additional vertical markets. Our platform offers a broad range of capabilities. Our differentiated high performance and low latency delivery network and edge compute platform, as well as enhanced security capabilities with the addition of Signal Sciences technology, allows us to serve the needs of our existing customers and continue to add customers from a diverse set of industries. As we broaden our product portfolio, we intend to leverage our Next Gen WAF to expand beyond our initial verticals of technology, online retail, travel and hospitality, digital publishing, and media and entertainment into more security-conscious verticals such as healthcare and finance. Further enable solution partners. Our edge cloud platform is the backend of choice for many of the largest Platform as a Service ("PaaS") vendors serving the developer community. These PaaS vendors aggregate millions of unique web properties under one brand, using Fastly as their edge cloud. We believe that more and more web applications will be built on convenient and powerful out-of-the-box solutions offered by large PaaS vendors. Many of our solution partners are PaaS providers who built us into their platform to offer faster, more secure and scalable experience. Current examples include Brightcove, Shopify, Drupal, Magento, WIX, and Adobe Portfolio. A s our partners expand their customer base, we will grow alongside them, providing us with exposure to millions of developers who will become familiar with us, and potentially become customers themselves. Further enable channel partners. With our acquisition of Signal Sciences, we have acquired a channel partner ecosystem that we are investing in to cross-sell to both Fastly and previous Signal Sciences customers while also helping drive international expansion. Expand existing customer relationships. Over time, our customers have expanded their use of our platform. In more technically savvy organizations, developers have championed our solution, paving the way for us to engage with business decision makers. For more traditional organizations, we are often brought in to initially help facilitate a move to the cloud and from there we extend our product to support many other use cases. We plan to continually increase wallet-share over time for existing customers as we build out new products and features, and as customers continue to fully recognize the value of our platform. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, our DBNER was 120.9% and 143.6%, respectively. Additionally, for the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, our NRR was 106.6% and 116.3%, respectively; and our LTM NRR was 117.6% and 137.4%, respectively. We believe the LTM NRR is supplemental as it removes some of the volatility inherent in a usage-based business model from the measurement of the NRR metric. Many of our largest customers have grown through a "land and expand" strategy. On average, our customers have increased their annual spend by more than 17% year over year since 2015, growing from an average last 12-months revenue of $50,000 to over $126,000 as of December 31, 2021. Grow our technology ecosystem. We operate between and complement the "big 3" origin cloud platforms, Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform, and a growing community of companies that provide big data, machine learning, and security solutions. In this sense, we act as the unifying layer for a growing number of cloud services. As customers consume more cloud and software as a service (SaaS") offerings, we can create additional value and grow with our partners. International Expansion. As our customer base grows, we plan to scale our network to bring edge computing closer to where our customers are. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, 27% and 32%, respectively, of our revenue was generated from customers headquartered outside 13 of the United States. As of December 31, 2021, we are strategically located in 71 markets, with more additions planned. We believe significant opportunity exists for international growth. Our Products Our edge cloud is a globally distributed, programmable platform designed for highly performant and secure web and application delivery. Our platform supports modern software development processes and empowers developers to innovate without constraints, as they lead the charge for their organizations digital transformation. We operate a single, software-centric network. Our POPs reside between a customers end-users and computing and data storage solutions, whether on-premise, in the cloud or a mixture of both. Our position on the network allows us to move functionality closer to end-users at the network edge for faster, more secure experiences. This includes edge compute, edge delivery, edge security, edge applications like load balancing and image optimization, video on demand, and managed edge delivery. All of our products are designed by developers for developers. Edge Compute We enable developers to write their own custom logic and entire applications to solve complex business problems at the network edge. Compute@Edge. This next generation serverless offering is intended to provide developers with a powerful new language-agnostic compute environment. Like all our offerings, Compute@Edge is built to be secure, performant and scalable; it offers 100x faster startup times than other solutions on the market. Fastly Developer Hub. This is a central place for developers to easily access all the tools they need to build fast, scalable and secure modern applications on our edge cloud platform. The Developer Hub includes: Solution Library patterns and recipes: Ready-to-deploy code snippets and deployment instructions to teach developers how to do basically anything on Fastly, with everything they need to implement in their own configurations; API and language references and change logs: Robust reference documentation and release notes provide complete access to all of the features available through the Fastly web interface and VCL; and Fastly Fiddle: A testing sandbox to experiment with Fastly configurations and debug custom code without impacting developers production services. Many of the initial use cases we saw in our Compute@Edge offering were originally built in our Varnish-based development environment. We also offer a number of reusable modules based on commonly deployed Varnish custom code, including: Device Detection and Geolocation . Gives developers the ability to rapidly adjust the content served to end-users based on location, device type, and language detection; Edge Dictionaries . Empower developers to make real-time decisions from every server in our network. Edge dictionaries act as a distributed database at the edge, made up of key-value pairs. For example, Edge Dictionaries allow customers to redirect end-users to a specific country site or update large referrer spam blacklists in real time; Edge Access Control Lists ("ACLs") . Help mitigate evolving threats from attackers by letting developers make changes at scale. ACLs block bad internet protocol ("IP") addresses from visiting customer sites, and for added security, they can create their own allow-lists; and Edge authentication . Developers can add custom Varnish-based code to their app to generate tokens and authenticate users at the edge, avoiding the extra cost and latency associated with going back to origin to verify a users identity. Edge Delivery 14 Our edge delivery offerings include full site delivery and streaming for high value media. Full Site Delivery Dynamic Site Acceleration . Speeds up requests and responses between cache nodes in our POPs and customers origin servers, so their dynamic web and mobile content is served faster. Origin Shield . Allows us to designate a specific POP to serve as a shield for a customers origin servers. When web content is refreshed, and multiple end-users request the new content simultaneously, it can lead to a deluge of requests hitting a customers origin server. This can result in poor web or application performance. With Origin Shield, we collapse all these content requests into a single request and hold it in queue at the Origin Shield POP. That allows us to go back to the customers origin server only once to retrieve the new content, then serve it to all end-users who requested it. This approach reduces costs for our customers, while improving performance for their end-users. Instant Purge . Lets customers clear the cached copy of their content globally in an average of 150 milliseconds or less. We allow customers to send a command to our platform that invalidates an old version of their content throughout our global edge infrastructure. This causes a new version of content to be retrieved from the application server the next time it is requested. This feature enables our customers to serve highly dynamic content at the edge more quickly and allows for delightful application experiences. Rapidly changing content like shopping cart items, flight search results, sports scores, or current weather conditions in any given location can all be served faster from the network edge. Surrogate Keys . Allow customers to fine-tune purging by tagging related objects across their site with a key name and description, then purging by that key. They can purge their entire site of a given object or set of objects at once, without impacting performance. For example, they could purge any images and content related to discontinued sale items, discounted products, or outdated news across their site all in one go. Real-time Logging and Stats . Provide metrics and full visibility into end-user requests in real time from the network edge. Log traffic is encrypted using Transport Layer Security ("TLS") and logs can be streamed to most major logging endpoint solutions. Cloud Optimizer. Cloud Optimizer targets eCommerce and high tech organizations who commonly work with multi-cloud or multi-CDN architectures. Cloud Optimizer sits between a customers CDNs and cloud providers, delivering intelligent routing capabilities without the need to rearchitect their infrastructure. Like Origin Shield, it also features request collapsing, to reduce origin traffic and costs and empowers customers with greater visibility and control over their network traffic. Programmatic Control . Fastly provides direct programmatic control of edge delivery services to our customers via the Varnish Configuration Language (VCL), allowing them to precisely control what content is cached, for how long and when it should be refreshed. Combined with comprehensive APIs, VCL allows our customers to build, test and deploy custom logic, using their own development, test and deployment environment, for even the most complex digital experience. Edge databases . As described for our Edge Compute offerings, Full Site Delivery customers also have access to powerful Edge Dictionaries and Access Control Lists to enable secure and personalized digital experiences that are faster when implemented at the edge, closer to end users. Content compression. Compressing content with technologies like Gzip and Brotli provides direct performance improvements and a more responsive web experience for end users. Reliability . Full Site Delivery services leverage a number of features and technologies that help ensure a customers content is highly available including origin health checks, a grace mode feature that will continue serving content even when customer origin(s) fail, Multipath TCP, and real time error dashboards and API feeds that are backed by a 100% uptime Availability SLA. 15 Modern protocols and performance. Fastly helps invent, standardize and deploys numerous next generation web technologies and protocols such as HTTP/3, QUIC, client hints and HTTP prioritization which ensure our customers, and the Internet in general, receive the best possible performance regardless user device, connectivity or location. Streaming Live Streaming. Our platform is designed to concurrently deliver millions of near real-time, high-quality live streams to our customers viewers. Our edge cloud supports the delivery of all major HTTP video streaming formats, and we partner with multiple online video platform vendors to improve the flexibility and scale of live streaming workflows, while also reducing total cost of ownership; Media Shield. Large streaming customers often route traffic across multiple CDNs for redundancy. Our Media Shield solution supports these efforts, while reducing total cost of ownership and improving visibility and performance. It does so by collapsing requests for the same video streaming content across all CDNs into one single request to the customers origin server. This reduces requests to origin and allows us to serve streaming content faster; and Origin Connect . Ideal for companies moving more than one gigabyte of data per second, such as media, video, and streaming companies, Origin Connect provides a direct private network connection between an organizations origin server and an Origin Shield POP. It is an effective way to lower transit costs, reduce engineering complexity, and improve reliability for high-volume streaming content. Edge Security DDoS Protection. Our high-bandwidth, globally distributed network is built to absorb DDoS attacks without impacting performance. Customers can respond to attacks in real time, filtering malicious requests at the network edge, before they reach their origin. Edge WAF. Our Fastly edge WAF is designed to protect applications from malicious attacks that would otherwise compromise web servers. It is integrated into our edge cloud platform, minimizing the impact on performance, since we only inspect requests going to a customers origin. Customers get real-time access to security events and notifications from the edge and can make instant changes to their WAF rules via our API. TLS. As part of our standard product, our platform terminates HTTPS connections at our network edge, offloading encrypted traffic from customers web servers for better performance. We provide a number of different certificate procurement and hosting options. Platform TLS. Our Platform TLS offering is designed to allow customers with multiple web properties to manage TLS certificates at scale, while enabling a fast, secure experience for their end-users. It supports delivery and management of hundreds of thousands of certificates, supported by our worldwide TLS termination and acceleration solution. Compliance. We speed up the caching and delivery of sensitive content at the edge, helping customers meet data compliance and privacy regulations such as HIPAA, the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation ("EU GDPR") and the United Kingdoms GDPR (U.K. GDPR), in addition to industry standards such as PCI Data Security Standard and SOC. Our Assurance Services offering includes support for additional documentation and audit procedures for customers with these needs. Application and API Security Through our acquisition of Signal Sciences, we added a unified web application and API protection solution that includes Runtime Self-Application protection (RASP), advanced rate limiting, API protection, bot management and next generation WAF. Next-gen WAF. Our next-generation Web Application Firewall protects applications from malicious attacks that seek to compromise apps and APIs. Our solution requires no tuning, and is more accurate 16 than the traditional rule or signature-based approaches. Our WAF can be installed in any infrastructure; cloud, container, on-premise data center or hybrid environments. Runtime Application Self-Protection (RASP). RASP protects from real-time attacks by embedding directly into application source code. Bot Protection . Bad bots can perform content scraping, tie up system resources, perform account brute forcing and other harmful actions. Our solution monitors web application and API traffic for automated bot activity, allowing customers to automatically block malicious bot-generated web requests. API Protection. Attackers often target sensitive APIs, attempting to validate stolen credit cards, perform e-commerce gift card fraud or obtain patient healthcare records. We help customers stop API abuse by enabling them to monitor for unexpected values and parameters submitted to API endpoints, and block unauthorized requests. ATO Protection . Account takeover occurs ("ATO") when attackers use authentication credentials to take over legitimate user accounts. Attackers test stolen credentials in an automated manner called credential stuffing. Our Account Takeover Protection empowers customers to automatically block and alert on credential stuffing attacks. Cloud DDoS. Our Cloud DDoS protection is an always-on service that provides immediate protection from network and application layer attacks, so web apps and APIs are always available and performant. Advanced Rate Limiting. Advanced Rate Limiting enables customers to stop malicious and anomalous high volume web requests and reduce resource consumption while allowing legitimate traffic through to application and API endpointsdoing so means companies can provide a superior customer experience that scales to meet increasing demand. Edge Applications Load Balancer. Our Layer 7 load balancer manages HTTP/HTTPS requests to a customers origin using granular content-aware routing decisions. We allow customers to manage traffic across multiple IaaS providers, data centers, and hybrid clouds. We also provide improved performance and cost savings over ADCs, especially during a spike or surge in traffic. Image Optimizer. We offer a real-time image manipulation and delivery service and store transformations at the edge. When an image is requested, we resize it, adjust quality, crop/trim, change orientations, convert formats, and more, all on demand. Transforming images at the edge eliminates latency and reduces traffic to a customers origin servers, allowing them to save on infrastructure and egress costs. Video on Demand Our edge cloud platform is designed to cache and rapidly deliver both frequently and infrequently requested on-demand videos. We significantly reduce the load on a customers origin servers while accelerating time to first frame. Our on-the-fly-packaging feature facilitates immediate playback, enhancing viewer experiences across multiple devices and platforms. Managed Edge Delivery Our managed delivery service provides customers with maximum flexibility and control. We deploy our edge cloud platform on dedicated POPs within a customers private network, at locations of their choosing. This service can be used exclusively, or as part of a hybrid, multi-CDN strategy. Partner Ecosystem Our partner ecosystem consists of a wide range of companies who sell, service, package and build edge applications to integrate with our platform. Our program provides partners with the flexibility to accommodate different go-to-market models and allows each partner to customize their offerings to provide their own differentiated value. This ecosystem consists of companies who build edge applications to integrate with our platform, enterprise resellers and security integration providers, 5G and IOT platforms, video and streaming providers, cloud service providers, logging and analytics providers, as well as JAMStack and PaaS providers. Our partners are all looking to extend the power of our edge cloud platform to their customers. 17 Edge Application Partners Our edge cloud platform exposes blocks of code that allow trusted partners to develop real-time analysis and enforcement applications. Building out a massive edge presence is beyond the financial and technical capabilities of all but a handful of companies. By opening our platform to third parties, we allow these partners to focus on building new and innovative edge applications, without the capital outlay and complexity of doing it themselves. It opens up new markets and business models for them. Enterprise Resellers & Security Integration Partners Our acquisition of Signal Sciences welcomed new enterprise resellers and integration partners into our partner ecosystem. Enterprise resellers work with our sales and presales teams to scale sales cycle support. This helps expand our worldwide network of partners dedicated to protecting customer's business initiatives like DevOps and cloud adoption. We have recently expanded the reach and breadth of these partners to include cross-selling Fastly and security products and will increase our program's global expansion. Signal Sciences also seamlessly integrates with a number of technology partners to help customers enhance their workflows, empower DevOps processes, increase their security visibility, and drive operational efficiencies. Examples of these integration partnerships include VMware (Tanzu), Palo Alto Networks, Cisco, Datadog, Citrix, PagerDuty, Okta and more. Cloud Service Provider Partners We integrate with major cloud providers to enhance their services and create solutions that are powerful, scalable, and secure. We have exclusive Private Network Interconnects (PNIs) and peering arrangements with key cloud providers, such as Google Cloud Platform, Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web Services and others, to eliminate or minimize egress fees, enhance security, and improve overall performance. We can help customers on their digital transformation journeys with seamless cloud migrations, meaning zero downtime for their business, or provide a seamless user experience for customers deploying a multi-cloud strategy. Recently, we announced our availability on the Google Cloud Marketplace and AWS Marketplace, which can help eliminate the need for customers to have separate billing arrangements and makes Fastly services eligible for Google Cloud Platform and AWS committed spends. Logging and Analytics Partners Logging and analytics partners integrate with our edge cloud platform to deliver enhanced functionality to our joint customers. Our logging feature provides insights into web and mobile requests and response, such as slow or missing URLs, most requested URLs, site performance by region, and much more. Our statistics provide insights into things like percentage of requests per second, request misses, errors, latency, traffic spikes, and global traffic profiles. Both logs and statistics can be streamed in real time to our logging and analytics partners. This empowers our joint customers to monitor performance, troubleshoot issues as they occur, and view this data alongside other metrics in consolidated dashboards. Logging and analytics partners include the following: Google. A tight integration with Google Cloud Platform allows real-time logs to be streamed to any Google Cloud Platform big data service, including Google Cloud Storage, BigQuery, and Bigtable; Microsoft. Our integration with Microsoft Azure allows real-time logs to be streamed to both Azure Blob Storage and Kusto; Datadog. Datadog uses our API to pull in real-time stats and analytics for display in their dashboard; Looker. Looker combines log data with other data sources in BigQuery, such as Google Analytics, Google Ads data, or security and firewall data. Customers can then run multiple queries against these data sets and present findings in Looker dashboards; Sumo Logic. Sumo Logic integrates with our platform to offer more granular logging data for customers with large-scale analytics. Customers gain real-time insights into slow URLs, missing or most requested URLs, site performance by region, and more; and 18 Logentries. Logentries provides a one-click integration with our platform, making it easy for customers to quickly set up real-time logs. PaaS Partners PaaS partners integrate our edge cloud platform into their solutions to make it easier for their developers to scale and secure websites. Heroku . Heroku empowers companies to build, deliver, monitor, and scale applications. Our Heroku add-on lets developers seamlessly integrate their Heroku hosted applications with our edge cloud platform through the click of a button; Magento Commerce . Magento Commerce, an Adobe company, provides a platform that enables merchants to integrate digital and physical shopping experiences. Our Magento extension lets developers manage their entire content caching strategy from the Magento control panel while maintaining fast, reliable performance; and Drupal and Wordpress . Drupal and Wordpress are Content Management Systems ("CMS") partners. They provide self-hosted solutions for customers to create and manage all the content on their websites. Our Drupal and Wordpress extensions allow developers to easily configure and manage their content caching strategy from within these CMS dashboards. Several of the large CMS platforms leverage Fastlys products and services within their offerings, ensuring their customers have the best user experience on the web. Our Culture and Human Capital Resources Our Values Technology has the potential to make a radically positive impact on the world, and we aspire to improve human lives through our work. We were founded on strong ethical principles, and have intentionally grown values-first, scaling our workforce, services, customer portfolio, and investment partners purposefully. We are only as good as the company we keep, and this guides our hiring practices as well as the ethics we are committed to upholding as we scale. We believe that as a result of our values, we have been able to identify, attract, engage and retain great people. We want to serve the very best of the internet. We choose to work with customers that we believe have integrity, are trustworthy, and do not promote violence or hate. Our eight core values define who we are and how we choose to grow, hire, train, work, communicate, make decisions, support each other, and serve our customers. 19 Our Strategy We are dedicated to building a diverse workforce and leadership team that reflects our values and the unique needs of our global customer base. We strive to be a company full of talented, highly effective, kind, honest, passionate, and high-integrity people. We are dependent on our highly qualified employees and executives, and it is crucial that we continue to attract, engage and retain valuable employees, particularly in light of the increase in employee resignations currently taking place throughout the United States as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is commonly referred to as the great resignation. We believe in investing in our people and motivating talented individuals with a strong career path and competitive compensation program. Our U.S. support engineers are often hired from code schools, and many code school graduates transition from support into other organizations within the company, championing the customer voice and infusing our teams with a strong, service-focused mindset. Our engineering staff recruits world-class experts in every part of the technology stack that makes up the internet, which inspires great developers to join us. Our compensation program is designed to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees and executives. We use a mix of competitive base salary, equity compensation awards, and other employee benefits. We are building a global, healthy, safe, and diverse workforce and an inclusive culture that empowers and supports our employees and customers. We onboard all new employees with training programs on our values, certain aspects of our business, and important policies, including our Safe, Welcoming, and Productive Work Environment Policy. Annually thereafter we provide employees with code of conduct and security awareness training, a learning reimbursement program and performance evaluations. Our employee engagement efforts currently include company-wide newsletters, all-hands meetings, and AMA (ask me anything) sessions, through which we aim to keep our employees well-informed and to increase transparency. We also use employee engagement surveys to collect employee feedback and assess the effectiveness of our culture, our strategy, and various health and well-being programs. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken significant steps to protect the health and safety of our workforce. Our offices have remained temporarily closed since March 1, 2020, and we have taken other precautionary measures, such as instituting protocols and guidelines for Fastly-related travel, intended to facilitate social distancing and help minimize the risk of the virus to our employees, our customers, and the communities in which we participate. Throughout the pandemic we have conducted periodic employee pulse surveys in order to get a deeper understanding of what our employees were experiencing and to inform our policies and priorities. We also instituted monthly employee wellness days, provided a monthly internet stipend, and held virtual workshops on topics such as mental health and leading and supporting remote teams. Employees As of December 31, 2021, we had a total of 976 employees worldwide and 188 employees located outside of the United States. We have a reputation as an early adopter of the distributed workforce model and this approach has enabled us to recruit highly skilled professionals around the world. Prior to the COVID-19 pandemic, as of December 31, 2019, nearly 40% of our employees were working in a remote-capacity. As of December 31, 2021, 65.8% of o ur employees worldwide were considered remote, which means they reside in locations where we do not expect to have a Fastly office presence once we reopen. Given our early experience building a distributed workplace culture, we were able to quickly transition to all employees working remotely in response to COVID-19. Organization Sales & Marketing Our go-to-market model initially focused on reaching and serving the needs of developers. We reached developers through working groups, community events, conferences, and word-of-mouth. Our platform was built to empower developers to innovate at their own pace, so our platform is accessible, transparent, and self-service. The majority of our customers enter into negotiated contracts with us. These contracts typically include specific pricing and a minimum monthly commitment. As developers have expanded their usage of our platform, our relationship has evolved to include business leaders within their organizations. Customers who sign up online can access our self-service pricing matrix which is publicly available. 20 Our sales and marketing organizations work together closely to cultivate customer relationships with developers and business leaders at enterprises and technology-savvy organizations to drive revenue growth. We have geographically-based sales teams that continue to enhance our value-based selling methodology. Our land and expand sales strategy for enterprise customers has successfully demonstrated our platforms capabilities, and our customer support enables broad adoption of our technology within an organization. We also offer a trial to developers who sign up for testing and experimentation. We do this in order to strengthen our relationship and reputation within the developer community by providing developers with the ability to familiarize themselves with our platform without first becoming a paying customer. Once signed up, developers can easily access our programmable interface, extensive self-service documentation, and customer support team. Our low-friction trial experience allows developers to validate that our edge platform works for them at no cost or risk. Research & Development Our research and development team members are responsible for the design, development, and reliability of all aspects of our edge cloud platform. Continuous improvement and innovation are core to our DNA, and these efforts are baked directly into our service life cycle. Scale, performance, security, and reliability are core functional requirements of everything we build into our platform to serve our customers. Our philosophy of customer empowerment guides our research processes. Our product managers regularly engage with customers and the developer, DevOps and site reliability engineering communities, as well as our internal stakeholders and subject matter experts, in order to understand customer needs. Our engineering team is comprised of experts with deep experience, who intimately understand customers technical challenges and build solutions accordingly. Throughout the strategic, design, and build phases of our product life cycle, our development organization works closely with our product, infrastructure, operations, and compliance teams to design, develop, test, and launch any given solution. We strive for a balance of rapid iteration without compromise on the core functional requirements that our customers expect: scale, performance, security, and reliability. As of December 31, 2021, we had 321 employees in our research and development group. Our research and development expenses were $126.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2021. Infrastructure Our infrastructure team is responsible for the design, deployment, and maintenance of the servers and network hardware that form the foundation of our mission critical environment in 71 markets as of December 31, 2021. We invest in research into global internet geography to identify optimal colocation site selection, network partner identification, and network-to-network interconnection opportunities. These activities allow us to connect in close proximity to core internet backbones and ISPs, thereby enhancing network performance. We carefully evaluate and test hardware from leading server, network, and component manufacturers to ensure they comply with our workload performance, system efficiency, and mean time-to-repair standards. In our process, we evaluate commodity server and network platforms to avoid vendor lock-in, while optimizing the mix of components in an effort to improve efficiency and optimize our capital expenditures. We intend to grow the number of data center colocation sites as traffic on our network grows and as demands for new markets justify investment. Trust We uphold transparency and trustworthiness as company values. Our security, compliance and data governance teams, as well as other departments across the company, continually iterate on our trust programs to better meet growing customer needs, updated regulatory requirements, and the evolving security threat landscape. To help validate the controls that safeguard our platform and the data moving through it, we have expanded our portfolio of security and compliance-related assessments and certifications over time. Customer Support We have designed our products and platform to be self-service and require minimal customer support. Customers are automatically covered by our standard support plan as soon as they sign up with us. They can file a ticket with the support team, 21 access documentation including online FAQs, API references, and configuration guidelines. Our support approach is unique as we have built it with developers in mind. Our first-line support employee typically has an engineering background and is highly technical. We also provide several options for premier, hands-on support from a team of highly-technical senior support engineers and technical account managers. They act as a single point of contact for our support, product and engineering teams. Our support model is global, with 24/7 coverage and support offices located throughout the United States, EMEA, and Japan. Partnerships & Strategic Relationships We believe that building a strong partner ecosystem helps amplify our reach and time-to-market, while providing our customers with enhanced value from our joint offerings. By investing in these partnerships, we hope to cross-sell between the Signal Sciences and Fastly customer bases to increase per customer revenue. In addition, we hope to increase customer satisfaction and retention since developers and decision makers will now get to work with their partner of choice. Our partners and strategic alliances include: Integration Partners Solutions Partners Referral and Reseller Partners Central Cloud Partners Competition Our platform spans several markets from cloud computing and cloud security to CDNs. We segment the competitive landscape into five key categories: Legacy CDNs like Akamai, Limelight, EdgeCast (part of Verizon Digital Media), Level3, and Imperva (for security); Small business focused CDNs like Cloudflare, StackPath, and Section.io; Application and API security vendors like Akamai, Cloudflare, Imperva, Amazon Web Services and F5 (Shape) Cloud providers who are starting to offer compute functionality at the edge like Amazons CloudFront, AWS Lambda, and Google Cloud Platform; and Traditional data center and appliance vendors like F5, Citrix, A10 Networks, Cisco, Imperva, Radware, and Arbor, as well as networks that offer a range of on-premise solutions for load balancing, WAF, and DDoS. The principle competitive factors in our market include: Platform scalability and performance; Global network coverage; Platform reliability and security; Ease of integration and programmability; Credibility with developers; Ability to support modern application development processes; Brand awareness, reputation, and trust; 22 Strength of our sales and marketing efforts; Quality of customer support; and Price and network cost savings. We believe we generally compete favorably with our competitors on the basis of these factors. Our edge cloud platform integrates many of the point products offered by our competitors which is a key differentiator. However, many of our competitors have substantially greater financial and technical resources in addition to larger sales and marketing budgets, broader market distribution, and more mature intellectual property portfolios. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements and other contractual protections, to protect our proprietary technology. We also rely on a number of registered and unregistered trademarks to protect our brand. As of December 31, 2021, in the United States, we had 74 issued patents, which expire between August 2033 and February 2040, 39 patent applications pending for examination, as well as 6 pending provisional applications. As of such date, we also had 20 issued patents and 24 patent applications pending for examination in foreign jurisdictions and 29 Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications pending for examination, all of which are related to U.S. patents and patent applications. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, we had 16 registered trademarks in the United States. In addition, we seek to protect our intellectual property rights by requiring our employees and independent contractors involved in development of intellectual property on our behalf to enter into agreements acknowledging that all works or other intellectual property generated or conceived by them on our behalf are our property, and assigning to us any rights, including intellectual property rights, that they may claim or otherwise have in those works or property, to the extent allowable under applicable law. Despite our efforts to protect our technology and proprietary rights through intellectual property rights, licenses, and other contractual protections, unauthorized parties may still copy or otherwise obtain and use our software and other technology. In addition, we intend to continue to expand our international operations, and effective intellectual property, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in foreign countries. Any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. Further, companies in the communications and technology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, and trademarks and frequently threaten litigation, or file suit based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We are currently subject to, and expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we also receive demands for indemnification from our customers under the terms of our contracts with them for infringement of a third-partys intellectual property rights. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we have been and will continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. We have received, and may in the future continue to receive, claims from third parties asserting, among other things, infringement of their intellectual property rights. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves, our partners, and our customers by determining the scope, enforceability, and validity of third-party proprietary rights, or to establish our proprietary rights. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies for discussion around our legal proceedings. Regulatory We are subject to a number of U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations may involve privacy, data protection, intellectual property, competition, consumer 23 protection, or other subjects. Many of the laws and regulations to which we are subject are still evolving and being tested in courts and could be interpreted in ways that could harm our business. In addition, the application and interpretation of these laws and regulations often are uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. Because global laws and regulations have continued to develop and evolve rapidly, it is possible that we may not be, or may not have been, compliant with each such applicable law or regulation. For a description of the risks we face related to regulatory matters, refer to Item 1A.Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Corporate Information We were initially incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in March 2011 under the name SkyCache, Inc. We changed our name to Fastly, Inc. in May 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 475 Brannan Street, Suite 300, San Francisco, California 94107. Our telephone number is 1-844-432-7859. Our website address is www.fastly.com. The information contained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We file annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a), 14 and 15(d) of the Exchange Act. The SEC maintains a website at https://www.sec.gov that contains reports, and other information regarding us and other companies that file materials with the SEC electronically. Copies of our reports on Forms 10-K, Forms 10-Q, and Forms 8-K, may be obtained, free of charge, electronically through our investor relations website at https://fastly.com/investors as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish such material to, the SEC. 24 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section titled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before deciding to invest in our Class A common stock. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our business being harmed in these risk factors will include harm to our business, reputation, customer growth, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects. Any of these events could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline, which would cause our stockholders to lose all or part of their investment. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Technology If our platform fails to perform properly due to defects, interruptions, outages, delays in performance, or similar problems, and if we fail to develop enhancements to resolve any defect, interruption, delay, or other problems, we could lose customers, become subject to service performance or warranty claims or incur significant costs. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to prevent system interruption. The applications underlying our edge cloud computing platform are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, which may cause disruptions in availability or other performance problems. We have from time to time found defects and errors in our platform and may discover additional defects or errors in the future that could result in data unavailability, unauthorized access to, loss, corruption, or other harm to our customers data. These defects or errors could also be found in third-party applications or open source software on which we rely. We may not be able to detect and correct defects or errors before implementing our products. Consequently, we or our customers may discover defects or errors after our products have been deployed. We currently serve our customers from our POPs located around the world. Our customers need to be able to access our platform at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance. However, we have not developed redundancies for all aspects of our platform. We depend, in part, on our third-party facility providers ability to protect these facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts, public health issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and similar events. In some cases, third-party cloud providers run their own platforms that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to their service interruptions. In the event that there are any defects or errors in software, failures of hardware, damages to a facility, or misconfigurations of any of our services, we may have to divert resources away from other planned work, could experience lengthy interruptions in our platform, and also incur delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. Our customers may choose to divert their traffic away from our platform as a result of interruptions or delays. Disaster recovery arrangements, including the existence of redundant data centers that are designed to become active during certain lapses of service, may not function as intended, and any disruptions to our service could harm our business. We design our system infrastructure and procure and own or lease the computer hardware used for our platform. Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume, and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions on our platform. Moreover, we have experienced and may in the future experience system failures or interruptions in our platform as a result of human error. For example, in January 2021, an undiscovered bug in a software update caused a platform interruption that affected many of our customers, resulting in service level agreement claims. In addition, on June 8, 2021, we experienced a global platform outage due to an undiscovered software bug caused by human error. The outage was triggered by a valid customer configuration change and has resulted in customers reducing or removing traffic from our platform and service level agreement claims. While these customers have returned traffic to our platform, not all customer traffic has returned to pre-outage levels. Any interruptions or delays in our platform, whether caused by our products or our data centers, third-party error, our own error, natural disasters, the effects of climate change (such as drought, flooding, wildfires, increased storm severity, and sea level rise), or security breaches, or whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with customers, reduce customers usage of our platform, cause our revenue to decrease and our expenses to increase, and divert resources away from product development. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further 25 reduce our revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue service credits or cause customers to fail to renew their customer contracts, any of which could harm our business. The occurrence of any defects, errors, disruptions in service, failures involving redundant data centers, or other performance problems, interruptions, or delays with our platform, whether in connection with the day-to-day operations or otherwise, could result in: loss of customers; reduced customer usage of our platforms; lost or delayed market acceptance and sales of our products, or the failure to launch products or features on anticipated timelines; delays in payment to us by customers; injury to our reputation and brand; governmental inquiry or oversight; legal claims, including warranty and service level agreement claims, against us; or diversion of our resources, including through increased service and warranty expenses or financial concessions, and increased insurance costs. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects, errors, or other performance problems in our platform may be substantial and could harm our business. If we are unable to attract new customers, in particular, enterprise customers, and to have existing enterprise customers continue and increase their use of our platform, our business will likely be harmed. To grow our business, we must continue to attract new customers, in particular, enterprise customers and generate revenue from those new customers. To do so, we must successfully convince potential customers of the benefits and the value of our platform. This may require significant and costly sales efforts that are targeted at larger enterprises and senior management of these potential customers. Sales to enterprise customers may involve longer sales cycles as a result of customers requiring considerable time to evaluate our platform, requiring participation in a competitive purchasing process, having more formal processes for approval of purchases, and more complex requirements. These factors significantly impact our ability to add new customers and increase the time, resources, and sophistication required to do so. In addition, numerous other factors, some of which are out of our control, may now or in the future impact our ability to acquire new customers, including potential customers commitments to other providers, real or perceived costs of switching to our platform, our failure to expand, retain, and motivate our sales and marketing personnel, our failure to develop or expand relationships with potential customers and channel partners, failure by us to help our customers to successfully deploy our platform, negative media or industry or financial analyst commentary regarding us or our solutions, litigation, and deteriorating general economic conditions. If we fail to attract new customers, particularly enterprise customers, as a result of these and other factors our business will likely be harmed. In addition, our ability to grow and generate incremental revenue depends on our ability to maintain and grow our relationships with our existing enterprise customers so that they continue and increase their usage of our platform. If these customers do not maintain and increase their usage of our platform, our revenue may decline and our results of operations will likely be harmed. We charge our customers based on the usage of our platform. Most of our customers, including some of our largest enterprise customers, do not have long-term contractual financial commitments to us. In addition, most of our current customer 26 contracts are only one year in duration and these customers may not use our platform in a subsequent year. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers, in particular, our enterprise customers, use our platform in excess of their commitment levels, if any, and continue to use our platform on the same or more favorable terms. Our ability to retain our largest customers and expand their usage could be impaired for a variety of reasons, including customer budget constraints, customer satisfaction, changes in our customers underlying businesses, changes in the type and size of our customers, pricing changes, competitive conditions, the acquisition of our customers by other companies, governmental actions, or the possibility thereof, and general economic conditions. Because many of our largest customers minimum usage commitments for our platform are relatively low compared to their expected usage, it can be easy for certain customers to quickly reallocate usage or switch from our platform to an alternative platform altogether. In addition, they may reduce or cease their use of our products at any time without penalty or termination charges, even after they have expanded usage in prior periods. We base our decisions about expense levels and investments on estimates of our future revenue and anticipated rate of growth. Many of our expenses are fixed cost in nature for some minimum amount of time, such as colocation and bandwidth, so if we do experience slower usage growth on our platform it may not be possible to reduce costs in a timely manner or without the payment of fees to exit certain obligations early. If any of these events were to occur, our business may be harmed. In addition, many of our customers have negotiated and may continue to negotiate lower rates for their usage in exchange for an agreement to renew, expand their usage in the future, or adopt new products. As a result, in certain cases, even though customers have not reduced their usage of our platform, the revenue we derive from that usage has decreased. If our usage or revenue fall significantly below the expectations of the public market, securities analysts, or investors, our business would be harmed, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our future success also depends in part on our ability to expand our existing customer relationships, in particular, with enterprise customers, by increasing their usage of our platform and selling them additional products. The rate at which our customers increase their usage of our platform and purchase products from us depends on a number of factors, including our ability to grow our platform and maintain the security and availability of it, develop and deliver new features and products, maintain customer satisfaction, general economic conditions and pricing and services offered by our competitors. If our efforts to increase usage of our platform by, or sell additional products to, our enterprise customers are not successful, our business would be harmed. In addition, even if our largest customers increase their usage of our platform, we cannot guarantee that they will maintain those usage levels for any meaningful period of time. In addition, because many of our products endeavor to deliver increased efficiency and functionality, the successful sale of an additional product to an existing customer could result in a reduction of the customer's overall usage of our platform. If we fail to forecast our revenue accurately, or if we fail to manage our expenditures, our operating results could be adversely affected. We cannot accurately predict customers usage or renewal rates given the diversity of our customer base across industries, geographies and size, and ability of customers to allocate usage, among other factors. Accordingly, we may be unable to accurately forecast our revenues notwithstanding our substantial investments in sales and marketing, infrastructure, and research and development in anticipation of growth in our business. If we do not realize returns on these investments in our growth, our results of operations could differ materially from our forecasts, which would adversely affect our results of operations and could disappoint analysts and investors, causing our stock price to decline. We receive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers from a limited number of industries, and the loss of, or a significant reduction in usage by, one or more of our major customers would result in lower revenues and could harm our business. Our future success is dependent on establishing and maintaining successful relationships with a diverse set of customers. We currently receive a substantial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers and from a limited number of industries, such as media and entertainment. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 34% of our revenue and our top five customers accounted for approximately 22% of our revenue. It is likely that we will continue to be dependent upon a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future and, in some cases, the portion of our revenues attributable to individual customers may increase in the future. In addition, changes to our customers business may cause our revenues attributable to individual customers to increase, including any impact from merger and acquisition activities, internal business reorganizations leading to operational and 27 decision making changes, and corporate structure changes such as subsidiary consolidation and reorganization that may arise in the future. The loss of one or more key customers or a reduction in usage by any major customers would reduce our revenues. For example, on June 8, 2021, we experienced a global platform outage due to an undiscovered software bug caused by human error. The outage was triggered by a valid customer configuration change and resulted in customers, including some of our largest customers, reducing or removing traffic from our platform and service level agreement claims. While these customers have returned traffic to our platform, not all customer traffic has returned to pre-outage levels. If we fail to maintain existing customers or develop relationships with new customers and across different industries, our business would be harmed. Component delays, shortages or price increases could interrupt our ability to complete the construction of our servers to meet the usage needs of our customers. Our business is dependent upon the timely supply of certain parts and components to construct our servers. We rely on a limited number of suppliers for several components of the equipment we use to operate our network and provide products to our customers. Our reliance on these suppliers exposes us to risks, including reduced control over production costs and constraints based on the then current availability, terms, and pricing of these components. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted, and we expect will continue to result, in disruptions and delays for these components and the delivery and installation of such components at our co-location facilities, in addition to pricing increases. For example, throughout 2021, a global shortage of microchips has resulted in supply constraints for a number of electronics firms, including manufacturers that supply the components to construct our servers. If our supply of certain components is disrupted or delayed, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain adequate replacements for the existing components or that supplies will be available on terms and prices that are favorable to us, if at all. Any disruption or delay in the supply of our hardware components may limit capacity expansion or replacement of defective or obsolete equipment, or cause other constraints on our operations that could damage our customer relationships and harm our business. Our limited operating history and our history of operating losses makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and prospects and may increase the risks associated with your investment. We were founded in 2011 and have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growth companies in constantly evolving industries, including companies in the technology sector, including the risks described in this report. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business may be harmed. We generated a net loss of $222.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and as of December 31, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $510.9 million. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels and manage costs in future periods in order to become profitable; even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We intend to continue to expend significant funds to support further growth and further develop our platform, including expanding the functionality of our platform, expanding our technology infrastructure and business systems to meet the needs of our customers, expanding our direct sales force and partner ecosystem, increasing our marketing activities, and growing our international operations. We will also face increased compliance costs associated with growth, expansion of our customer base, and the costs of being a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described herein, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, our business may be harmed. Further, we have limited historical financial data and operate in a rapidly evolving market. As such, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. If our security measures, or those maintained on our behalf, are compromised now, or in the future, or the security, confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information technology, software, services, networks, communications or data is compromised, limited or fails, our business could experience a materially adverse impact, including significant costs and disruptions that could harm our business, financial results, and reputation. 28 Our business is dependent on providing our customers with fast, efficient, and reliable distribution of applications and content over the internet. We transmit and store our customers information, data, and encryption keys as well as our own; customer information and data may include personally identifiable data of and about their end-users. Maintaining the security and availability of our platform, network, and internal IT systems and the security of information we hold on behalf of our customers is a critical issue for us and our customers, and we may expend significant resources, fundamentally change our business activities and practices, or modify our operations in an effort to protect against security incidents and to mitigate, detect, and remediate actual and potential vulnerabilities. Attacks on our customers and our own network are frequent and take a variety of forms, including DDoS attacks, infrastructure attacks, botnets, malicious file attacks, cross-site scripting, credential abuse, ransomware, bugs, viruses, worms, and malicious software programs. For example, during 2021 we experienced DDoS attacks of increased size and severity that caused us to invest resources into improving our systems, and we expect to continue to be subject to DDoS and other forms of attacks in the future, particularly as they have become more prevalent in our industry. Malicious actors can attempt to fraudulently induce employees or suppliers to disclose sensitive information through spamming, phishing, or other tactics. Similarly, supply chain attacks have increased in frequency and severity, and we cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our platform, systems and networks or the systems and networks of third parties that support us and our services. For example, in December 2021, the Apache Software Foundation publicly disclosed a remote code execution vulnerability in its Log4j 2 product (Log4j), an open-source component widely used in Java-based software applications to log and track error messages, which affected large amounts of systems worldwide. While we have identified and remediated all known Log4j vulnerabilities in our systems, we expect to continue to encounter vulnerabilities and potential attacks related to open source libraries integrated in our systems. Ransomware attacks, including by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, are also becoming increasingly prevalent and severe and can lead to significant interruptions in our operations, loss of data and income, reputational harm, and diversion of funds. Extortion payments may alleviate the negative impact of a ransomware attack, but we may be unwilling to make such payments, or unable to make such payments due to, for example, applicable laws or regulations prohibiting such payments. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to gain physical access to our facilities in order to infiltrate our information systems. We have in the past been subject to cyber-attacks from third parties, including parties who we believe are sponsored by government actors. Since our customers share our multi-tenant architecture, an attack on any one of our customers could have a negative effect on other customers. These attacks have significantly increased the bandwidth used on our platform and have strained our network. If attacks like these were to occur in the future and if we do not have the systems and processes in place to respond to them, our business could be harmed. Future or past business transactions (such as acquisitions or integrations) could expose us to additional cybersecurity risks and vulnerabilities, as our systems could be negatively affected by vulnerabilities present in acquired or integrated entities systems and technologies. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic and our remote workforce poses increased risks to our information technology and network, as more of our employees work from home, utilizing network connections outside our premises. Security incidents, whether as a result of third-party action, employee or customer error, technology impairment or failure, malfeasance or criminal activity, or hostile state actors, could result in unauthorized access to, or loss or unauthorized disclosure of, customer information or data, litigation, indemnity obligations, and other possible liabilities. Incidents involving customer information have in the past resulted in pricing and other concessions, decreased customer usage and terminations by affected customers, and similar security incidents could occur in the future that result in pricing concessions, indemnity obligations, and other possible liabilities related to such unauthorized access, loss or disclosure, including litigation. Further, certain of our insurance policies and the laws of some states may limit or prohibit insurance coverage for punitive or certain other types of damages or liability arising from gross negligence or intentional misconduct of us and our suppliers and we cannot assure you that we are adequately insured against the risks that we face. In recent years, cyber-attacks have increased in size, sophistication, and complexity, increasing exposure for our customers and us. In addition, as we expand our emphasis on selling security-related products, we may become a more attractive target for attacks on our infrastructure intended to destabilize, overwhelm, or shut down our platform. For example, we have had security incidents in the past that have tested the limits of our infrastructure and impacted the performance of our platform. The costs to us to avoid or alleviate cyber or other security problems and vulnerabilities are significant. However, our efforts to address these problems and vulnerabilities may not be successful. Any actual or perceived significant breach of our security measures could: lead to the dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal, or confidential data about us, our employees, or our customersincluding personally identifiable information of individuals involved with our customers and their end-users; 29 lead to interruptions or degradation of performance in our platform; threaten our ability to provide our customers with access to our platform; generate negative publicity about us; result in litigation and increased legal liability or fines; or lead to governmental inquiry or oversight. Additionally, applicable data protection laws, privacy policies and data protection obligations may require us to notify relevant stakeholders of security incidents, including affected individuals, customers, regulators and credit reporting agencies. Such disclosures are costly, and the disclosures or the failure to comply with such requirements, could lead to materially adverse impacts, including, without limitation, government enforcement (for example, investigations, fines penalties, audits, and inspections), additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, restrictions on processing sensitive information (including personal information), litigation (including class claims), indemnification obligations, monetary fund diversions, interruptions in our operations (including availability of data), financial loss, negative publicity, a loss of customer confidence in our services, breach of contract claims, and other similar harms. The occurrence, or perceived occurrence, of any of these events could harm our business or damage our brand and reputation, lead to customer credits, loss of customers, higher expenses, and possibly impede our present and future success in retaining and attracting new customers. A successful security breach or attack on our infrastructure would be damaging to our reputation and could harm our business. Additionally, our contracts may not contain limitations of liability, and even where they do, there can be no assurance that limitations of liability in our contracts are sufficient to protect us from liabilities, damages, or claims related to our privacy and data protection obligations. We also cannot be sure that our insurance coverage will be adequate or sufficient to protect us from or to mitigate liabilities arising out of our privacy and security practices, that such coverage will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that such coverage will pay future claims. Similar security risks exist with respect to our business partners and the third-party vendors that we rely on for aspects of our information technology support services and administrative functions. As a result, we are subject to the risk that cyber-attacks on our business partners and third-party vendors may adversely affect our business even if an attack or breach does not directly impact our systems. Our ability to monitor these business partners and third-party vendors security measures is limited, and these business partners and third-party vendors may not have adequate security measures in place. It is also possible that security breaches sustained by our competitors could result in negative publicity for our entire industry that indirectly harms our reputation and diminishes demand for our platform. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, and changing customer needs, requirements, or preferences, our products may become less competitive. The market in which we compete is relatively new and subject to rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and regulatory changes, as well as changing customer needs, requirements, and preferences. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to these changes on a timely basis. If we are unable to develop and sell new products that satisfy our customers and provide enhancements, new features, and capabilities to our platform that keep pace with rapid technological and industry change, our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If new technologies emerge that enable large internet platform companies to utilize their own data centers and implement delivery approaches that limit or eliminate reliance on third-party providers like us, or that enable our competitors to deliver competitive products and applications at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently, or more securely, such technologies could adversely impact our ability to compete. If our platform does not allow us or our customers to comply with the latest regulatory requirements, our existing customers may decrease their usage on our platform and new customers will be less likely to adopt our platform. Our platform must also integrate with a variety of network, hardware, mobile, and software platforms and technologies, and we need to continuously modify and enhance our products and platform capabilities to adapt to changes and innovation in 30 these technologies. If developers widely adopt new software platforms, we would have to attempt to develop new versions of our products and enhance our platforms capabilities to work with those new platforms. These development efforts may require significant engineering, marketing, and sales resources, all of which would affect our business and operating results. Any failure of our platforms capabilities to operate effectively with future infrastructure platforms, technologies, and software platforms could reduce the demand for our platform. If we are unable to respond to these changes in a cost-effective manner, our products may become less marketable and less competitive or obsolete, and our business may be harmed. Moreover, our platform is highly technical and complex and, for example, our delivery products rely on knowledge of the Varnish Configuration Language ("VCL") to utilize many features of this platform. Potential developers may be unfamiliar or opposed to working with VCL and therefore decide to not adopt our platform, which may harm our business. Failure to effectively develop and expand our marketing and sales capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform. We have historically benefited from word-of-mouth and other organic marketing to attract new customers. Through this word-of-mouth marketing, we have been able to build our brand with relatively low marketing and sales costs. This strategy has allowed us to build a substantial customer base and community of users who use our products and act as advocates for our brand and our platform, often within their own corporate organizations. However, our ability to further increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our edge cloud platform will significantly depend on our ability to expand our marketing and sales operations. We plan to continue expanding our sales force and strategic partners, both domestically and internationally. We also plan to continue to dedicate significant resources to sales, marketing, and demand-generation programs, including various online marketing activities as well as targeted account-based advertising. The effectiveness of our targeted account-based advertising has varied over time and may vary in the future. All of these efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources and if they fail to attract additional customers our business will be harmed. We have also used a strategy of offering free trial versions of our platform in order to strengthen our relationship and reputation within the developer community by providing these developers with the ability to familiarize themselves with our platform without first becoming a paying customer. However, these developers may not perceive value in the additional benefits and services we offer beyond the free trial versions of our platform and may choose not to pay for those additional benefits. Moreover, some existing paying customers may choose to convert to the free version of our platform. Most trial accounts do not convert to paid versions of our platform, and to date, only a few users who have converted to paying customers have gone on to generate meaningful revenue. If our other lead generation methods do not result in broader market acceptance of our platform and the users of trial versions of our platform do not become, or are unable to convince their organizations to become, paying customers, or if paying customers choose to convert to the free versions of our platform, we will not realize the intended benefits of this strategy, and our business will be harmed. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel, including sales representatives, sales managers, and sales engineers, with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and may take significant time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, if at all, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. In addition, particularly if we continue to grow rapidly, new members of our sales force will have relatively little experience working with us, our platform, and our business model. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, our sales personnel do not reach significant levels of productivity in a timely manner, or our sales personnel are not successful in acquiring new customers or expanding usage by existing customers, our business will be harmed. The markets in which we participate are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our business will be harmed. The market for cloud computing platforms, particularly enterprise grade products, is highly fragmented, competitive, and constantly evolving. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect that the competitive environment in which we compete will remain intense going forward. Legacy CDNs, such as Akamai, Limelight, EdgeCast (part of Verizon Digital Media), Level3, and Imperva (for security), and small business-focused CDNs, such as Cloudflare, StackPath, and Section.io, offer products that compete with ours. We also compete with application and API security vendors like Akamai, Cloudflare, Imperva, Amazon Web Services and F5 (Shape), with cloud providers who are starting to offer compute functionality at the edge like Amazons CloudFront, AWS Lambda, and Google Cloud Platform, as well as traditional 31 data center and appliance vendors like F5, Citrix, A10 Networks, Cisco, Imperva, Radware, and Arbor Networks, who offer a range of on-premise solutions for load balancing, WAF, and DDoS. Some of our competitors have made or may make acquisitions or may enter into partnerships or other strategic relationships that may provide more comprehensive offerings than they individually had offered. Such acquisitions or partnerships may help competitors achieve greater economies of scale than us. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships, or strategic relationships. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including: our platforms functionality, scalability, performance, ease of use, reliability, security availability, and cost effectiveness relative to that of our competitors products and services; our global network coverage and availability; our ability to utilize new and proprietary technologies to offer services and features previously not available in the marketplace; our ability to identify new markets, applications, and technologies; our ability to attract and retain customers; our brand, reputation, and trustworthiness; our credibility with developers; the quality of our customer support; our ability to recruit software engineers and sales and marketing personnel; our ability to protect our intellectual property; and our ability to identify opportunities for acquisitions and strategic relationships and successfully execute on them, including our acquisition of Signal Sciences. We face substantial competition from legacy CDNs, small business-focused CDNs, cloud providers, traditional data center, and appliance vendors. In addition, existing and potential customers may not use our platform, or may limit their use, because they pursue a do-it-yourself approach by putting in place equipment, software, and other technology products for content and application delivery within their internal systems; enter into relationships directly with network providers instead of relying on an overlay network like ours; or implement multi-vendor policies to reduce reliance on external providers like us. Our competitors vary in size and in the breadth and scope of the products and services offered. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established customer relationships and installed customer bases, larger marketing budgets, and greater resources than we do. While some of our competitors provide a platform with applications to support one or more use cases, many others provide point-solutions that address a single use case. Other potential competitors not currently offering competitive applications may expand their product offerings, and our current customers may develop their own products or features, to compete with our offerings. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, and customer requirements. An existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our platform. In addition to application and technology competition, we face pricing competition. Some of our competitors offer their applications or services at a lower price, which has resulted in pricing pressures. Some of our larger competitors have the operating flexibility to bundle competing applications and services with other offerings, including offering them at a lower price or for no additional cost to customers as part of a larger sale of other products. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully and competition could result in the failure of our platform to achieve or maintain market acceptance, the market for our edge cloud platform may grow more slowly than we anticipate, any of which could harm our business. 32 If we fail to maintain and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our customer base will be impaired and our business, results of operations and financial condition may suffer. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand is important to continued market acceptance of our existing and future products, attracting new customers, and retaining existing customers. We also believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market increases. Successfully maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts, our ability to provide reliable products that continue to meet the needs of our customers at competitive prices, our ability to maintain our customers trust, our ability to continue to develop new functionality and products, and our ability to successfully differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. Additionally, our brand and reputation may be affected if customers do not have a positive experience with our partners services. Our brand promotion activities may not generate customer awareness or yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, our business may be harmed. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify and integrate, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, and dilute stockholder value . On October 1, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Signal Sciences. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are completed. In addition, we have limited experience in acquiring other businesses and we may not successfully identify desirable acquisition targets or, when we acquire additional businesses, such as Signal Sciences, we may not be able to integrate them effectively following the acquisition. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results, may cause unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims, and may not generate sufficient financial returns to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisitions. We may also incur significant, and sometimes unanticipated, costs in connection with these acquisitions or in integration with our business. In addition, if an acquired business, such as Signal Sciences, fails to meet our expectations or we do not realize sufficient value, our business may be harmed. Further, it is possible that there could be a loss of our or any acquired company's key employees and customers, disruption of either companys or both companies ongoing businesses or unexpected issues, higher than expected costs and an overall post-completion process that takes longer than originally anticipated. Specifically, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in combining any companys, including Signal Sciences, operations with ours in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition so the combined company performs as the parties hope: combining the companies corporate functions; combining their business with our business in a manner that permits us to achieve the synergies anticipated to result from the acquisition, the failure of which would result in the anticipated benefits of the acquisition not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; maintaining existing and new agreements with customers, service providers, and vendors; determining whether and how to address possible differences in corporate cultures, management philosophies and strategies relating to channels, resellers, and partners; integrating the companies administrative and information technology infrastructure; developing products and technology that allow value to be unlocked in the future; and evaluating and forecasting the financial impact of the acquisition transaction, including accounting impacts. 33 Failure to address any of the above listed issues could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. In addition, at times the attention of certain members of our management and resources may be focused on completion of the acquisition and integration planning of the businesses of the two companies and diverted from day to day business operations, which may disrupt our ongoing business and the business of the combined company. For example, certain members of our management team and other personnel have spent significant time on the acquisition and integration of Signal Sciences. We have previously been and may in the future be involved in class-action lawsuits and other litigation matters that are expensive and time-consuming. If resolved adversely, lawsuits and other litigation matters could seriously harm our business. We have previously been and may in the future be subject to litigation such as putative class action and shareholder derivative lawsuits brought by stockholders. We anticipate that we will be a target for lawsuits in the future, as we have been in the past. For example, on August 27, 2020 and September 15, 2020, we and certain of our officers were named as defendants in putative securities class action purportedly brought on behalf of holders of our Class A common stock. These two securities class actions were consolidated, and on December 21, 2021, the consolidated class action was voluntarily dismissed with prejudice. On December 28, 2020 and February 2, 2021, certain of our officers and directors were named as defendants in shareholder derivative actions. These two shareholder derivative actions were consolidated, and on January 3, 2022, the consolidated derivative action was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice. Any litigation to which we are a party may result in an onerous or unfavorable judgment that may not be reversed on appeal, or we may decide to settle lawsuits on similarly unfavorable terms. Any such negative outcome could result in payments of substantial monetary damages and accordingly our business could be seriously harmed. The results of lawsuits and claims cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the final outcome, defending these claims, and associated indemnification obligations, are costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees, and we may receive unfavorable preliminary, interim, or final rulings in the course of litigation, which could seriously harm our business. Health epidemics, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our partners and customers operate. The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. As certain of our customers or potential customers experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue resulting from the spread of COVID-19, they have and may continue to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or payment extensions, or seek renegotiation of their contracts. In addition, a portion of our revenue is related to usage of our platform in connection with live events, such as sporting events, that have continued to be impacted. Usage of our platform fluctuated following the implementation of preventative measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of COVID-19, and we cannot predict how usage levels will continue to be impacted by these preventative measures. There is no assurance that customers will continue to use our platform, or to the same extent, as the COVID-19 pandemic begins to taper off or when it has ended. As a result, it has been difficult to accurately forecast our revenues or financial results, especially given that the near and long term impact of the pandemic remains uncertain. Our results of operations could be materially below our forecasts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, or cause our stock price to decline. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, many state, local, and foreign governments have put in place restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. Such restrictions, or the perception that further restrictions could occur, have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellation or postponement of events, among other effects that impacted productivity and disrupted our operations and those of our partners and customers. For example, we experienced delays in the ramping of new traffic due to travel and data center restrictions in South Asia that delayed network build outs and the timing of customer code freezes, each affected in part due to COVID-19-related issues. In addition, our suppliers have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has reduced the availability or resulted in delays, and may continue to reduce the availability or result in delays, of parts and components to us. Our offices have remained temporarily closed since March 2020, and we have taken other precautionary measures, such as instituting protocols and guidelines for Fastly-related travel and shifting to hosting virtual Fastly-sponsored events in lieu of in-person events. We may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or which we determine are in our best interests. While much of our operations can be performed remotely, certain activities such as expanding and maintaining our network of POPs around the world often require personnel to be on-site, and our ability to carry out these activities has been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted if our employees or local data center personnel are not able to travel. In addition, travel restrictions have affected our ability to conduct audits of our data centers and facilities, 34 requiring us to use alternative procedures to the standard on-site visit. Any inability to complete these audits could affect our compliance certifications and cause customers to reduce or cease using our services. In addition, for activities that may be conducted remotely, there is no guarantee that we will be as effective while working remotely because our team is dispersed and many employees and their families have been negatively affected, mentally or physically, by the COVID-19 pandemic. Decreased effectiveness and availability of our team could adversely affect our results due to slow-downs in our sales cycles and our customer ramping and onboarding process, delays in recruiting and onboarding efforts, delays in our entry into customer contracts, delays in addressing performance issues, delays in product development, delays and inefficiencies among various operational aspects of our business, including our financial organization, or other decreases in productivity that could seriously harm our business. Moreover, our finance organizations ability to ensure that we comply with the requirements of Section 404 may be impaired in the future, including the ability of our registered public accounting firm to issue an attestation report on managements assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we may decide to postpone or cancel planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business as a result of the spread of COVID-19, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, and may reduce our ability to access additional capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. The ultimate duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately forecasted at this time. These developments include the severity and transmission rate of the disease, the emergence of new variants, the actions of governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and vaccines, the impact on economic activity and the impact of these and other factors. We do not yet know how businesses, customers, or our partners will operate in a post COVID-19 environment. There may be additional costs or impacts to our business and operations, including when we are able to return to our offices and resume in-person activities, travel, and events. In addition, there is no guarantee that a future outbreak of this or any other widespread epidemics will not occur, or that the global economy will recover, either of which could harm our business. We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our customers growing needs. If we are not able to grow efficiently, our business could be harmed. As usage of our edge cloud computing platform grows and as the breadth of use cases for our platform expands, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our platform architecture, integrating with third-party applications and maintaining infrastructure performance. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our processes and procedures that support our growing customer base, including increasing our number of POPs around the world and investments in systems, training, and customer support. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could cause impaired system performance and reduced customer satisfaction. These issues could reduce the attractiveness of our platform to customers, resulting in decreased sales to new customers, lower renewal rates by existing customers, the issuance of service credits, or requested refunds, which would hurt our revenue growth and our reputation. Even if we are able to upgrade our systems and expand our staff, any such expansion will be expensive and complex, and require the dedication of significant management time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies or operational failures as a result of our efforts to scale our cloud infrastructure. We cannot be sure that the expansion and improvements to our cloud infrastructure will be effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all, and such failures would harm our business. We may have insufficient transmission bandwidth and colocation space, which could result in disruptions to our platform and loss of revenue. Our operations are dependent in part upon transmission bandwidth provided by third-party telecommunications network providers and access to colocation facilities to house our servers. There can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly when customers experience cyber-attacks. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including service outages, payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. In some regions, bandwidth providers have their own services that compete with us, or they may choose to develop their own services that will compete with us. These bandwidth providers may become unwilling 35 to sell us adequate transmission bandwidth at fair market prices, if at all. This risk is heightened where market power is concentrated with one or a few major networks. We also may be unable to move quickly enough to augment capacity to reflect growing traffic or security demands. Failure to put in place the capacity we require could result in a reduction in, or disruption of, service to our customers and ultimately a loss of those customers. Such a failure could result in our inability to acquire new customers demanding capacity not available on our platform. The nature of our business exposes us to inherent liability risks. Our platform and related applications, including our security solutions, are designed to provide rapid protection against web application vulnerabilities and cyber-attacks. However, no security product can provide absolute protection against all vulnerabilities and cyber-attacks. Our platform is subject to cyber-attacks, and the failure of our platform and related applications to adequately protect against these cyber-attacks may allow our customers to be attacked. Any adverse consequences of these attacks, and our failure to meet our customers expectations as they relate to such attacks, could harm our business. Due to the nature of our applications, we are potentially exposed to greater risks of liability for product or system failures than may be inherent in other businesses. Although substantially all of our customer agreements contain provisions that limit our liability to our customers, these limitations may not be sufficient, and we cannot assure you that these limitations will be enforced or the costs of any litigation related to actual or alleged omissions or failures would not have a material adverse effect on us even if we prevail. Our dedication to our values may negatively influence our financial results. We have taken, and may continue to take, actions that we believe are in the best interests of our customers, our employees, and our business, even if those actions do not maximize financial results in the short term. For instance, we do not knowingly allow our platform to be used to deliver content from groups that promote violence or hate, and that conflict with our values like strong ethical principles of integrity and trustworthiness, among others. In the past, we have removed customers from our platform who we believed took positions conflicting with these values, and we may continue to do so in the future. However, this approach may not result in the benefits that we expect, and our employees or third parties may disagree with our interpretation of our values, or take issue with how we execute on our values, which may result in us becoming a target for negative publicity, increased scrutiny, lawsuits, or network attacks, in which case our business could be harmed. Our growth depends in large part on the success of our partner relationships. We maintain a partner ecosystem of companies who build edge applications to integrate with our platform. We are dependent on these partner relationships to amplify our reach and provide our customers with enhanced value from our platform. Our future growth will be increasingly dependent on the success of our partner relationships, including their development of useful applications for our platform. If those partnerships do not provide these benefits or if our partners are unable to serve our customers effectively, we may need to allocate resources internally to provide these services or our customers may not realize the full value of our platform, which could harm our business. Moreover, our partners business partners may not completely align with our core values and therefore may do business with companies that we otherwise would not. Our association with these companies could damage our brand and reputation and potentially harm our business. We operate in an emerging and evolving market, which may develop more slowly or differently than we expect. If our market does not grow as we expect, or if we cannot expand our services to meet the demands of this market, our revenue may decline, or fail to grow, and we may incur operating losses. The market for edge computing is in an early stage of development. There is considerable uncertainty over the size and rate at which this market will grow, as well as whether our platform will be widely adopted. Our success will depend, to a substantial extent, on the widespread adoption of our platform as an alternative to other solutions, such as legacy CDNs, enterprise data centers, central cloud, and small business-focused CDNs. Some organizations may be reluctant or unwilling to use our platform for a number of reasons, including concerns about additional costs, uncertainty regarding the reliability, and security of cloud-based offerings or lack of awareness of the benefits of our platform. Moreover, many organizations have 36 invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional on-premise services into their businesses, and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to cloud-based services. Our ability to expand sales of our product into new and existing markets depends on several factors, including potential customer awareness of our platform; the timely completion of data centers in those markets; introduction and market acceptance of enhancements to our platform or new applications that we may introduce; our ability to attract, retain and effectively train sales and marketing personnel; our ability to develop relationships with partners; the effectiveness of our marketing programs; the pricing of our services; and the success of our competitors. If we are unsuccessful in developing and marketing our product into new and existing markets, or if organizations do not perceive or value the benefits of our platform, the market for our product might not continue to develop or might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which may harm our business. The estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and any real or perceived inaccuracies may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. Even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Third-party market opportunity estimates and our growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. The variables that go into the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, and there is no guarantee that any particular number or percentage of addressable companies or end-users covered by our market opportunity estimates will purchase our products at all or generate any particular level of revenues for us. Even if the market in which we compete meets the size estimates and growth forecasted, our business could fail to grow for a variety of reasons, including reasons outside of our control, such as competition in our industry. Usage of our platform accounts for substantially all of our revenue. We expect that we will be substantially dependent on our edge cloud platform to generate revenue for the foreseeable future. As a result, our operating results could suffer due to: any decline in demand for our edge cloud platform; the failure of our edge cloud platform to achieve continued market acceptance; the market for edge cloud computing services not continuing to grow, or growing more slowly than we expect; the introduction of products and technologies that serve as a replacement or substitute for, or represent an improvement over, our edge cloud platform; technological innovations or new standards that our edge cloud platform does not address; sensitivity to current or future prices offered by us or our competitors; our customers development of their own edge cloud platform; and our inability to release enhanced versions of our edge cloud platform on a timely basis. In addition, because substantially all of our revenue from usage is recognized during the term of the relevant contract upon usage, downturns or upturns in sales contracts are not immediately reflected in full in our operating results. If the market for our edge cloud platform grows more slowly than anticipated or if demand for our edge cloud platform does not grow as quickly as anticipated, whether as a result of competition, pricing sensitivities, product obsolescence, technological change, unfavorable economic conditions, uncertain geopolitical environment, budgetary constraints of our customers, or other factors, our business would be harmed. We expect fluctuations in our financial results and key metrics, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline significantly. 37 Our operating results, including revenue, gross margin and net income, as well as our key metrics, including our DBNER, NRR and LTM NRR, have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results and key metrics may not be meaningful or accurately measure our business. In addition to the other risks described herein, factors that may affect our operating results include the following: fluctuations in demand for or pricing of our platform; our ability to attract new customers; our ability to retain our existing customers; fluctuations in the usage of our platform by our customers, which is directly related to the amount of revenue that we recognize from our customers; fluctuations in customer delays in purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; changes in customers budgets and in the timing of their budget cycles and purchasing decisions; the timing of customer payments and any difficulty in collecting accounts receivable from customers; timing of new functionality of our existing platform; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; the amount and timing of payment for operating expenses, particularly research and development and sales and marketing expenses, including commissions; the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training, and integrating new employees; the effects of acquisitions or other strategic transactions; expenses in connection with acquisitions or other strategic transactions; our ability to successfully deploy POPs in new regions; general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate; the ability to maintain our partnerships; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or customers; significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the delivery and use of our platform; and awareness of our brand and our reputation in our target markets. 38 Additionally, certain large scale events, such as major elections and sporting events, can significantly impact usage of our platform, which could cause fluctuations in our results of operations. While increased usage of our platform during these events could result in increased revenue, these seasonal and one-time events could also impact the performance of our platform during those events and lead to a sub-optimal experience for some customers. Such annual and one-time events may cause fluctuations in our results of operations as they would impact both our revenue and our operating expenses. Any of the foregoing and other factors may cause our results of operations to vary significantly. Furthermore, if our quarterly results of operations or our guidance fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our Class A common stock could decline substantially, and our business could be harmed. For example, the trading price of our Class A common stock declined significantly after we provided our guidance for the first quarter and full year of 2022 on February 16, 2022 in our earnings release furnished on Form 8-K, which did not meet the expectations of securities analysts who followed our stock. We cannot assure you that our operating results or projected operating results will meet the expectations of market analysts or our investors. Our pricing models subject us to various challenges that could make it difficult for us to derive sufficient value from our customers, and we do not have sufficient history with our pricing models to accurately predict the optimal pricing necessary to attract new customers and retain existing customers. We generally charge our customers for their usage of our platform based on the combined total usage, as well as the features and functionality enabled. Additionally, once our product is purchased, customers can also buy a combination of our add-on products. We do not know whether our current or potential customers or the market in general will continue to accept this pricing model going forward and, if it fails to gain acceptance, our business could be harmed. We also generally purchase bandwidth from internet service providers and server colocation space from third parties based on expected usage from our customers. Moreover, if our customers use our platform in a manner that is inconsistent with how we have purchased bandwidth, servers, and colocation space, our business could be harmed. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices for our products and, as a result, we have in the past changed our pricing model and expect that we may need to do so in the future. As the market for our products matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing models as we have used historically. Pricing decisions may also impact the mix of adoption among our customers and negatively impact our overall revenue. Moreover, larger organizations may demand substantial price concessions. As a result, in the future we may be required to reduce our prices or develop new pricing models, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, financial position, and cash flow. Our sales and onboarding cycles with customers can be long and unpredictable, and our sales and onboarding efforts require considerable time and expense. The timing of our sales with our enterprise customers and related revenue recognition is difficult to predict because of the length and unpredictability of the sales cycle for these customers. In addition, for our enterprise customers, the lengthy sales cycle for the evaluation and implementation of our products may also cause us to experience a delay between expenses for such sales efforts and the generation of corresponding revenue. The length of our sales cycle for these customers, from initial evaluation to payment, can range from several months to well over a year and can vary substantially from customer to customer. Similarly, the onboarding and ramping process with new enterprise customers, or with existing customers that are moving additional traffic onto our platform, can take several months. As the purchase of our products can be dependent upon customer initiatives, our sales cycle can extend to even longer periods of time. Customers often view a switch to our platform as a strategic decision requiring significant investment and, as a result, frequently require considerable time to evaluate, test, and qualify our product offering prior to entering into or expanding a contract commitment. During the sales cycle, we expend significant time and money on sales and marketing and contract negotiation activities, which may not result in a completed sale. Additional factors that may influence the length and variability of our sales cycle include: the effectiveness of our sales force, particularly new salespeople and sales leadership, as we increase the size of our sales force and train our new salespeople to sell to enterprise customers; the discretionary nature of customers purchasing decisions and budget cycles; 39 customers procurement processes, including their evaluation of competing products; economic conditions and other factors affecting customer budgets; the regulatory environment in which our customers operate; integration complexity for a customer deployment; the customers familiarity with edge cloud computing platforms; evolving customer demands; selling new products to enterprise customers; and competitive conditions. Given these factors, it is difficult to predict whether and when a customer will switch to our platform. Given that it can take several months for our customers to ramp up their usage of our platform, during that time, we may not be able to generate enough revenue from a particular customer or that customer may not increase their usage in a meaningful way. Moreover, because the switching costs are fairly low, our customers are able to switch from our platform to alternative services relatively easily. As a result, actual usage could be materially below our forecasts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, or cause our stock price to decline. If our platform does not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our financial results and competitive position will suffer. To meet our customers rapidly evolving demands, we invest substantial resources in research and development of enhanced products to incorporate additional functionality or expand the use cases that our platform addresses. Maintaining adequate research and development resources, such as the appropriate personnel and development technology, to meet the demands of the market is essential. If we are unable to develop products internally due to inadequate or ineffective research and development resources, we may not be able to address our customers needs on a timely basis or at all. In addition, if we seek to supplement our research and development capabilities or the breadth of our products through acquisitions, such acquisitions could be expensive and we may not successfully integrate acquired technologies or businesses into our business. When we develop or acquire new or enhanced products, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to develop, market, promote, and sell the new offering. Therefore, when we develop or acquire and introduce new or enhanced products, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing or acquiring and bringing them to market. Our new products or enhancements and changes to our existing products could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of functionality and a failure to supply products that meet this demand in a timely fashion; defects, errors, or failures; negative publicity about our platforms performance or effectiveness; changes in the legal or regulatory requirements, or increased legal or regulatory scrutiny, adversely affecting our platform; emergence of a competitor that achieves market acceptance before we do; delays in releasing enhancements to our platform to the market; and 40 introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors. If our platform and any future enhancements do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, or if products and technologies developed by others achieve greater acceptance in the market, our business could be harmed. Beyond overall acceptance of our platform by our customers, it is important that we maintain and grow acceptance of our platform among the developers that work for our customers. We rely on developers to choose our platform over other options they may have, and to continue to use and promote our platform as they move between companies. These developers often make design decisions and influence the product and vendor processes within our customers. If we fail to gain or maintain their acceptance of our platform, our business would be harmed. We rely on third-party hosting providers that may be difficult to replace. We rely on third-party hosting services such as Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), Google, IBM Softlayer, Microsoft Azure, and other cloud providers that facilitate the offering of our platform. Some of these third-party hosting services offer competing products to ours and therefore may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. These providers may be unwilling to do business with us if they view our platform as a threat. Any loss of the right to use any of the hosting providers could impair our ability to offer our platform and harm our business until we are able to obtain alternative hosting providers. If we do not or cannot maintain the compatibility of our platform with third-party applications that our customers use in their businesses, our business will be harmed. Because our customers choose to integrate our products with certain capabilities provided by third-party providers, the functionality and popularity of our platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate our platform and applications with third-party applications. These third parties may change the features of their technologies, restrict our access to their applications, or alter the terms governing use of their applications in a manner that is adverse to our business. Such changes could functionally limit or prevent our ability to use these third-party technologies in conjunction with our platform, which would negatively affect adoption of our platform and harm our business. If we fail to integrate our platform with new third-party applications that our customers use, we may not be able to offer the functionality that our customers need, which would harm our business. We provide service level commitments under our customer agreements. If we fail to meet these contractual commitments, we could be obligated to provide credits for future service, or face contract termination with refunds of prepaid amounts, which could harm our business. Most of our customer agreements contain service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments, including failure to meet the uptime and delivery requirements under our customer agreements, we have in the past and may in the future be contractually obligated to provide the affected customers with service credits which could significantly affect our revenues in the periods in which the uptime and delivery failure occurs and the credits are applied. For example, as a result of platform interruptions in January 2021 and June 2021, certain of our affected customers with whom we have service level commitments were entitled to receive service credits. We could also face customer terminations with refunds of prepaid amounts, which could significantly affect both our current and future revenues. Any service level failures could harm our business. If we fail to offer high quality support, our business may be harmed . Our customers rely on our support team to assist them in deploying our products effectively and resolve technical and operational issues. High-quality support is important for the renewal and expansion of our agreements with existing customers. The importance of maintaining high quality support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with existing and new customers could suffer and our business could be harmed. Further, increased demand for customer support, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our business. In addition, as we continue to grow our operations and expand internationally, we will need to be able to provide efficient customer support that 41 meets our customers needs globally at scale and our customer support team will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support and documentation in multiple languages. Our failure to do so could harm our business. Risks Related to Employees and Managing Our Growth The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executive officers, software developers, sales personnel, product managers, and other key employees in our industry is intense. In particular, we compete with many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing, and managing cloud-based software, as well as for skilled sales, operations, and security professionals. In addition, we believe that the success of our business and corporate culture depends on employing people with a variety of backgrounds and experiences, and the competition for such diverse personnel is significant. The market for such talented personnel is competitive. This competitive situation has become exacerbated by the increase in employee resignations currently taking place throughout the United States, in part as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is commonly referred to as the great resignation. We have experienced significant unwanted employee attrition which we believe has been due to such competition, and we may continue to experience unwanted employee attrition in the future. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do and can frequently offer such personnel substantially greater compensation than we can offer, including, in some cases, large equity packages and cash incentive bonuses. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, experiences significant volatility, or increases such that prospective employees believe there is limited upside to the value of our equity awards, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. Moreover, we face significant competition in hiring and attracting qualified employees in all aspects of our business, and the recent move by companies to offer a remote or hybrid work environment may increase the competition for such employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our ability to maintain and enhance our platform, develop and deliver new products, fix bugs, support our existing customers, attract new customers, respond to competitive pressures, and otherwise execute our business plan would be harmed. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, including our senior management and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of such personnel, or of a significant number of our team members, could harm our business. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of senior management and key personnel, including Artur Bergman, our Chief Architect and Executive Chairman and Joshua Bixby, our Chief Executive Officer. There have been, and from time to time, there may continue to be, changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives and key employees, or the transition of executives within our business, which could disrupt our business. Some of our executive officers and members of our management team have been with us for a short period of time and we are continuing to develop key functions within various aspects of our business. We are also dependent on the continued service of our existing software engineers because of the complexity of our platform. Our senior management, including Mr. Bergman and Mr. Bixby, and key employees are employed on an at-will basis. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any member of our senior management or other key employees or that we would be able to timely replace members of our senior management or other key employees should any of them depart. The loss of one or more of our senior management or other key employees could harm our business. Our past rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth and, if we resume growing rapidly, we may not be able to manage our growth effectively. We have experienced substantial growth in various aspects of our business in prior periods. For example, as of December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019, our revenue was $354.3 million, $290.9 million, and $200.5 million, respectively. In addition, we are expanding, and expect to continue to expand in the future, our international operations. For example, from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021, our edge network increased from 40 to 51 markets and from 25 to 31 countries that are outside of the United States. We have also experienced significant growth in the number of customers, usage, and amount of data delivered across our platform. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our corporate culture, operational infrastructure, and management. Although our business has experienced significant growth 42 in the past, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will continue to grow at the same rate, or at all. Overall growth of our business depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: address new and developing markets, such as large enterprise customers outside the United States; retain our existing employees in this period of "great resignation"; recruit, hire, train, and manage additional qualified engineers and product managers; recruit, hire, train, and manage additional sales and marketing personnel; maintain and enhance our corporate culture; expand our international operations; establish more mature organizational designs and structures, with more skill, technical and leadership depth with experience scaling and expanding global businesses; implement and improve our administrative, financial and operational systems, procedures, and controls; attract new customers and increase our existing customers usage on our platform; expand the functionality and use cases for the products we offer on our platform; provide our customers with customer support that meets their needs; successfully identify and acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our products, such as our acquisition of Signal Sciences; and recruit experienced leaders and strategists to facilitate successful acquisitions and integrations. We may not successfully accomplish any of the above objectives. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: sales and marketing, including a significant expansion of our sales organization; our infrastructure, including POP deployments, systems architecture, management tools, scalability, availability, performance, and security, as well as disaster recovery measures; product development, including investments in our product development team and the development of new products and new functionality for our existing products; acquisitions or strategic investments; international expansion; and general administration, including increased legal and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These activities will require significant investments and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. There are no guarantees we will be able to grow our business in an efficient or timely manner, or at all. If we fail to manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our services and the efficiency of our operations could suffer, 43 which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we are unable to return to our prior level of growth, our business will be harmed. In addition, our past rapid growth may make it difficult to evaluate our future performance. Our ability to forecast our future results of operations is subject to a number of uncertainties. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our company as it grows, or if we are not able to accurately forecast future growth, our business would be negatively impacted. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, our success and our business may be harmed. We believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and that the critical nature of the products that we provide promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our employees. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to recruit and retain personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we grow and develop the systems and processes associated with being a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture. The recent increase in employee attrition we have experienced in part due to the ongoing great resignation has adversely affected our corporate culture, particularly now that our workforce has been fully virtual since March 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, while we have historically benefited from having a dispersed workforce, as we have grown and our resources have become more globally dispersed and our organizational management structures have become more complex, we have found it increasingly difficult to maintain these beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. In addition, we may seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies with differing corporate cultures that could be difficult to integrate. If we fail to maintain our company culture, our business may be harmed. Risks Related to Our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience in the future, seasonality in our business, and our operating results and financial condition may be affected by such trends in the future. We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in demand for our platform. For example, we have some customers who increase their usage and requests when they need more capacity during busy periods, especially in the fourth quarter of the year, and then subsequently scale back. We also host certain large scale events, such as major elections or sporting events, that may be seasonal or one-time which can cause revenue to fluctuate between the periods in which these events occur and subsequent periods. Since we have built our network to handle seasonal capacity fluctuations, we may not be able to reduce our capacity in a timely manner, and as such sustain more costs. We believe that the seasonal trends that we have experienced in the past may continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as we expand our sales to larger enterprises. To the extent we experience this seasonality, it may cause fluctuations in our operating results and financial metrics, and make forecasting our future operating results and financial metrics difficult. Additionally, we do not have sufficient experience in selling certain of our products to determine if demand for these products are or will be subject to material seasonality. Our current operations are international in scope and we plan on further geographic expansion, creating a variety of operational challenges. A component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customer base internationally. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the percentage of revenue generated from customers outside the United States was 27% of our total revenue. As of December 31, 2021, our edge network spans across 51 markets and 31 countries that are outside of the United States. Additionally, we have employees located throughout the world. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to address international markets but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 19% of our full-time employees were located outside of the United States. We expect that our international activities will grow over the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in existing and new international markets, which will require significant management attention and financial resources. In connection with such expansion, we may face difficulties including costs associated with, varying seasonality patterns, potential adverse movement of currency exchange rates, longer payment cycle difficulties in collecting accounts receivable in some countries, tariffs and trade barriers, a variety of regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to operate, adverse tax events, reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries, and a geographically and culturally diverse workforce and customer base. Failure to overcome any of these difficulties could harm our business. 44 Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including: changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions; greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; potential or unexpected changes in trade relations, regulations, or laws; increased regulatory inquiry or oversight; more stringent regulations relating to privacy and data security and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information, particularly in Europe; differing labor regulations, especially in Europe and Japan, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States., including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs; challenges to our corporate culture resulting from a dispersed workforce; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we chose to do so in the future; challenges related to providing support and developing products in foreign languages; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general market preferences for local vendors; potential tariffs and trade barriers; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection or difficulties enforcing our intellectual property; political instability or terrorist activities; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. 45 If any of the above risks materialize, it could harm our business and prospects. In addition, our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to further expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business may be harmed. Our ability to timely raise capital in the future may be limited, or may be unavailable on acceptable terms, if at all, and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our business, and debt or equity issued to raise additional capital may reduce the value of our Class A common stock. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through payments received from our customers, sales of equity and debt securities, and borrowings under our credit facilities. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business and may require additional funds. Our future capital requirements may vary materially from those currently planned and will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, market acceptance of our platform, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, strategic transactions, as well as overall economic conditions. For example, on October 1, 2020 we acquired Signal Sciences for an aggregate purchase price of $759.4 million, consisting of approximately $223.0 million in cash and 6,367,709 shares of our Class A common stock, including 896,499 shares which are restricted as they are subject to revesting conditions. The aggregate purchase price reflects the value of the net shares issued, which excludes the above mentioned shares that are restricted. We may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all and any additional financing will need to be in compliance with the terms of our Credit Agreement, dated as of February 16, 2021, by and among us as borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto, and Silicon Valley Bank as a lender, the issuing lender and the swingline lender, and as administrative agent and collateral agent for the lenders ("Credit Agreement"). If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our Class A common stock. Any debt financing we secure could involve additional restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we were to violate such restrictive covenants, we could incur penalties, increased expenses and an acceleration of the payment terms of our outstanding debt, which could in turn harm our business. Because our decision to issue securities in future offerings will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our Class A common stock and diluting their interests. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, and equity and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, those related to revenue, accounts receivable and related reserves, fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for business combinations, useful lives and realizability of long-lived assets including our goodwill and intangible assets, income tax reserves, and accounting for stock-based compensation. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our Class A common stock. Current and future indebtedness could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. 46 Our Credit Agreement with SVB contains, and any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, grant liens, pay dividends and make distributions, transfer property, make investments, and take other actions that may otherwise be in our best interests. In addition, our Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of at least 1:25 to 1:00 tested on a quarterly basis as well as a springing revenue growth covenant for certain periods if our consolidated adjusted quick ratio falls below 1.75 to 1:00 on the last day of any fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet these financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those covenants. In addition, a breach of a covenant under our Credit Agreement or any other current or future credit facility of ours may result in a cross-default under any such separate credit facility. If we seek to enter into one or more additional credit facilities in the future we may not be able to obtain debt financing on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Holders of our existing debt have, and holders of any future debt we may incur would have, rights senior to holders of common stock to make claims on our assets. In addition, the terms of our existing debt do, and the terms of any future debt could, restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our Class A common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms that are satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. We have identified three material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to remediate and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, and the market price of our Class A common stock may be seriously harmed. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in those internal controls. For example, we are required to perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 9 ("Section 404"). Our independent registered public accounting firm also needs to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We designed, implemented, and tested internal control over financial reporting required to comply with this obligation. That process is time-consuming, costly, and complicated. As further detailed in Item 9A in this report, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, 2019 and 2018, some of which were newly identified in the year ended December 31, 2021 and one was originally identified in prior years and remains partially unremediated for the year ended December 31, 2021. The material weaknesses related to the lack of sufficient qualified accounting resources, lack of timely and complete identification of internal-use software costs for capitalization, and a system implementation of our stock plan administration system. We previously reported a material weakness in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. The process of implementing an effective financial reporting system is a continuous effort that requires us to anticipate and react to changes in our business and the economic and regulatory environments and to expand significant resources to maintain a financial reporting system that is adequate to satisfy our reporting obligations. We continue to evaluate and take actions to improve our internal control over financial reporting. To remediate the material weakness related to a lack of sufficient, qualified finance and accounting resources commensurate with the complexity of the Company's operations and financial reporting requirements, we will continue to hire, retain and oversee qualified finance and accounting resources to support the Company, including external advisors when appropriate, and add enhanced quarterly reporting of the remediation measures and process to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. To remediate the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended September 30, 2021 related to our accounting for internal-use software costs, we will continue to enhance our process and expand our review controls to ensure complete and timely identification of internal use software costs subject to capitalization, implement additional training of finance, accounting and other Company personnel involved in this process, and work with qualified external advisors to support these efforts. To remediate the material weakness in internal control over financial reporting during the year ended December 31, 2021 related to the design of controls for system implementations associated with a migration of our stock plan administration system, we will update the design and review of controls for system implementations, continue to leverage internal expertise in systems implementation for the design of controls, and work with qualified external advisors to support these efforts. 47 We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date and plan to take will be sufficient to remediate the material weaknesses we identified or avoid the identification of additional material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate our existing material weaknesses or identify future material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, if we are unable to comply with the requirements of Section 404 or assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an unqualified opinion or expresses a qualified or adverse opinion about the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and the market price of our Class A common stock could be negatively affected. Moreover, any failure to remediate the material weaknesses, or the identification of new material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, could result in material misstatements in our financial statements that may continue undetected and cause us to fail to meet our reporting and financial obligations or incur significant additional costs to remediate the material weaknesses, each of which could harm our ability to raise capital on favorable terms in the future or otherwise have a negative impact on our financial condition. In addition, we could become subject to investigations by the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE"), the SEC, and other regulatory authorities, which could require additional financial and management resources. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes and controls. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls to effectively manage our operations and growth. We may not be able to successfully implement and scale improvements to our systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our operating results. For example, we may not be able to effectively monitor certain extraordinary contract requirements or provisions that are individually negotiated by our sales force as the number of transactions continues to grow. In addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions, or fraud. We may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes, and controls or in connection with third-party software, which could impair our ability to offer our platform to our customers in a timely manner, causing us to lose customers, limit us to smaller deployments of our products, or increase our technical support costs. Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. U.S. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"), the SEC and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results for periods prior to and subsequent to such change, and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. Market practices with respect to these new disclosures are continuously evolving, and securities analysts and investors may not fully understand the implications of our disclosures or how or why they may differ from similar disclosures by other companies. Any additional new accounting standards could have a significant effect on our reported results. If our reported results fall below analyst or investor expectations, our stock price could decline. Risks Related to Laws, Regulations, and the Global Economy Failure to comply with United States and foreign governmental laws and regulations could harm our business. Our business is subject to regulation by various federal, state, local, and foreign governments. If we do not comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations due to the failure of our customers to comply with these laws, we could face direct liability or delivery of content by our platform may be blocked by certain governments. In certain jurisdictions, these regulatory requirements may be more stringent than those in the United States. For example, in June 2020, China passed a national security law for Hong Kong that imposes criminal liability for the violation of content regulations, it is currently not clear how broadly such legislation will be interpreted or applied in relation to our customers or our business, and additional developments in our understanding of the application of this law could cause us to remove our POP from Hong Kong. Noncompliance with applicable regulations or requirements could subject us to investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, civil and criminal penalties, injunctions, or other collateral consequences. If any governmental sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business could be harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a significant diversion of managements attention and resources and an increase in professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could harm our business. 48 If the United States government prohibits our current or potential customers from doing business with us, whether through policy, regulations or laws, we could face direct liability or our delivery of content by our platform may be blocked. For example, in the current environment of economic trade negotiations and tensions between the Chinese and the United States governments, the United States government has expressed concerns about the ability of companies operating in China to do business in the United States or with United States companies. As a result, we could lose the ability to contract with current or potential customers and usage of our platform may decrease by affected customers, which could harm our business and reputation. For example, our largest customer during the year ended December 31, 2020 had strong business ties to China and significantly reduced its usage of our platform. We believe this was in response to various actions taken by the United States and other governments against them. Even in the absence of new restrictions or trade actions imposed by the United States or other governments, our customers that operate in China, target China as a market, or that have strong business ties to China, may take actions to reduce dependence on our platform, which could harm our business. We are subject, or may become subject, to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly those related to privacy, data protection, infrastructure, and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business, by resulting in litigation, fines, penalties, or adverse publicity and reputational damage, and other adverse consequences that may negatively affect the value of our business and decrease the price of our Class A common stock. Compliance with such laws could also result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit sales of our products. We receive, store, process, collect, generate, use transfer, disclose, make accessible, protect, secure, dispose of, transmit, and share personal information and other data from and about actual and prospective customers and users, in addition to our employees and service providers. In addition, our customers use our platform to collect personally identifiable information, personal health information, and personal financial information from their end-users. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, such as the United States Federal Trade Commission ("FTC"), and various state, local, and foreign agencies. Our data handling also is subject to contractual obligations, internal and external privacy and security policies, guidance, industry standards, and other obligations that govern the processing of personal information by us and on our behalf. Additionally, we are, or may become, subject to various other laws and regulations around the world with respect to the internet related to, among other things, content liability, security requirements, critical infrastructure designations, internet resiliency, law enforcement access to information, net neutrality, data localization requirements, and restrictions on social media or other content, any of which can have a material impact on our business. Domestically, states have also begun to introduce more comprehensive privacy legislation, including data breach notification laws, personal information privacy laws, and consumer protection laws. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (CCPA) affords consumers expanded privacy protections. The CCPA gives California residents, among other things, expanded rights to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA also allows for statutory fines for noncompliance (up to $7,000 per violation), as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. It is anticipated that the CCPA will be expanded substantially on January 1, 2023, when the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA) comes into effect. The CPRA among other things, establishes a new California Protection Agency to implement and enforce the CPRA, which could increase the risk of enforcement actions. The CCPA marks a trend toward more stringent privacy, data protection, and information security legislation in the United States. Privacy, data protection, and information security laws have been proposed at the federal, state, and local levels that, if passed, could increase our potential liability, increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our business. For example, recently Virginia passed the Consumer Data Protection Act and Colorado passed the Colorado Privacy Act, both of which differ from the CPRA and become effective in 2023. Additionally, several states and localities have enacted measures related to the use of artificial intelligence (AI") and machine learning in products and services. The laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security are evolving, can be subject to significant change and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. In addition, the United States or foreign jurisdictions may establish new laws or regulations regarding the internet or online services. These new laws and regulations may affect our products and infrastructure, which could cause us to incur substantial costs to comply, expose us to regulatory scrutiny, criminal or civil liability, require us to fundamentally change our products or operations, or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. If we become subject to new privacy, data protection, and information security laws at the state level, the risk of enforcement action against us could increase because we may become subject to additional obligations, and the number of individuals or entities that can initiate actions against us may increase (including individuals and state actors). 49 In addition, an increasing number of foreign laws and regulations apply to privacy, data protection, and information security. For example, the EU GDPR, the U.K. GDPR, Brazils General Data Protection Law (Lei Geral de Proteo de Dados Pessoais or LGPD) (Law No. 13,709/2018), Canadas Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) and Canadas Anti-Spam Legislation (CASL), and Chinas Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) impose strict requirements for processing the personal information of individuals. European legislative proposals and existing laws and regulations apply to cookies and similar tracking technologies, electronic communications, and marketing. In the EU and the UK, regulators are increasingly focusing on compliance with requirements related to the online behavioral advertising ecosystem. It is anticipated that the ePrivacy Regulation and national implementing laws will replace the current national laws that implement the ePrivacy Directive that governs electronic communications. Compliance with these laws may require us to make significant operational changes, limit the effectiveness of our marketing activities, divert the attention of our technology personnel, adversely affect our margins, and subject us to liabilities. Furthermore, there is a proposed regulation in the EU related to AI that, if adopted, could impose onerous obligations related to the use of AI-related systems that may require us to change our business practices. Under the EU GDPR and U.K. GDPR, government regulators may impose restrictions or injunctions on data processing, and fines of up to 20 million euros (17.5 million for the U.K. GDPR) or 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater. Further, individuals may initiate litigation related to our processing of their personal information. Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal information transfer laws, which could make it more difficult to transfer information across jurisdictions (such as transferring or receiving personal information that originates in the EU). Existing mechanisms that may facilitate cross-border personal information transfers may change or be invalidated. For example, absent appropriate safeguards or other circumstances, the EU GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal information to countries outside of the European Economic Area (EEA) which the European Commission does not consider as providing an adequate level of protection of personal information, such as the United States. The European Commission recently released a set of Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) that are designed to be a valid mechanism by which entities can transfer personal information out of the EEA. Currently, the SCCs are a valid mechanism to transfer personal information, but impose obligations onto parties relying on them such as to conduct transfer impact assessments to determine whether additional security measures are necessary to protect the transferred personal information. Moreover, due to potential legal challenges, uncertainty exists regarding whether the SCCs will remain a valid mechanism for transfers of personal information out of the EEA. In addition, laws in Switzerland and the UK similarly restrict transfers of personal information outside of those jurisdictions to countries such as the United States. Certain countries outside Europe (e.g. Russia, China, Brazil) have also passed or are considering laws requiring local data residency or otherwise impeding the transfer of personal information across borders, any of which could increase the cost and complexity of doing business. If we cannot implement a valid compliance mechanism for cross-border data transfers, we may face increased exposure to regulatory actions, substantial fines, and injunctions against processing or transferring personal information from Europe or other foreign jurisdictions. The inability to import personal information to the United States could significantly and negatively impact our business operations, limiting our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to such cross-border data transfer or localization laws, or requiring us to increase our personal information processing capabilities and infrastructure in foreign jurisdictions at significant expense. The scope and interpretation of the laws that are or may be applicable to us are often uncertain and may be conflicting as a result of the rapidly evolving regulatory framework for privacy and internet issues worldwide. For example, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users and other third parties are currently being tested by a number of claims, including actions based on invasion of privacy and other torts, unfair competition, copyright and trademark infringement, and other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched, the ads posted, or the content provided by users. Moreover, our global platform outage in June 2021 has increased our public profile and resulted in more frequent interest in our company by regulators. This outage, or any additional outages, may draw additional scrutiny or focused legislation from regulators. As a result of the laws that are or may be applicable to us, and due to the sensitive nature of the information we collect, we have implemented policies and procedures to preserve and protect our data and our customers data against loss, misuse, corruption, misappropriation caused by systems failures, unauthorized access, or misuse. If our policies, procedures, or measures relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, or customer communications fail to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations, or industry standards, we may be subject to governmental enforcement actions, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, penalties, and negative publicity which could cause our application providers, customers, and partners to lose trust in us, and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 50 In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates, and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that may apply to us. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations, rules, and other standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws, rules, regulations, and other actual or alleged legal obligations, such as contractual or self-regulatory obligations, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the functionality of our platform. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits, and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our software, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Preparing for and complying with these obligations requires significant resources and may necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal information on our behalf. Any failure or perceived failure by us or third parties upon whom we rely to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal, or contractual obligations, industry standards, or regulatory guidance relating to privacy or data security, may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions (including, for example, a ban by EU Supervisory Authorities), litigation, fines and penalties, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, orders to destroy or not use personal information or adverse publicity, and could cause our customers and partners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Our obligation to assist our customers in their compliance with laws, regulations, and policies, like data processing and data protection requirements under the EU GDPR and U.K GDPR may also result in government enforcement actions litigation, fines and penalties, or adverse publicity. Future laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations or any changed interpretation of existing laws or regulations could impair our ability to develop and market new functionality and maintain and grow our customer base and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing, or disclosure of data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of our customers, partners, or end-users for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to incur additional costs or modify our platform, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new functionality. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain products, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect the growth of our business. Furthermore, any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our operating results. Our sales to highly regulated organizations and government entities are subject to a number of challenges and risks. We sell to customers in highly regulated industries such as financial services, insurance, and healthcare, as well as to various governmental agency customers, including state and local agency customers, and foreign governmental agency customers. Sales to such entities are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Selling to such entities can be highly competitive, expensive, and time-consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. Government contracting requirements may change and in doing so restrict our ability to sell into the government sector until we comply with the revised requirements. Government demand and payment for our offerings are affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our offerings. Further, highly regulated and governmental entities may demand shorter contract terms or other contractual provisions that differ from our standard arrangements, including terms that can lead those customers to obtain broader rights in our offerings than would be standard. Such entities may have statutory, contractual, or other legal rights to terminate contracts with us or our partners due to a default or for other reasons, and any such termination may harm our business. In addition, these governmental agencies may be required to publish the rates we negotiate with them, which could harm our negotiating leverage with other potential customers and in turn harm our business. The success of our business depends on customers continued and unimpeded access to our platform on the internet. Our customers must have internet access in order to use our platform. Some internet providers may take measures that affect their customers ability to use our platform, such as degrading the quality of the content we transmit over their lines, giving that content lower priority, giving other content higher priority than ours, blocking our content entirely, or attempting to charge their customers more for using our platform. 51 In January 2018, the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, repealed the network neutrality rules adopted during the Obama Administration, which barred internet service providers from blocking or slowing down access to online content, protecting services like ours from such interference. The 2018 decision was largely affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit, subject to a remand to consider several issues raised by parties that supported network neutrality, and in November 2020 the FCC affirmed its decision to repeal the rules. Petitions for reconsideration of this decision are pending. President Biden supported restoration of the network neutrality rules during his Presidential campaign, and such action is supported by the current Democratic FCC commissioners. In addition, a number of states have adopted or are adopting or considering legislation or executive actions that would regulate the conduct of broadband providers. A federal court judge denied a request for injunction against Californias state-specific network neutrality law, and as a result, California began enforcing that law. Trade associations representing internet service providers appealed the district courts ruling denying the preliminary injunction, and the appeal was denied on January 28, 2022. This decision could be appealed to the full court of appeals or the Supreme Court, or the parties could return to the trial court for further proceedings to determine whether a permanent injunction should be granted. We cannot predict whether the FCC order or other state initiatives will be enforced, modified, overturned, or vacated by legal action of the court, federal legislation, or the FCC. To the extent network operators attempt to interfere with our platform, absent network neutrality rules, attempt to interfere with our services, extract fees from us to deliver our platform, or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. Within such a regulatory environment, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our domestic and international growth, cause us to incur additional expense, or otherwise harm our business. At the same time, re-adoption of network neutrality rules could affect the services used by us and our customers by restricting the offerings made by internet service providers or reducing their incentives to invest in their networks. Such actions could limit or reduce the quality of internet access services and have an adverse impact on the quality of the services we provide to our customers. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal and/or civil liability and harm our business. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United States domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the United States Travel Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies and their employees and third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments, or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we increase our international sales and business and sales to the public sector, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our platform and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable laws, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery, or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution or other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal litigation, our business could be harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Enforcement actions and sanctions could further harm our business. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may harm our business. 52 Our effective tax rate could be adversely impacted by several factors, including: Changes in the relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; Changes in tax laws, tax treaties, and regulations or the interpretation of them, including the Tax Act; Changes to our assessment about our ability to realize our deferred tax assets that are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic and political environments in which we do business; The outcome of current and future tax audits, examinations, or administrative appeals; and Limitations or adverse findings regarding our ability to do business in some jurisdictions. Should our effective tax rate rise, our business could be harmed. We could be required to collect additional sales taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities that may increase the costs our clients would have to pay for our offering and harm our business. An increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. Additionally, the Supreme Court of the United States recently ruled in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al ("Wayfair") that online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the buyers state. In response to Wayfair, or otherwise, states or local governments may adopt, or begin to enforce, laws requiring us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. A successful assertion by one or more states requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect some taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. The imposition by state governments or local governments of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state sellers could also create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors and decrease our future sales, which could harm our business. Historically, we have not collected such taxes from our customers and have therefore recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue to implement our sales tax collection mechanisms and start collecting these taxes from our customers. However, delays in implementing our sales tax collection mechanisms and changing tax laws could result in us incurring additional expenses that we may not be able to pass onto our customers. Adverse tax laws or regulations could be enacted or existing laws could be applied to us, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We operate and are subject to taxes in the United States and numerous other jurisdictions throughout the world. Changes to federal, state, local, or international tax laws on income, sales, use, indirect, or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances on multinational corporations are currently being considered and have recently been proposed by the United States and other countries where we do business. These contemplated legislative initiatives include, but are not limited to, changes to transfer pricing policies and definitional changes to permanent establishment that could be applied solely or disproportionately to services provided over the internet. These contemplated tax initiatives, if finalized and adopted by countries, may ultimately impact our effective tax rate and could adversely affect our sales activity resulting in a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows. In addition, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations, or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified, or applied adversely to us (possibly with retroactive effect), which could require us to pay additional tax amounts, fines or penalties, and interest for past amounts. The additional tax obligations could relate to our taxes or obligations to report or withhold on customer taxes. We could take steps to collect customer related taxes, but if we are unsuccessful in collecting such 53 taxes from our customers, we could be held liable for such costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results and cash flows. Further, if our customers must pay additional fines or penalties, it could adversely affect demand for our services. On December 22, 2017, President Trump signed into law H.R. 1, An Act to provide for reconciliation pursuant to titles II and V of the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018, informally titled the Tax Act, which significantly revises the Code. The Tax Act, among other things, reduces the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, limits the tax deduction for interest expense to 30% of adjusted taxable income (except for certain small businesses), limits the deduction for net operating losses carried forward from taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of current year taxable income, eliminates net operating loss carrybacks, imposes a one-time tax on offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, eliminates United States tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), allows immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and modifies or repeals many business deductions and credits. Notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall impact of the Tax Act is uncertain and our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the Tax Act. The impact of the Tax Act on holders of our Class A common stock is also uncertain and could be adverse. More recently, on March 18, 2020, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act ("FFCR Act"), and on March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") were each enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The FFCR Act and the CARES Act contain numerous income tax provisions, such as relaxing limitations on the deductibility of interest and the use of net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. In December 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ("CAA") was signed into law. The CAA included additional funding through tax credits as part of its economic package for 2021. The Company evaluated these items in its tax computation and determined that the items do not have a material impact on the Companys financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021. Future regulatory guidance under the FFCR Act, the CARES Act, as well as under the Tax Act, or other executive or Congressional actions in the United States (including, for example, if the Made in America tax plan released in March 2021 were to become law) remain forthcoming, and such guidance could ultimately increase or lessen the impact on our business and financial condition. It is also possible that Congress will enact additional legislation in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, some of which could materially impact our operations and financial results. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to this legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in or holding our Class A common stock. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. Our net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities because of their limited duration or because of restrictions under United States tax law. Our NOLs generated in tax years ending on or prior to December 31, 2017 are only permitted to be carried forward for 20 years under applicable United States tax law. Under the Tax Act, our federal NOLs generated in tax years ending after December 31, 2017 may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such federal NOLs is limited. It is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the Tax Act. In addition, under Section 382 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" is generally subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. We may have experienced ownership changes in the past and may experience ownership changes in the future as a result of subsequent shifts in our stock ownership (some of which shifts are outside our control). Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we were to achieve profitability. Our international operations may subject us to potential adverse tax consequences. We are expanding our international operations and staff to better support our growth into international markets. Our corporate structure and associated transfer pricing policies contemplate future growth into the international markets, and consider the functions, risks, and assets of the various entities involved in the intercompany transactions. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions may depend on: the application of the tax laws of the various jurisdictions, including the United States, to our international business activities; changes in tax rates; new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies; and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The taxing authorities of the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our methodologies 54 for pricing intercompany transactions pursuant to our intercompany arrangements or disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a challenge or disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest, and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows, and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our financial statements could fail to reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate such controls. Our products are subject to the United States export controls, including the Export Administration Regulations administered by the United States Commerce Department, and economic sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Treasury Department ("OFAC"), and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our products. These encryption products and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations. Furthermore, our activities are subject to the United States economic sanctions laws and regulations that generally prohibit the direct or indirect exportation or provision of products and services without the required export authorizations to countries, governments, and individuals and entities targeted by the United States embargoes or sanctions, except to the extent authorized by OFAC or exempt from sanctions. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may not always be possible, and, even if the export license is ultimately granted, the process may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. Violations of the United States sanctions or export control laws can result in significant fines or penalties, and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers could be imposed for criminal violations of these laws. Other countries also regulate the import and export of certain encryption products and technology through import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or could limit our customers ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products globally, or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. From time to time, various governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption products and technology, including the escrow and government recovery of private encryption keys. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, increased export and import controls, or change in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our sales contracts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore a majority of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency revaluation. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our platform to our customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the United States. These operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As these expenses become more material and if there are significant fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, the risk of not hedging or not hedging effectively could harm our business. The phase-out of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or the replacement of LIBOR with a different reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates. On July 27, 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (the "FCA"), the authority that regulates LIBOR, announced that after December 31, 2021, it would no longer compel banks to submit the rates required to calculate LIBOR. On March 5, 2021, the ICE Benchmark Administration, which administers LIBOR, and the FCA announced that all LIBOR settings would either cease to be provided by any administrator, or would no longer be representative, immediately after December 31, 2021 for all non-U.S. dollar LIBOR settings and one-week and two-month U.S. dollar LIBOR settings, and immediately after June 30, 2023 for 55 the remaining U.S. dollar LIBOR settings. The interest rate under our Credit Agreement is calculated based on LIBOR. No modification has yet been made to the interest rate under the Credit Agreement, but changes will be required in the future. Currently, it is anticipated that the new benchmark for our U.S. dollar borrowings will be the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR). The shift to SOFR from LIBOR is complex and may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. Unfavorable conditions in our industry or the global economy or reductions in information technology spending could harm our business. Our results of operations may vary based on the impact of changes in our industry or the global economy on us or our customers and potential customers. Current or future economic uncertainties or downturns could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, financial and credit market fluctuations, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, warfare, public health issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia Pacific region, or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments, including spending on information technology, which would harm our business. To the extent that our platform and our products are perceived by customers and potential customers as too costly, or difficult to deploy or migrate to, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general information technology spending. Also, our competitors, many of whom are larger and have greater financial resources than we do, may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our products. We cannot predict the timing, strength, or duration of any economic slowdown, instability, or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our proprietary rights, and any failure to adequately protect our rights could impair our competitive position and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue, and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, and contractual provisions in an effort to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. While we have issued patents in the United States and other countries and have additional pending patent applications, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages, or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Any of our patents, trademarks, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. There can be no guarantee that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products, or design around our patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and services that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer, and disclosure of our products may be unenforceable under the laws of jurisdictions outside the United States. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our platform. In order to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming, and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our 56 intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new products, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our products, or injure our reputation. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. If we fail to meaningfully protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business may be harmed. We may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and litigation relating to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may be required to defend against litigation claims by other companies based on allegations of infringement or other violations of their intellectual property rights. Many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources than us to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Therefore, we may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. In addition, we may be required to defend against litigation claims by patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing such third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop selling products impacted by the claim or injunction or cease business activities covered by such intellectual property, and may be unable to compete effectively. Any inability to license third-party technology in the future would have an adverse effect on our business and operating results, and would adversely affect our ability to compete. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers in the event of infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. We receive demands for such indemnification from time to time and expect to continue to do so. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, and damage our reputation and brand. Lawsuits are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and they divert managements time and attention. Although we carry insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits, and the results of any such actions may harm our business. Elements of our platform and our products use open source software, which may restrict the functionality of our platform and our products, or require that we release the source code of certain products subject to those licenses. Our platform incorporates software licensed under open source licenses. Such open source licenses typically require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open source software continue to be licensed under open source licenses. Few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. We rely on multiple software programmers to design our proprietary technologies, and we do not exercise complete control over the development efforts of our programmers and we cannot be certain that our programmers have not incorporated open source software into our proprietary products and technologies or that they will not do so in the future. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our platform and technologies and materially and adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our business. Provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, data protection, and other losses. 57 Our agreements with customers and other third parties generally include provisions under which we are liable or agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, data protection, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our platform, services, or other contractual obligations. Some of these agreements provide for uncapped liability for which we would be responsible, and some provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large liability payments could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them, and in case of an intellectual property infringement indemnification claim, we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our platform as a result of any such claims. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing customers and new customers and harm our business. Even when we have contractual protections against such customer claims, we may choose to honor a customers request for indemnification or otherwise seek to maintain customer satisfaction by issuing customer credits, assisting our customer in defending against claims, or in other ways. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. Historically, our stock price has been volatile. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our stock traded as high as $122.75 per share and as low as $33.55 per share, and from January 1, 2022 to February 25, 2022, our stock price has ranged from $36.61 per share to $16.41 per share. The market price of our Class A common stock may continue to be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control or are related in complex ways, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; decreased usage by one or more of our customers; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts or investors; changes in the pricing we offer our customers; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our platform or related products; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new offerings; publicity associated with network outages and problems; our involvement in litigation; changes in senior management or key personnel; the trading volume of our Class A common stock; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic, regulatory, and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory, and market conditions, may impact the market price of our Class A common stock. For example, in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we initially experienced an increase in the usage of our platform, and as a result, the trading price of our Class A common stock significantly increased, and has since experienced significant volatility, along with the broader market. Following the 58 announcement of our results for our third and fourth quarters of 2021, the trading price of our Class A common stock significantly decreased. There are no assurances that the trading price of our Class A common stock will recover to prior levels for any period of time. Moreover, the trading price of our Class A common stock could experience a significant decrease once the scope and impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is better understood. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our Class A common stock. In addition, extreme price and volume fluctuations in the stock markets have affected and continue to affect many technology companies stock prices. Often, their stock prices have fluctuated in ways unrelated or disproportionate to the companies operating performance. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention. Conversion of the Notes may dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders or may otherwise depress the price of our Class A common stock. In March 2021, we entered into a purchase agreement for the sale of an aggregate of $948.8 million principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 (the Notes). The conversion of some or all of the Notes may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Upon conversion of the Notes, we have the option to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our Class A common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. If we elect to settle our conversion obligation in shares of our Class A common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A common stock, any sales in the public market of our Class A common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our Class A common stock could depress the price of our Class A common stock. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the Notes, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt, including the Notes, and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. Regulatory actions and other events may adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of the Notes. We expect that many investors in, and potential purchasers of, the Notes will employ, or seek to employ, a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes. Investors would typically implement such a strategy by selling short the Class A common stock underlying the Notes and dynamically adjusting their short position while continuing to hold the Notes. Investors may also implement this type of strategy by entering into swaps on our Class A common stock in lieu of or in addition to short selling the Class A common stock. The SEC and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and taken certain actions, and may in the future adopt additional rules and take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our Class A common stock). Such rules and actions include Rule 201 of SEC Regulation SHO, the adoption by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the national securities exchanges of a Limit Up-Limit Down program, the imposition of market-wide circuit breakers that halt trading of securities for certain periods following specific market declines, and the implementation of certain regulatory reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the Notes to effect short sales of our Class A common stock, borrow our Class A 59 common stock or enter into swaps on our Class A common stock could adversely affect the trading price and the liquidity of the Notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repay or settle conversions of the Notes in whole or in part in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes. Holders of the Notes will have the right, subject to certain conditions and limited exceptions, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid special interest, if any, as described in the indenture governing the Notes. If our stock price is lower than the conversion price of the Notes on maturity, the holders of our Notes will not convert and we will have to repay those Notes in cash. In addition, upon conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our Class A common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted as described in the indenture governing the Notes. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repay or make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture governing the Notes or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. Such acceleration could result in our bankruptcy. In a bankruptcy, the holders of the Notes would have a claim to our assets that is senior to the claims of our equity holders. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of Notes will be entitled to convert their Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our Class A common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. For additional information regarding the conditional conversion feature of the Notes, see Note 9, Debt Instruments. Future sales and issuances of our capital stock or rights to purchase capital stock could result in dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause the price of our Class A common stock to decline. Future sales and issuances of our capital stock or rights to purchase our capital stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. For example, we may issue approximately 9.2 million shares of our Class A common stock upon conversion of the Notes, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. We may sell Class A common stock, convertible securities, and other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner as we may determine from time to time. If we sell any such securities in subsequent transactions, investors may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences, and privileges senior to those of holders of our Class A common stock. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. 60 As of December 31, 2021, we have outstanding a total of 118.9 million shares of Class A common stock. All of our outstanding shares are eligible for sale in the public market, other than shares and options held by directors, executive officers, and other affiliates that are subject to volume limitations under Rule 144 of the Securities Act, various vesting agreements, and shares that must be sold under an effective registration statement. Additionally, the shares of Class A common stock subject to outstanding options and restricted stock unit awards under our equity incentive plans and the shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become eligible for sale in the public market upon issuance, subject to applicable insider trading policies. The Notes will also become convertible at the option of the holders, subject to certain limitations and restrictions prior to March 15, 2026. Future sales also could cause the trading price of our Class A common stock to decline and make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our Class A common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, our Class A common stock price and trading volume could decline. Our stock price and trading volume are heavily influenced by the way analysts and investors interpret our financial information and other disclosures. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, delay publishing reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, regardless of accuracy, our Class A common stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class A common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. If the number of analysts that cover us declines, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease and our Class A common stock price and trading volume may decline. Even if our Class A common stock is actively covered by analysts, we do not have any control over the analysts or the measures that analysts or investors may rely upon to forecast our future results. Over-reliance by analysts or investors on any particular metric to forecast our future results may result in forecasts that differ significantly from our own. Regardless of accuracy, unfavorable interpretations of our financial information and other public disclosures could have a negative impact on our stock price. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates, for any of the reasons discussed above or otherwise, or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our Class A common stock or change their opinion of our Class A common stock, our stock price would likely decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay cash dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors and are restricted by the terms of our Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement permits the payment of cash dividends so long as, after giving effect to any such dividend, we maintain a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.50 to 1.00 and are otherwise in pro forma compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement. In addition, the Credit Agreement permits us to pay up to $10.0 million in cash dividends per fiscal year so long as, after giving effect to any such dividend, we are in pro forma compliance with all covenants under the Credit Agreement, including a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of at least 1.25 to 1.00. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. Such expenses have further increased now that we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the NYSE, and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Furthermore, the senior members of our management team do not have significant experience with operating a public company. As a result, our management and 61 other personnel have to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the timing of such costs. As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm also attests to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently have an internal audit group and have hired additional accounting and financial staff. We may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and update the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we fail to remediate our existing material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting or if we identify new material weaknesses, we will be unable to certify that our internal controls over financial reporting is effective. We and our independent registered public accounting firm identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, 2019 and 2018, some of which were newly identified in the year ended December 31, 2021 and one was originally identified in prior years and remains partially unremediated for the year ended December 31, 2021. The material weaknesses related to the lack of sufficient qualified accounting resources, the lack of timely and complete identification of internal-use software costs for capitalization, and system implementation of our stock plan administration system. While we are actively working on remediating these identified weaknesses, we may discover additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NYSE, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents, the indenture governing the Notes, and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our Class A common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, or our chief executive officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; 62 establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of the holders of a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock; and provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our management could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Certain provisions in the indenture governing the Notes may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, the indenture governing the Notes will require us, except as described therein, to repurchase the Notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder that converts its notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change. A takeover of us may trigger the requirement that we repurchase the Notes, increase the conversion rate, or both, which could make it costlier for a potential acquirer to engage in such takeover. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of us that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and, to the extent enforceable, the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, or our amended and restated bylaws; and any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal-affairs doctrine. This provision would not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act. Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring such a claim arising under the Securities Act against us, our directors, officers, or other employees in a venue other than 63 in the federal district courts of the United States of America. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. These exclusive-forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, all of which could harm our business. 64 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our corporate headquarters is located in San Francisco, California and consists of approximately 71,343 square feet of space under a lease that expires on July 31, 2027. We also maintain offices in Portland, Culver City, Denver, Pleasanton, and Tokyo. We lease all of our facilities and do not own any real property. We may add facilities as we grow our employee base and expand geographically. We believe that our facilities are sufficient to meet our needs for the immediate future, and that, should it be needed, suitable additional space will be available to accommodate expansion of our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies for discussion around our legal proceedings. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 65 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our Class A common stock has traded on The New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "FSLY" since May 17, 2019. Holders of Record As of December 31, 2021, there were 53 holders of record of our Class A and 0 holders of our Class B common stock. The number of beneficial stockholders is substantially greater than the number of holders of record because a large portion of our common stock is held through brokerage firms. Dividend Policy We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination to declare cash dividends will be made at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to applicable laws, and will depend on a number of factors, including our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, general business conditions, and other factors that our Board of Directors may deem relevant. In addition, the terms of our revolving credit facility place certain limitations on the amount of cash dividends we can pay, even if no amounts are currently outstanding. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act. We have presented below the cumulative total return to our stockholders between May 17, 2019 (the date our Class A common stock commenced trading on the NYSE) through December 31, 2021 in comparison to the S&P 500 Index and S&P 500 Information Technology Index. The graph assumes a $100 initial investment at the market close on May 17, 2019 which was the initial trading day of our Class A common stock, and the reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons are based on historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, the future performance of our Class A common stock. 66 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 67 Item 6. Reserved Not required. 68 ITEM 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. As used herein, "Fastly," "we," "our," "the Company" and similar terms include Fastly, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview Developers are reinventing the way we live, work, and play online. Yet they repeatedly encounter innovation barriers when delivering modern digital experiences. Expectations for digital experiences are at an all-time high; they must be fast, secure, and highly personalized. If they arent reliable, end-users simply take their business elsewhere. The challenge today is enabling developers to deliver a modern digital experience while simultaneously providing scale, security, and performance. We built our edge cloud platform to solve this problem. The edge cloud is an emerging category of Infrastructure as a Service ("IaaS") that enables developers to build, secure, and deliver digital experiences, at the edge of the internet. This service represents the convergence of the Content Delivery Network ("CDN") with functionality that has been traditionally delivered by hardware-centric appliances such as Application Delivery Controllers ("ADC"), Web Application Firewalls ("WAF"), Bot Detection, Distributed Denial of Service ("DDoS") and observability solutions. It also includes the emergence of a new, but growing, edge computing market which aims to move compute power and logic as close to the end-user as possible. The edge cloud uses the emerging cloud computing, serverless paradigm in which the cloud provider runs the server and dynamically manages the allocation of machine resources while offering flexibility and control to developers. When milliseconds matter, processing at the edge is an ideal way to handle highly dynamic and time-sensitive data. This has led to its acceptance and adoption by organizations who monetize or grow their user base with every millisecond saved. Organizations that want their websites to load faster for every user can benefit from processing at the edge. The edge cloud complements data center, central cloud, and hybrid solutions. Our mission is to fuel the next modern digital experience by providing developers with a programmable and reliable edge cloud platform that they adopt as their own. Organizations must keep up with complex and ever-evolving end-user requirements. We help them surpass their end-users expectations by powering fast, secure, and scalable digital experiences. We built a powerful edge cloud platform, designed from the ground up to be programmable and support agile software development. We believe our platform gives our customers a significant competitive advantage, whether they were born into the digital age or are just embarking on their digital transformation journey. Our platform consists of four key components: a programmable edge, a software-defined modern network, safety in depth, and a philosophy of customer empowerment. Our programmable edge provides developers with real-time visibility and granular control, where they can write and deploy code in a serverless environment and to push application logic to the edge. It provides tooling and templates to deploy some of the most commonly used workflows and leverages modern application delivery processes, thus freeing developers to innovate without constraints. Our software-defined modern network is built for the software-defined future. It is powerful, efficient, and flexible, designed to enable us to rapidly scale to meet the needs of the most demanding customers and never be a barrier to their growth. Our 184 terabit software-centric network is located across 71 markets as of December 31, 2021.We define markets as unique metropolitan areas where we have one or more Points of Presence ("POPs"). Our safety in depth approach integrates security into multiple layers of development: architecture, engineering, and operations. That's why we invest in building security into the fabric of our platform, alongside performance. We provide developers and security operations teams with a fast, safe environment to create, build, and run modern applications. Our platform provides developers and security operations teams with solutions that foster innovation without impacting performance. Finally, being developers ourselves, we empower customers to build great things while supporting their efforts through frictionless tools and a deeply technical support team that facilitates ongoing collaboration. 69 We serve both established enterprises, mid-market companies and technology-savvy organizations. Our customers represent a diverse set of organizations across many industries with one thing in common: they are competing by using the power of software to build differentiation at the edge. With our edge cloud platform, our customers are disrupting existing industries and creating new ones. For example, several of our customers have reinvented digital publishing by connecting readers through subscription models to indispensable content, helping people understand the world through deeply reported independent journalism. Our customers software applications use our edge cloud platform to deliver consistently excellent online shopping experiences, fast and more secure financial transactions, and broadcast quality live streaming on any device. The range of applications that developers build with our edge cloud platform continues to expand rapidly. So where do we go from here? Our vision is to create a trustworthy internet, where good thrives. We want all developers to have the ability to deliver the next transformative digital experience on a global scale. And because big ideas often start small, we love it when developers experiment and iterate on our edge cloud platform, coming up with exciting new ways to solve todays complex problems. We generate substantially all of our revenue from charging our customers based on their usage of our platform. Initially, customers typically choose to become platform customers, for which we charge fees based on their committed or actual use of our platform, as measured in gigabytes and requests. Many of our customers generate billings in excess of their minimum commitment. We also generate revenue from additional products as well as professional and other services, such as implementation. We charge a flat one-time or recurring fee for these additional products and services. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we also began offering subscriptions to access a unified security web application and application programming interface at a fixed rate. We focus our direct selling efforts on medium to large organizations as well as smaller companies that are exhibiting significant growth. We engage with and support these customers with our field sales representatives, account managers, and technical account managers who focus on customer satisfaction and drive expansion of their usage of our platform and products. These teams work with technical and business leaders to help our customers end-users receive the best possible digital experience, while also lowering our customers total cost of ownership. These direct selling efforts are reflected by our 445 enterprise customers as of December 31, 2021 that generated 88% of our total revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, up from 378 enterprise customers which generated 89% of our revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2020. Enterprise customers are defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the previous 12-month period. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER"), Net Retention Rate ("NRR") and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate ("LTM NRR") metrics measure the revenue growth from existing customers attributable to increased usage of our platform and features, and purchase of additional products and services. The financial results of Signal Sciences have been consolidated into our financial results and key metrics since October 1, 2020, the date of acquisition. Our DBNER was 120.9% and 143.6% for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Our NRR was 106.6% and 116.3% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our LTM NRR was 117.6% and 137.4% for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We believe the LTM NRR is supplemental as it removes some of the volatility inherent in a usage-based business model from the measurement of the NRR metric. We believe that an annual cohort analysis of Fastly's customers as depicted in the chart below, demonstrates the continued expansion of our customers' use of our platform. Once a customer begins to generate revenue for us, they tend to increase their usage of our platform, in particular in their second year. Customer accounts acquired in 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020 and 2021 are referred to as the 2017 Cohort, 2018 Cohort, 2019 Cohort, 2020 Cohort and 2021 Cohort, respectively. Our 2017 Cohort increased its revenue 2.3 times after its first year and has grown at approximately a 50% CAGR over the last four years. In 2017, we generated $5.6 million of revenue from the 2017 Cohort. Revenue from the 2017 Cohort grew to $16.8 million in 2018, representing 200% year-over-year growth. In 2018, we generated $11.2 million of revenue from the 2018 Cohort. Revenue from the 2018 Cohort grew to $34.4 million in 2019, representing 207% year-over-year growth. In 2019, we generated $9.1 million of revenue from the 2019 Cohort. Revenue from the 2019 Cohort grew to $47.7 million in 2020, 70 representing 424% year-over-year growth. Revenue from the 2020 Cohort grew to $28.9 million in 2021, representing 144% year-over-year growth. Summary of Revenue Generated by Customer Cohorts Over Time (in millions): Customers that have negotiated contracts with us generate a substantial majority of our revenue. These customers typically purchase one or more products, for which we charge a monthly recurring or one-time fee depending on the products selected. Some of these customers also choose to purchase various levels of account management and enhanced customer support for a monthly fee. Typically, the term of these contracts is 12 months and includes a minimum monthly billing commitment in exchange for more favorable pricing terms. Many of these customers generate billings in excess of their minimum commitment. In addition, customers can sign up online by providing their credit card information and agreeing to a minimum monthly fee. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2020, we also offer subscriptions to access a unified security web application and application programming interface at a fixed rate. The majority of our revenue is usage based and changes in usage by our largest customers can create volatility in our revenue. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to payment, can range from several months to well over a year and can vary substantially from customer to customer. Similarly, the onboarding and ramping process with new enterprise customers can take several months, as well as existing enterprise customers with new business, can take several months and can be subject to delays for unanticipated reasons. For example, we experienced delays in the ramping of new traffic due to travel and data center restrictions in South Asia that delayed network build outs and the timing of customer code freezes, each affected in part by COVID-19-related issues. The timing of new revenue from our sales efforts and changes in usage by our largest customers can make revenue difficult to predict. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our revenue was $354.3 million and $290.9 million, respectively. Our 10 largest customers generated an aggregate of 33% and 38% of our revenue in the 12 months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. We incurred a net loss of $222.7 million and $95.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Acquisition of Signal Sciences 71 On October 1 2020, we acquired Signal Sciences, for an aggregate purchase price of $759.4 million, consisting of approximately $223.0 million in cash and 6,367,709 shares of our Class A common stock, including 896,499 shares which are restricted as they are subject to revesting conditions. The aggregate purchase price reflects the value of the net shares issued, which excludes the above mentioned shares that are restricted. We also assumed all unvested and outstanding equity awards of Signal Sciences continuing employees as converted into our equity awards at the conversion ratio provided in the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization (the "Merger Agreement"), which became options to purchase 251,754 shares of our Class A common stock, with a value of $20.7 million related to the assumed unvested equity awards that are subject to future service conditions. We have included Signal Sciences in our results of operations as of the acquisition date, October 1, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the information presented in this section includes the contribution of Signal Sciences starting from October 1, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the results include the contribution of Signal Sciences for the full year. As a result, comparisons to the prior-year period may not be indicative of future results or future rates of growth. Please refer to Note 5Business Combination for further details on the acquisition of Signal Sciences. Adjustments subsequent to the release of earnings on February 16, 2022 Subsequent to our announcement of earnings and issuance of our press release, furnished in a Form 8-K on February 16, 2022, for the year ended December 31, 2021, we increased our Property and Equipment, net Other Current Liabilities by $6.9 million to accrue for additional assets received at year-end but not yet paid for or financed. This increased total assets, total current liabilities, total liabilities and total liabilities and stockholders' equity by $6.9 million. These adjustments update balances previously disclosed in our press release for the year ended December 31, 2021. Factors Affecting Our Performance Winning New Customers We are focused on continuing to attract new customers. Our customer base includes both large, established enterprises that are undergoing digital transformation and emerging companies spanning a wide array of industries and verticals. In both instances, developers within these companies often use and advocate the adoption of our platform by their companies. We also benefit from word-of-mouth promotion across the broader developer community. We will continue to invest in our developer outreach, leveraging it as a cost-efficient approach to attracting new customers. With our expanded security portfolio from the acquisition of Signal Sciences, other security products, and our edge computing capabilities we will increase our focus on brand awareness, public relations and analyst relations in efforts to help generate awareness and demand for these offerings. We will continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs, including various online marketing activities as well as targeted account-based advertising. We are continuing to bring new innovations to our edge cloud platform and software-defined modern network architecture, and are seeing an increased interest from customers in our programmable edge computing solution. This will require us to dedicate significant resources to further develop the market for our platform and differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. We will also need to expand, retain, and motivate our sales and marketing personnel in order to target our sales efforts at larger enterprises and senior management of these potential customers. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws on data localization and cross-border data transfers, and the evolving enforcement and interpretation of such laws has created uncertainty regarding data stored abroad and transferred across borders, which could impact customer growth and acquisition for customers and potential customers conducting business in Europe and elsewhere outside of the United States. We have encountered and may continue to encounter heightened concerns relating to privacy, data protection, and information security from customers and potential customers conducting business outside of the United States. Specifically, we have received more requests relating to EU privacy requirements, impacting the sales negotiation process, and we have had potential customers decline to do business with us due to privacy concerns related to updated interpretations of the laws applicable to transfers of personal information to the United States. For additional details, refer to "Item 1A.Risk Factors". 72 Expanding within our Existing Customer Base We emphasize retaining our customers and expanding their usage of our platform and adoption of our other products. Customers often begin with smaller deployments of one of our products and then expand their usage over time. Our platform includes a variety of offerings, such as load balancing, shielding, web security, and WAF. As our customers mature, we assist them in expanding their use of our platform, including the use of additional offerings beyond edge cloud delivery or security. As enterprises grow and experience increased traffic, their needs evolve, leading them to find additional use cases for our platform and expand their usage accordingly. In addition, given that customer acquisition costs are incurred largely for acquiring and initial onboarding, we gain operating leverage to the extent that existing customers expand their use of our platform and products. Our ability to retain our customers and expand their usage could be impaired for a variety of reasons, including a customer moving to another provider or reducing usage within the term of their contract to their minimum usage commitment. Even if our customers expand their usage of our platform, we cannot guarantee that they will maintain those usage levels for any meaningful period of time or that they will renew their commitments. The data localization and cross-border data transfer issues described above also impact current customers' increased usage of our products and services. In addition, we cannot be certain what actions the United States or another country's government may take with respect to certain of our customers that may adversely affect our ability to do business with our customers that operate in China, target China as a market or that have strong business ties to China. For example, our largest customer during the year ended December 31, 2020 had strong business ties to China and significantly reduced its usage of our platform. We believe this was in response to various actions taken by the United States and other governments against them. Further reductions in this customer's traffic levels could have an additional negative impact on our business. For additional details, refer to "Item 1A.Risk Factors". International Customer Growth We intend to continue expanding our efforts to attract customers outside of the United States by augmenting our sales teams and strategically increasing our presence in the number of markets in select international locations. As of December 31, 2021, our edge network spans across 51 markets and 31 countries that are outside of the United States. As of December 31, 2020, our edge network spans across 40 markets and 25 countries that are outside of the United States. Our international expansion, including our global sales efforts, continues to add increased complexity and cost to our business. This requires us to expand our sales and marketing capabilities outside of the United States, as well as increase the number of markets we have a presence in around the world to support our customers. Managing the administrative aspects of a global organization places a strain on our business and culture. Investing in Sales and Marketing Our customers have been pivotal in driving brand awareness and broadening our reach. While we continue to leverage our self-service approach to drive adoption by developers, we will continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts, with an increased focus on sales to enterprises globally. Utilizing our direct sales force, we have multiple selling points within organizations to acquire new customers and increase usage from our existing customers. We will continue to increase our discretionary marketing spend, including account based and brand spend, to drive the effectiveness of our sales teams. As a result, we expect our total operating expenses to increase as we continue to expand. Our investments in our sales and marketing teams are intended to help accelerate our sales, onboarding, and ramp cycles. These efforts will require us to invest significantly in financial and other resources. Furthermore, we believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. 73 Continued Investment in Our Platform and Network Infrastructure We must continue to invest in our platform and network infrastructure to maintain our position in the market. We expect our revenue growth to be dependent on an expanding customer base and continued adoption of our edge cloud delivery, security, and other products and services. In anticipation of winning new customers and staying ahead of our customers needs, we plan to continue to invest in order to expand the scale and capacity of our software-defined modern network, resulting in increased network service provider fees, which could adversely affect our gross margins if we are unable to offset these costs with revenue from new customers and increase revenue from existing customers. Our customers require constant innovation within their own organizations and expect the same from us. Therefore, we will continue to invest in resources to enhance our development capabilities and introduce new products and features on our platform. We believe that investment in research and development will contribute to our long-term growth but may also negatively impact our short-term profitability. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue was 36% and 26%, respectively. We may also seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, on October 1, 2020, we acquired Signal Sciences, a security software company that provides protection from web, API, and mobile security threats. Developers use our platform to build custom applications and require a state-of-the-art infrastructure to test and run these applications. We will continue to invest in our network infrastructure by strategically increasing our POPs. We also anticipate making investments in upgrading our technology and hardware to continue providing our customers a fast and secure platform. Our cash additions for investments in property and equipment for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 were $48.6 million and $49.0 million, respectively, representing 14% and 17% of our revenue in such periods. We expect our investment in property and equipment to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Our gross margins and operating results are impacted by these investments. As of December 31, 2021, our network is located in 71 markets across 32 countries. In the event that there are errors in software, failures of hardware, damages to a facility or misconfigurations of any of our serviceswhether caused by our own error, security breaches, third-party error, or natural disasterswe could experience lengthy interruptions in our platform as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly when customers experience cyber-attacks. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including service outages, payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. Uncertainty of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) Pandemic The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, many aspects of our business. As certain of our customers or potential customers experience downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations and revenue resulting from the spread of COVID-19, they have and may continue to decrease or delay their technology spending, request pricing concessions or payment extensions, or seek renegotiation of their contracts. In addition, a portion of our revenue is related to usage of our platform in connection with live events, such as sporting events, that have continued to be impacted. Usage of our platform fluctuated following the implementation of preventative measures to contain or mitigate the outbreak of COVID-19, and we cannot predict how usage levels will continue to be impacted by these preventative measures. There is no assurance that customers will continue to use our platform, or to the same extent, as the COVID-19 pandemic begins to taper off or when it has ended. As a result, it has been difficult to accurately forecast our revenues or financial results, especially given that the near and long term impacts of the pandemic remain uncertain. Our results of operations could be materially below our forecasts, which could adversely affect our results of operations, disappoint analysts and investors, or cause our stock price to decline. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, many state, local, and foreign governments have put in place restrictions in order to control the spread of the disease. Such restrictions, or the perception that further restrictions could occur, have resulted in business closures, work stoppages, slowdowns and delays, work-from-home policies, travel restrictions, and cancellation or postponement of events, among other effects that impacted productivity and disrupted our operations and those of our partners and customers. For example, we experienced delays in the ramping of new traffic due to travel and data center restrictions in South Asia that delayed network build outs and the timing of customer code freezes, each affected in part due to COVID-19-related issues. In addition, our suppliers have been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which has reduced the availability or 74 resulted in delays, and may continue to reduce the availability or result in delays, of parts and components to us. Our offices have remained temporarily closed since March 2020, and we have taken other precautionary measures, such as instituting protocols and guidelines for Fastly-related travel and shifting to hosting virtual Fastly-sponsored events in lieu of in-person events. We may take further actions that alter our operations as may be required by federal, state, or local authorities, or which we determine are in our best interests. While much of our operations can be performed remotely, certain activities such as expanding and maintaining our network of POPs around the world often require personnel to be on-site, and our ability to carry out these activities has been, and may continue to be, negatively impacted if our employees or local data center personnel are not able to travel. In addition, travel restrictions have affected our ability to conduct audits of our data centers and facilities, requiring us to use alternative procedures to the standard on-site visit. Any inability to complete these audits could affect our compliance certifications and cause customers to reduce or cease using our services. In addition, for activities that may be conducted remotely, there is no guarantee that we will be as effective while working remotely because our team is dispersed and many employees and their families have been negatively affected, mentally or physically, by the COVID-19 pandemic. Decreased effectiveness and availability of our team could adversely affect our results due to slow-downs in our sales cycles and our customer ramping and onboarding process, delays in recruiting and onboarding efforts, delays in our entry into customer contracts, delays in addressing performance issues, delays in product development, delays and inefficiencies among various operational aspects of our business, including our financial organization, or other decreases in productivity that could seriously harm our business. Moreover, our finance organizations ability to ensure that we comply with the requirements of Section 404 may be impaired in the future, including the ability of our registered public accounting firm to issue an attestation report on managements assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. Furthermore, we may decide to postpone or cancel planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business as a result of the spread of COVID-19, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. In addition, while the potential impact and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business in particular may be difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, and may reduce our ability to access additional capital, which could negatively affect our liquidity in the future. The ultimate duration and extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately forecasted at this time. These developments include the severity and transmission rate of the disease, the emergence of new variants, the actions of governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and vaccines, the impact on economic activity and the impact of these and other factors. We do not yet know how businesses, customers, or our partners will operate in a post COVID-19 environment. There may be additional costs or impacts to our business and operations, including when we are able to return to our offices and resume in-person activities, travel, and events. In addition, there is no guarantee that a future outbreak of this or any other widespread epidemics will not occur, or that the global economy will recover, either of which could harm our business. For additional details, refer to our risk factors included in Part I. Item 1A. of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Key Business Metrics We regularly review a number of metrics, including the key metrics presented in the table below, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of the key metrics and other measures discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. Certain of our key metrics and financial results were favorably impacted by increases in traffic driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and our largest customer in 2020. In 2021, we saw some return to normal seasonal patterns of traffic and growth and an impact to our revenue from an outage in June 2021. We have 75 included Signal Sciences in our results of operations as of the acquisition date, October 1, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the results include the contribution of Signal Sciences for the full year. As of December 31, 2021 2020 Number of customers (as of end of period) 2,804 2,326 Number of enterprise customers (as of end of period) 445 378 Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER") (12 months) 120.9% 143.6% NRR (as of end of period) 106.6% 116.3% LTM NRR 117.6% 137.4% Number of Customers We believe that the number of customers is an important indicator of the adoption of our platform. Our definition of a customer consists of identifiable operating entities with which we have a billing relationship in good standing, from which we recognized revenue during the period. An identifiable operating entity is defined as a company, a government entity, or a distinct business unit of a larger company that has a relationship with Fastly through direct sale or through one of our reseller partners where charges are identified on an end-customer basis. In cases where charges are identified through a reseller partner rather than on an end-customer basis, we record a single customer record for the reseller partner. Our customer groupings may be impacted by changes to our customers business, including any impact from merger and acquisition activities, internal business reorganizations leading to operational and decision making changes, and corporate structure changes such as subsidiary consolidation and reorganization that may arise in the future. In addition to our paying customers, we also have trial, developer, nonprofit and open source programs, and other non-paying accounts that are excluded from our customer count metric. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, we had 2,804 and 2,326 customers, respectively. Number of Enterprise Customers Historically our revenue has been driven primarily by a subset of customers who have leveraged our platform substantially from a usage standpoint. These enterprise customers are defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the previous 12-month period. As of December 31, 2021, we had 445 enterprise customers which generated 88% of our revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2020, we had 378 enterprise customers which generated 89% of our revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2020. We believe the recruitment and cultivation of enterprise customers is critical to our long-term success. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate ("DBNER") Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is dependent upon our ability to increase the number of new customers and usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and other products and services by our existing customers. We track our growth, in part, by measuring DBNER. Our DBNER increases when customers increase their usage of our platform or purchase additional products, and declines when they reduce their usage, benefit from lower pricing on their existing usage, or curtail their purchases of additional products. We believe DBNER is a key metric in measuring the long-term value of our customer relationships and our ability to grow our revenue through increased usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and purchase of additional products and services by our existing customers. However, our calculation of DBNER indicates only expansion among continuing customers and does not indicate any decrease in revenue attributable to former customers, which may differ from similar metrics of other companies. We calculate DBNER by dividing the revenue for a given period from customers who remained customers as of the last day of the given period ("current period") by the revenue from the same customers for the same period measured one year prior ("base period"). The revenue included in the current period excludes revenue from (i) customers that churned after the end of the base period and (ii) new customers that entered into a customer agreement after the end of the base period. For example, to calculate our DBNER for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, we divide (i) revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2021, from customers that entered into a customer agreement prior to January 1, 2020, and that remained customers as of December 31, 2021, by (ii) revenue for the 12 months ended December 31, 2020 from the same set of customers. 76 For the 12 months ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 our DBNER was 120.9% and 143.6%, respectively. We believe that an annual cohort analysis of our customers demonstrates customer expansion. Once a customer begins to generate revenue for us, they tend to increase their usage of our platform, in particular in their second year. Customer accounts acquired in 2019, 2020, and 2021 are referred to as the 2019 Cohort, 2020 Cohort, and 2021 Cohort, respectively. As described above, our customers tend to increase their usage of our platform in their second year, which is typically followed by more modest increases in usage, if any, in ensuing years. For example, the DBNER for the 2019 Cohort was 580.8% for the year ended December 31, 2020. However, the DBNER for the 2019 Cohort was 150.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021, which generally represents their third year as a customer, depending on when they entered into a customer agreement. DBNER may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing associated with new customer accounts. We expect our DBNER for individual cohorts to decrease once customers in that cohort have used our platform for more than two years and become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and the revenue that we use to calculate DBNER. We separately monitor customer retention and churn on an annual basis by measuring our annual revenue retention rate, which we calculate by multiplying the final full month of revenue from a customer that terminated its contract with us (a "Churned Customer") by the number of months remaining in the same calendar year ("Annual Revenue Churn"). The quotient of the Annual Revenue Churn from all of our Churned Customers divided by our annual revenue of the same calendar year is then subtracted from 100% to determine our annual revenue retention rate. We believe this calculation is helpful in that it is based on the amount of revenue that we would expect to have received in the remaining portion of a particular period had a customer not terminated its contract with us. It is not indicative of the actual revenue contribution from churned customers in past periods. By comparing this amount to actual revenue for the period, we are able to assess our ability to replace terminated revenue by generating revenue from new and continuing customers. Our annual revenue retention rate for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was 99.2% and 99.3%, respectively. Net Retention Rate ("NRR") and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate ("LTM NRR") Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is also dependent upon our ability to retain our existing customers. In addition to measuring expansion using DBNER, NRR and LTM NRR also allow us to track customer retention which demonstrates the stickiness of our edge cloud platform. Our NRR measures the net change in monthly revenue from existing customers in the last month of the period (the current" period month) compared to the last month of the same period one year prior (the prior" period month) and includes revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn, revenue expansion due to billing increases, but excludes revenue from new customers. We calculate Net Retention Rate by dividing the revenue from the current period month by the revenue in the prior period month. For the last month of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 our NRR was 106.6% and 116.3%, respectively. Our LTM NRR is intended to be supplemental to our NRR as we believe that it removes some of the volatility that is inherent in a usage-based business model. We calculate LTM NRR by dividing the total customer revenue for the prior twelve-month period (prior 12-month period) ending at the beginning of the last twelve-month period (LTM period) minus revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn, plus revenue expansion due to billing increases during the LTM period from the same customers by the total prior 12-month period revenue. For the last month of the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 our LTM NRR was 117.6% and 137.4%, respectively. Key Components of Statement of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform. We also earn fixed-rate recurring revenue from security and other products and services. Our usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform are generally billed in arrears. Our security products are primarily annual subscriptions that are billed in advance. Many customers have tiered usage pricing which reflects discounted rates as usage increases. For most contracts, usage charges are determined on a monthly basis based on actual usage within the month and do not impact usage charges within any other month. Our larger customers often enter into contracts that contain minimum billing commitments and reflect discounted pricing associated with such usage levels. 77 We define United States revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid for bandwidth, peering, and colocation. Cost of revenue also includes personnel costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our customer support and infrastructure employees, and non-personnel costs, such as amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs, depreciation of our network equipment and amortization of our intangible assets. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on bandwidth use, in some cases subject to minimum commitments, which may be underutilized. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including utilization of our network, the timing of investments in the expansion of our network, which can increase depreciation and colocation costs in advance of expected demand, our ability to manage our network service providers and cloud infrastructure-related fees, the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs, changes in personnel costs to provide customer support and operate the network, and customer pricing. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include cloud infrastructure fees for development and testing, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products including new use cases, improving the efficiency and performance of our network, and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Over the long term we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees, salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities, costs related to our customer conferences, including our Altitude conference, professional services fees, amortization of our intangible assets and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our company, platform and products, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. We plan to increase our investment in sales and marketing by hiring additional sales and marketing personnel, expanding our sales channels, driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events. Over the long term, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our accounting, finance, legal, trust, human resources and administrative support personnel, and executives. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to legal and other professional services fees, sales and other taxes, an allocation of our general overhead expenses, credit loss expense and acquisition-related costs. We expect that we will incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business, our operation as a public company, and to meet the increased compliance requirements associated with our international expansion. Our general and administrative expenses include a significant amount of sales and other taxes to which we are subject based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Historically, we have not collected such taxes from our customers and 78 have therefore recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue to implement our sales tax collection mechanisms and start collecting these taxes from our customers. Overall, we expect our general and administrative expenses to continue to increase on an absolute basis and may increase as a percentage of revenue in future periods. Over the long term, we expect our general and administrative expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. Income Taxes Our income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and state minimum income taxes in the United States. In 2020, our income tax benefit was primarily the result of a reduction in the valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. In connection with the acquisition of Signal Science in 2020, we recorded a net deferred tax liability which provides an additional source of taxable income to support the realization of the pre-existing deferred tax assets. We have a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. Results of Operations In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, please refer to Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. Certain of our key metrics and financial results were favorably impacted by increases in traffic driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and our largest customer in 2020. In 2021, we saw some return to normal seasonal patterns of traffic and growth and an impact to our revenues from an outage in June 2021. We have included Signal Sciences in our results of operations as of the acquisition date, October 1, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the information presented in this section includes the contribution of Signal Sciences starting from October 1, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the results include the contribution of Signal Sciences for the full year. As a result, comparisons to the prior-year period may not be indicative of future results or future rates of growth. Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Consolidated Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 354,330 $ 290,874 Cost of revenue (1) 167,002 120,007 Gross profit 187,328 170,867 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 126,859 74,814 Sales and marketing (1) 152,645 101,181 General and administrative (1) 126,845 102,084 Total operating expenses 406,349 278,079 Loss from operations (219,021) (107,212) Interest income 1,282 1,628 Interest expense (5,245) (1,549) Other income (expense), net 356 (279) Loss before income tax expense (benefit) (222,628) (107,412) Income tax expense (benefit) 69 (11,480) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (222,697) $ (95,932) __________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: 79 Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 7,227 $ 3,889 Research and development 47,019 17,112 Sales and marketing 31,159 17,028 General and administrative 55,083 26,404 Total $ 140,488 $ 64,433 Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:* Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 47 41 Gross profit 53 59 Operating expenses: Research and development 36 26 Sales and marketing 43 35 General and administrative 36 35 Total operating expenses 115 96 Loss from operations (62) (37) Interest income 1 Interest expense (1) (1) Other income (expense), net Loss before income taxes (63) (37) Income tax expense (benefit) (4) Net loss attributable to common stockholders (63) % (33) % __________ * Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. Revenue Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 354,330 $ 290,874 22 % 2021 compared to 2020 Revenue was $354.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $290.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $63.5 million, or 22%. Revenue growth was driven by impact of a full year of revenue generated from products acquired from the acquisition of Signal Sciences, which increased by $31.7 million before considering the effect of purchase accounting adjustments, and the further adoption of our modern edge platform and products. Revenue growth was offset by a $4.2 million impact of purchase price accounting adjustments, which represents a $2.2 million increase from 2020. 80 We had 2,804 customers and 445 enterprise customers as of December 31, 2021. We had 2,326 customers and 378 enterprise customers as of December 31, 2020. This represents an increase of 478, or 21%, in customers and 67, or 18%, in enterprise customers from December 31, 2020. Approximately 93% of our revenue in the year ended December 31, 2021 was driven by usage on our platform, primarily from existing customers, as revenue from new customers contributed less than 10% of our revenue. The proportion of the revenue contribution between new and existing customers is consistent with typical customer behavior as customers tend to contribute more revenue over time as their use of the platform increases. The remainder of our revenue was generated by our other products and services, including support and professional services. United States revenue was $260.4 million and 73% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, and $196.5 million and 68% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. This represents an increase of $63.9 million, or 32%. International revenue was $93.9 million and 27% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, and $94.3 million and 32% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. This represents an increase of $(0.4) million, or 0%. We had 2,111 domestic customers and 691 international customers as of December 31, 2021. Cost of Revenue Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 167,002 $ 120,007 39 % 2021 compared to 2020 Cost of revenue was $167.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $120.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $47.0 million, or 39%. This is primarily due to an increase in bandwidth costs of $11.1 million, an increase in colocation costs of $6.4 million, and an increase in other network costs of $5.4 million to support the increased traffic on our platform. There was an increase in depreciation and amortization expense of $17.0 million as we continue to invest in our platform, which includes a $7.5 million increase in amortization of intangible assets acquired from the Signal Sciences acquisition. There was also a $7.9 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation, due to the increased headcount to support the growth of our business. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Gross profit $ 187,328 $ 170,867 10 % Gross margin 53 % 59 % (6) % 2021 compared to 2020 Gross profit was $187.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $170.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $16.5 million, or 10%. Gross margin was 53% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 59% for the year ended December 31, 2020, an decrease of 6%. The decrease in gross margin reflects a decrease in network utilization in 2021 compared to 2020 related to increased traffic in 2020 driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and the company's largest customer in 2020 and the impact of an increase in investment in infrastructure and capacity made in advance of expected demand. The decline in gross margin also reflects the impact of an increase of $2.2 million of revenue reductions for purchase accounting adjustments and additional $7.5 million of amortization of intangible assets related to our acquisition of Signal Sciences. The impact of these adjustments was a reduction in gross margin of 2.7%. 81 Operating Expenses Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 126,859 $ 74,814 70 % Sales and marketing 152,645 101,181 51 % General and administrative 126,845 102,084 24 % Total operating expenses $ 406,349 $ 278,079 46 % Percentage of revenue: Research and development 36 % 26 % (10) % Sales and marketing 43 % 35 % (8) % General and administrative 36 % 35 % (1) % Research and development2021 compared to 2020 Research and development expenses were $126.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $74.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $52.0 million, or 70%. This is primarily due to an increase of $56.1 million of personnel-related costs, such as salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount and new equity awards granted to employees. The increase in personnel-related costs was primarily driven by the impact of a full year of Signal Sciences expenses. There was also an increase of $3.6 million in hosted data service and other SaaS costs as we continue to continue to develop new products and features for our next-generation edge computing solutions. These increases are partially offset by a $9.6 million increase in capitalization of costs related to the development of internal-use software. Sales and marketing2021 compared to 2020 Sales and marketing expenses were $152.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $101.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $51.5 million, or 51%. This is primarily due to a $33.1 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, sales commissions, benefits, and stock-based compensation, due to an increase in headcount and new equity awards granted to employees. The increase in personnel-related costs was primarily driven by the impact of a full year of Signal Sciences expenses. We also had an increase of $8.4 million in external marketing spend primarily related to various marketing campaigns and an increase of $8.3 million in amortization expense related to certain intangible assets acquired in connection with the Signal Sciences acquisition. General and administrative 2021 compared to 2020 General and administrative costs were $126.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $102.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $24.8 million, or 24%. This is primarily due to an increase of $36.1 million in personnel related costs, such as salaries, benefits, and stock-based compensation due to an increase in headcount and new equity awards granted to employees, increases of $1.6 million in software licenses, and $1.3 million in business insurance costs. These increases are partially offset by a $13.4 million decrease in professional services spending primarily driven by a decrease in acquisition-related expenses of $16.9 million, and a $1.5 million decrease in expense for credit losses. 82 Other Income and Expense Interest Income Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Interest income $ 1,282 $ 1,628 (21) % 2021 compared to 2020 Interest income was $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $0.3 million, or 21%. This decrease is due to a reduction in interest rates on our cash balances and investments portfolio. Interest Expense Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Interest expense $ 5,245 $ 1,549 239 % 2021 compared to 2020 Interest expense was $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $3.7 million, or 239%. This increase is primarily due the amortization of debt issuance costs related to the convertible debt and revolving credit facility. Other income(expense), net Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 356 $ (279) 228 % 2021 compared to 2020 Other income, net was $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to other expense, net, of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a change of $0.6 million, or 228%. The increase is mainly driven by our foreign currency transaction gains and losses between the periods. Income Tax Expense (Benefit) Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2020 to 2021 Change (in thousands) Income tax expense (benefit) $ 69 $ (11,480) (101) % 83 2021 compared to 2020 Income tax expense was 0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to income tax benefit of for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $11.6 million or 101% decrease is primarily due to a one-time tax benefit from the reduction in our valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. In connection with the acquisition of Signal Science, we recorded a net deferred tax liability which provides an additional source of taxable income to support the realization of the pre-existing deferred tax assets. As a result a portion of our valuation allowance was released and we recorded a $13.0 million tax benefit in the year ended December 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1,056.8 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of bank deposits and money market funds held at major financial institutions and investment-grade commercial paper and corporate debt securities. As of December 31, 2021, we had $528.9 million of marketable securities classified as long term investments. On May 21, 2019, upon the completion of our IPO, we received net proceeds of $192.5 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, from sales of 12,937,500 shares of our Class A common stock in the IPO. The net proceeds include additional proceeds of $25.1 million, net of underwriters' discounts and commissions, from the exercise of the underwriters' option to purchase an additional 1,687,500 shares of our Class A common stock. On May 26, 2020, we completed a follow-on public offering in which we sold 6,900,000 shares of Class A common stock, which included 900,000 shares sold pursuant to the exercise by the underwriters of an option to purchase additional shares, at the public offering price of $41.50 per share. We received net proceeds of $274.9 million, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions, from sales of our shares in the public offering. In March 2021, we entered into a purchase agreement for the sale of an aggregate of $948.8 million principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes due 2026 (the Notes). The Notes mature on March 25, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were approximately $930.0 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and transaction costs. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, payments received from customers, the net proceeds we received through sales of equity and debt securities and borrowings under our credit facilities. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations and capital expenditures. We also enter into finance leases to finance our infrastructure assets in co-location facilities that we directly lease and operate. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents balances, marketable securities, and our credit facilities, and the cash flows generated by our operations will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We have generated losses from operations in the past and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments we intend to make and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe we will meet longer-term expected future cash requirements and obligations, through a combination of cash flows from operating activities, available balances of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and available credit under our credit facilities. In addition, we may engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. As noted above, our Notes mature on March 25, 2026, and if we are required to repay the Notes or if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. As of December 31, 2021, we had $55.4 million of commitments for capital expenditures which will primarily be financed through finance leases under our existing under our existing agreements. Cash Collateralized Revolving Credit Agreement 84 We have a finance lease agreement with an equipment provider that provides financing for up to $90 million in network equipment. Individual leases have average an interest rate of 4.8% and terms of three years. The agreement provides for bargain purchase prices at the end of the terms. The amortization of leased assets is included in depreciation and amortization expense. On February 16, 2021, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facilities Agreement ("Credit Agreement") with Silicon Valley Bank for an aggregate commitment amount of $100.0 million. The Credit Agreement bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of LIBOR for the applicable interest period plus 1.75% - 2.00%, depending on the average daily outstanding balance of all loans and letters of credit under the Credit Agreement. Interest payments on outstanding borrowings are due on the last day of each interest period. The Credit Agreement has a commitment fee on the unused portion of the borrowing commitment, which is payable on the last day of each calendar quarter at a rate per annum of 0.20% - 0.25% depending on the average daily outstanding balance of all loans and letters of credit under the Credit Agreement. The agreement allows for use of an alternative interest rate. In addition, our Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of at least 1:25 to 1:00 tested on a quarterly basis as well as a springing revenue growth covenant for certain periods if our consolidated adjusted quick ratio falls below 1.75 to 1:00 on the last day of any fiscal quarte r. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Year ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands) Cash used in operating activities $ (38,482) $ (19,916) $ (31,303) Cash used in investing activities (794,511) (275,023) (87,678) Cash provided by financing activities 936,551 272,739 168,148 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $222.7 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $28.8 million of depreciation and amortization, $21.2 million of amortization related to acquired intangibles, $140.5 million of stock-based compensation expense, $26.9 million of lease amortization expense, amortization of deferred contract costs of $6.3 million and amortization of debt issuance costs of $3.2 million. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, there was an increase in accounts receivable of $14.6 million, primarily due to an increase in revenue and the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers and an increase of $15.2 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to pre-payments for software licenses. We also had $26.4 million of operating lease payments. This was partially offset by increases of $4.3 million in accrued expenses and $8.9 million in other liabilities due to timing of payments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $95.9 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $20.0 million of depreciation and amortization, $5.1 million of amortization related to acquired intangibles, $64.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, $21.8 million of lease amortization expense, amortization of deferred contract costs of $3.5 million and allowance for credit losses of $1.7 million. This was partially offset by $13.0 million in tax benefits related to release of valuation allowance related to deferred taxes associated with the Signal Sciences acquisition. With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, there was a decrease in accounts receivable of $9.3 million, primarily due to increased collections due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, and $22.7 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to pre-payments for software licenses. We also had $18.3 million of operating lease payments. This was partially offset by an increase of $22.0 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities due to timing of payments. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in operating activities consisted primarily of our net loss of $51.6 million adjusted for non-cash items, including $16.6 million of depreciation and amortization, $12.1 million of stock-based compensation expense, $2.3 million of amortization of deferred contract costs, $0.7 million of amortization of deferred rent, an increase in the fair value of our common stock warrants of $2.4 million, and amortization of debt issuance costs of $1.9 million. 85 With respect to changes in operating assets and liabilities, there was an increase in accounts receivable of $12.8 million, primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from certain of our larger customers, an increase in other long-term assets of $3.9 million due to the adoption of Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, and an increase of $2.7 million in prepaid expenses and other assets due to pre-payments for software licenses. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities was $794.5 million, primarily consisting of $928.2 million in purchases of marketable securities, $34.8 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network, $13.5 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software. This was offset by $184.6 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash used in investing activities was $275.0 million, primarily consisting of $269.1 million in purchases of marketable securities, $201.0 million of business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, $29.6 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network, $6.1 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software, and $1.8 million of purchases of intangible assets. This was offset by $232.0 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash used in investing activities was $87.7 million, primarily consisting of $191.0 million in purchases of marketable securities, $14.6 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network, and $4.9 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software. This was offset by $123.4 million of maturities of marketable securities. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the year ended December 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities was $936.6 million, primarily consisting of $930.8 million of proceeds from the issuance of the Notes, net of issuance costs, $8.1 million in proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan ("ESPP") and $12.6 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees and directors. This was partially offset by $13.6 million of finance lease liabilities repayments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, cash provided by financing activities was $272.7 million, primarily consisting of $274.9 million in proceeds from our follow-on public offering, net of underwriting fees, $9.3 million in proceeds from the ESPP, and $15.3 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees and directors. This was partially offset by $20.3 million of debt repayments, $5.8 million of finance lease liabilities repayments, and $0.7 million of payments of costs related to our follow-on public offering. For the year ended December 31, 2019, cash provided by financing activities was $168.1 million, primarily consisting of $192.5 million in proceeds from our IPO, net of underwriting fees, $5.4 million in proceeds from the ESPP, $6.1 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees and directors. This was partially offset by $29.1 million of net debt repayments, $5.5 million of payments of costs related to our IPO, and $1.4 million of finance lease liabilities repayments. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments The following table summarizes our non-cancelable contractual obligations as of December 31, 2021: 86 Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Purchase obligations - non-equipment (1) $ 49,056 $ 24,085 $ 160 $ 82 $ 73,383 Purchase obligations - equipment (2) 55,358 55,358 Operating lease obligations (3) 19,389 46,702 13,174 5,813 85,078 Finance lease obligations (4) 22,700 23,071 45,771 Debt obligation (5) 948,750 948,750 Total $ 146,503 $ 93,858 $ 962,084 $ 5,895 $ 1,208,340 __________ (1) Purchase obligations-non equipment represent total future minimum payments under contracts with our cloud infrastructure provider, network service providers, and other vendors. Purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. Our purchase obligations exclude our operating lease commitments associated with our colocation arrangements which have been separately disclosed under our operating lease commitments. (2) Purchase obligations-equipment represent total future minimum payments under contracts for capital expenditures which will primarily be financed through finance leases under our existing agreements. (3) Operating lease obligations represent total future minimum rent payments under non-cancelable operating lease agreements, such as our facilities and colocation (i.e. data center) leases. (4) Finance lease obligations represents principal and interest payments under our networking equipment leases. (5) Debt obligation aggregate principal amount of our 0% convertible senior notes due on March 15, 2026. These commitments will be generally be settled with existing cash on hand and cash generated from operations. Purchase obligations for capital equipment will be primarily settled by additional finance lease borrowings. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses, and related disclosures. Actual results and outcomes could differ significantly from our estimates, judgments, and assumptions. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. The processing and recording of certain revenue requires a manual process, which uses a complex set of procedures to generate complete and accurate data to record these revenue transactions. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, each of which are distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account. Our contracts with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together may require significant judgment. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the contract transaction price to each performance obligation using our estimate of the standalone selling price ("SSP") of each distinct good or service in the contract. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. We analyze separate sales of our products and services as a basis for estimating the SSP of our products and services. We then use the SSP as the basis for allocating the transaction price when our product and services are sold together in a contract with multiple performance obligations. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we 87 determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information, such as geographic region and distribution channel, in determining the SSP. The transaction price in a contract for usage-based services is typically equal to the minimum commit price in the contract less any discounts provided. The transaction price in a contract that does not contain usage-based services is equal to the total contract value. Because our typical contracts represent distinct services delivered over time with the same pattern of transfer to the customer, usage-based consideration primarily related to actual consumption over the minimum commit levels is allocated to the period to which it relates. The amount of consideration recognized for usage above the minimum commit price is limited to the amount we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for providing services. We have elected to apply the practical expedient for estimating and disclosing the variable consideration when variable consideration is allocated entirely to a wholly unsatisfied performance obligation or to a wholly unsatisfied promise to transfer a distinct good or service that forms part of a single performance obligation from our remaining performance obligations under these contracts. Performance obligations represent stand-ready obligations that are satisfied over time as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by us. These obligations can be content delivery, security, subscription services, professional services, support, edge cloud platform services, and others. Accordingly, our revenue is recognized over time, consistent with the pattern of benefit provided to the customer over the term of the agreement. At times, customers may request changes that either amend, replace, or cancel existing contracts. Judgment is required to determine whether the specific facts and circumstances within the contracts should be accounted for as a separate contract or as a modification. In contracts where there are timing differences between when we transfer a promised good or service to the customer and when the customer pays for that good or service, we have determined our contracts do not include a significant financing component. We have also elected the practical expedient to not measure financing components for any contract where the timing difference is less than one year. Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based employee compensation plans under the fair value recognition and measurement provisions, which require all stock-based payments, including grants of stock options, restricted stock units ("RSUs"), restricted stock awards ("RSAs"), performance stock awards ("PSUs") and shares issued under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") to be measured based on the grant-date fair value of the award and recognized as expense over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the respective award. We account for forfeitures as they occur. The fair value of RSUs and RSAs granted to our employees and directors is based on the grant date fair value. The fair value of PSUs granted to our employees is based on the fair value determined when the performance metrics were set. The fair value of stock options granted to our employees and directors, and of the shares to be issued under our ESPP are based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The determination of the fair value of a stock-based award is affected by the deemed fair value of the underlying stock price on the grant date, as well as assumptions regarding a number of other complex and subjective variables. These variables include the fair value of our common stock, the expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the options, stock option exercise and cancellation behaviors, risk-free interest rates, and expected dividends: These assumptions and estimates are as follows: Fair Value of Common Stock. We use the market closing price of our Class A common stock, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, for the fair value. Prior to our IPO, our board of directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock at each meeting at which awards are approved. These factors included, but were not limited to (i) contemporaneous third-party valuations of Common Stock; (ii) the rights and preferences of Series Preferred relative to Common Stock; (iii) the lack of marketability of Common Stock; (iv) developments in the business; and (v) the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an IPO or sale of the Company, given prevailing market conditions. 88 Expected Term. The expected term represents the period that our stock-based awards are expected to be outstanding. The expected term assumptions were determined based on the vesting terms, exercise terms, and contractual lives of the options. The expected term was estimated using the simplified method allowed under Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) guidance. Volatility. The expected volatility is derived from an average of the historical stock volatilities of the common stock of the Company. In prior years the expected volatility calculation also included the historical stock volatilities of comparable companies as we did not have a long enough trading history of our common stock . Comparable companies consist of public companies in our industry, which are similar in size, stage of life cycle, and financial leverage. Risk-free Interest Rate. The risk-free interest rate used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model is the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equivalent to that of the options for each expected term. Dividend Yield. The expected dividend assumption is based on our current expectations of our anticipated dividend policy. We have no history of paying any dividends and therefore used an expected dividend yield of zero. Valuation of Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets in Business Combination Accounting for business combinations requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately assign fair value to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as the useful lives of those acquired intangible assets. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of the intangible assets and goodwill we have acquired include but are not limited to future expected cash flows from acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name, existing customer relationships and backlog. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made. Additionally, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. The authoritative guidance allows a measurement period of up to one year from the date of acquisition to make adjustments to the preliminary allocation of the purchase price. As a result, during the measurement period we may record adjustments to the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill to the extent that it identifies adjustments to the preliminary purchase price allocation. Upon conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments will be recorded to the Consolidated Statement of Operations. Impairment of Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived Assets Goodwill is the amount by which the cost of acquired net assets in a business combination exceeds the fair value of the net identifiable assets on the date of purchase and is carried at its historical cost. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We determined that we operate as one reporting unit and we perform our annual impairment test of goodwill as of October 31 and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances, such as service discontinuance, technological obsolescence, significant decreases in our market capitalization, facility closures, or work-force reductions indicate that the carrying amount of the long-lived asset or asset group may not be recoverable. When such events occur, we compare the carrying amount of the asset or asset group to the undiscounted expected future cash flows related to the asset or asset group. If this comparison indicates that an impairment is present, the amount of the impairment is calculated as the difference between the carrying amount and the fair value of the asset or asset group. Leases 89 We lease office space and data centers ("Colocation leases") under non-cancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through 2027. We also lease server equipment under non-cancelable operating finance leases with various expiration dates through 2024. We determine if an arrangement contains a lease at inception. Operating lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities are recognized at the present value of the future lease payments at commencement date. The interest rate implicit in our operating leases is not readily determinable, and therefore an incremental borrowing rate is estimated to determine the present value of future payments. The estimated incremental borrowing rate factors in a hypothetical interest rate on a collateralized basis with similar terms, payments, and economic environments. Operating lease right-of-use assets also include any prepaid lease payments and lease incentives. Certain of the operating lease agreements contain rent concession, rent escalation, and option to renew provisions. Rent concession and rent escalation provisions are considered in determining the single lease cost to be recorded over the lease term. Single lease cost is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term commencing on the date we have the right to use the leased property. The lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. We generally use the base, non-cancelable, lease term when recognizing the lease assets and liabilities, unless it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. Our lease agreements may contain variable costs such as common area maintenance, operating expenses or other costs. Variable lease costs are expensed as incurred on the consolidated statements of operations. Our lease agreements generally do not contain any residual value guarantees or restrictive covenants. We lease networking equipment from a third party, through equipment finance leases. These leases include a bargain purchase option, resulting in a full transfer of ownership at the completion of the lease term. Operating leases are reflected in operating lease right-of-use assets, operating lease liabilities, and operating lease liabilities, non-current on our consolidated balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, net, finance lease liabilities, and finance lease liabilities, non-current on our consolidated balance sheets. Internal-Use Software Development Costs Labor and related costs associated with internal-use software during the application development stage are capitalized. Capitalization of costs begins when the preliminary project stage is completed, management has committed to funding the project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Capitalization ceases at the point when the project is fully tested and substantially complete and is ready for its intended purpose. The capitalized amounts are included in property and equipment, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We amortize such costs over the estimated useful life of the software; completed internal-use software that is used on our network is amortized to cost of revenue over its estimated useful life. Costs incurred during the planning, training, and post-implementation stages of the software development life-cycle are expensed as incurred. Legal and Other Contingencies From time to time, we have been and will continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims. Periodically, we evaluate the status of each legal matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any legal proceeding or litigation is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required to determine the probability of a loss and whether the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. The outcome of any proceeding is not determinable in advance. As a result, the assessment of a potential liability and the amount of accruals recorded are based only on the information available to us at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to the legal proceeding or litigation, and may revise our estimates. Any revisions could have a material effect on our results of operations. Please refer to Note 10Commitments and Contingencies for discussion around our legal proceedings. We conduct operations in many tax jurisdictions throughout the United States. In many of these jurisdictions, non-income-based taxes, such as sales and use and telecommunications taxes are assessed on our operations. We are subject to indirect taxes, and may be subject to certain other taxes, in some of these jurisdictions. Historically, we have not billed or collected these taxes and, in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have recorded a provision for our tax exposure in these jurisdictions when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the exposure can be reasonably estimated. As a result, we have recorded a liability of $7.5 million as of December 31, 2021. These estimates are based on 90 several key assumptions, including the taxability of our products, the jurisdictions in which we believe we have nexus and the sourcing of revenues to those jurisdictions. In the event these jurisdictions challenge our assumptions and analysis, our actual exposure could differ materially from our current estimates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 91