ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors and in other parts of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year ends on December 31. As used herein, Fastly, we, our, the Company and similar terms include Fastly, Inc. and its subsidiaries, unless the context indicates otherwise. Overview Organizations around the world are more dependent on the quality of digital experiences they provide than ever before. At Fastly, we deliver an edge cloud platform capable of delivering fast, safe, and engaging digital experiences. By focusing holistically on edge cloud from developer inspiration to end-user experience, we have the opportunity to differentiate with our global footprint, dynamic infrastructure, and security solution. Performance, security, and building the most engaging applications are paramount to driving mission success for Fastlys customers. The edge cloud is an emerging category of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) that enables developers to build, secure, and deliver digital experiences, at the edge of the Internet. This service represents the convergence of the Content Delivery Network (CDN) with functionality that has been traditionally delivered by hardware-centric appliances such as Application Delivery Controllers (ADC), Web Application Firewalls (WAF), Bot Detection, Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) and observability solutions. It also includes the emergence of a new, but growing, edge computing market which aims to move compute power and logic as close to the end user as possible. When milliseconds matter, processing at the edge is an ideal way to handle highly dynamic and time-sensitive data. This has led to its acceptance and adoption by organizations who monetize or grow their user base with every millisecond saved. Organizations that want to improve their user experience, whether its faster loading websites or reduced shopping cart abandonment, can benefit from processing at the edge. The edge cloud complements data center, central cloud, and hybrid solutions. Organizations must keep up with complex and ever-evolving end-user requirements. We help them surpass their end users expectations by powering fast, safe, and engaging digital experiences. We built a powerful edge cloud platform, designed from the ground up to be programmable and support agile software development. We believe that our platform gives our customers a significant competitive advantage, whether they were born into the digital age or are just embarking on their digital transformation journey. Developers on the Fastly platform have a high degree of flexibility with granular control and real-time visibility, where they can write and deploy code in a serverless environment and push application logic to the edge. Our infrastructure is built for the software-defined future. Our network is powerful, efficient, and flexible, designed to enable us to rapidly scale to meet the needs of the most demanding customers. Our approach to scalable, secure reliability integrates security into multiple layers of development: architecture, engineering, and operations. That's why we invest in building security into the fabric of our platform, alongside performance. We provide developers and security operations teams with a fast and safe environment to create, build, and run modern applications. We serve established enterprises, mid-market companies, and technology-savvy organizations. Our customers represent a diverse set of organizations across many industries with one thing in common: they care about delivering best in class digital experiences. With our edge cloud platform, our customers are disrupting existing industries and creating new ones. For example, several of our customers have reinvented digital publishing by connecting readers through subscription models to indispensable content. Fastlys ability to dynamically manage content in real time enables readers to have instant access to the most up to date information. Our customers ecommerce solutions use Fastly's edge compute functionality to deliver very low latency customer experiences, including providing better recommendations to their shoppers, converting more shopping carts into sales and executing fast and secure financial transactions. Content streaming organizations leverage Fastly's platform to deliver content to users around the world and those that livestream gain easy access to enormous edge compute resources for even greater reliability. The range of applications that developers build with our edge cloud platform continues to expand rapidly. 33 Our mission is to make the Internet a better place where all experiences are fast, safe, and engaging. We want all developers to have the ability to deliver the next transformative digital experience on a global scale. And because big ideas often start small, we love it when developers experiment and iterate on our platform, coming up with exciting new ways to solve todays complex problems. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, our revenue was $117.6 million and $102.4 million, respectively, an increase of 15%. Our 10 largest customers generated an aggregate of 35% and 32% of our revenue in the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our 5 largest customers generated an aggregate of 26% and 22% of our revenue in the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Affiliated customers that are business units of a single company in the streaming entertainment space generated an aggregate of 11% of our revenue in both the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. We incurred a net loss of $44.7 million and $64.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We focus our direct selling efforts on expanding our customer's use of our platform, which includes companies that are exhibiting significant growth. We engage with and support these customers with our field sales representatives, account managers, and technical account managers who focus on customer satisfaction and drive expansion of their usage of our platform and products. These teams work with technical and business leaders to help our customers end-users receive the best possible digital experience, while also lowering our customers total cost of ownership. These direct selling efforts are reflected by the revenue generated by our enterprise customers. Our Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate (DBNER), Net Retention Rate (NRR) and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate (LTM NRR) metrics also measure the revenue growth from existing customers attributable to increased usage of our platform and features, and purchase of additional products and services. For additional details on our key metrics, refer to the Key Business Metrics section. Factors Affecting Our Performance Winning New Customers We are focused on continuing to attract new customers, including those in new vertical markets, and expanding our relationship with existing customers, by enhancing our product experience, investing in technology, and leveraging our partner ecosystem. Our customer base includes large, established enterprises that are undergoing digital transformation and emerging companies spanning a wide array of industries and verticals. Developers within these companies often use and advocate for the adoption of our platform by their companies and promotion across the broader developer community. We will continue to invest in our products and features and developer outreach, leveraging it as a cost-efficient approach to attracting new customers, and our sales and marketing programs, including various online marketing activities as well as targeted account-based advertising. We are continuing to bring a durable, consistent, and predictable pipeline of new innovations to our edge cloud platform and software-defined modern network architecture, and are seeing interest from customers in our existing product lines like Network Services and Security, and newer product lines like Compute and Observability. We will continue to build out a single, unified platform, simplify customer onboarding and service usage, and simplify our pricing and packaging. This will require us to dedicate significant resources to further develop the market for our platform and differentiate our platform from competitive products and services. We will also need to expand, retain, and motivate our sales and marketing personnel in order to target our sales efforts at larger enterprises and senior management of these potential customers. Many jurisdictions have enacted laws on data localization and cross-border data transfers, and the evolving enforcement and interpretation of such laws has created uncertainty regarding data stored abroad and transferred across borders, which could impact customer growth and acquisition for customers and potential customers conducting business in Europe and elsewhere outside of the United States. For additional details, refer to the section titled Risk Factors. Expanding into New Vertical Markets and within Our Existing Customer Base We aim to continue to add customers from a diverse set of industry verticals through our differentiated platform that offers a broad range of capabilities. By focusing on performance and security, we have an opportunity to continue to add customers from a diverse set of industries. We emphasize retaining our customers and expanding their usage of our platform and adoption of our other products. Customers often begin with smaller deployments of one of our products and then expand their usage over time. Our platform includes a variety of offerings across Network Services, Security, Compute and Observability product lines. As our customers mature, we assist them in expanding their use of our platform, including the use of additional offerings beyond edge cloud delivery or security. As enterprises grow and experience increased traffic, their needs evolve, leading them to find additional 34 use cases for our platform and expand their usage accordingly. In addition, given that customer acquisition costs are incurred largely for acquiring and initial onboarding, we may gain operating leverage to the extent that existing customers expand their use of our platform and products. Our ability to retain customers and expand their usage could be impaired for a variety of reasons, including a customer moving to another provider or reducing usage within the term of their contract to their minimum usage commitment. Even if our customers expand their usage of our platform, we cannot guarantee that they will maintain those usage levels for any meaningful period of time or that they will renew their commitments. The data localization and cross-border data transfer issues described above also impact current customers' usage of our products and services. In addition, we cannot be certain what actions the United States or another country's government may take with respect to certain of our customers that may adversely affect our ability to do business with our customers that operate in China, target China as a market or that have strong business ties to China. International Expansion We intend to continue expanding our efforts to attract customers outside of the United States by augmenting our sales teams and strategically increasing our presence in the number of markets in select international locations. As of both March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, our edge network spans across 58 markets and 34 countries that are outside of the United States. Our international expansion, including our global sales efforts, continues to add increased complexity and cost to our business. This requires us to expand our sales and marketing capabilities outside of the United States, as well as increase the number of markets we have a presence in around the world to support our customers. Managing the administrative aspects of a global organization places a strain on our business and culture. We are closely monitoring the unfolding events of the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its global impacts. While the conflict is still evolving and the outcome remains highly uncertain, we do not believe the Russia-Ukraine conflict will have a material impact on our business and results of operation. However, some threat actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks, including without limitation nation-state actors for geopolitical reasons and in conjunction with military conflicts and defense activities. During times of war and other major conflicts, we, the third parties upon which we rely, and our customers may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of these attacks, including retaliatory cyber-attacks, that could materially disrupt our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our goods and services. If the Russia-Ukraine conflict continues or worsens, leading to greater global economic disruptions and uncertainty, our business and results of operations could be materially impacted. Our customers in Russia represented an immaterial portion of our net assets and total consolidated revenue as of the three months ended March 31, 2023. Investing in Sales and Marketing Our customers have been pivotal in driving brand awareness and broadening our reach. While we continue to leverage the self-service approach to drive adoption by developers, we will continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts, with an increased focus on sales to enterprises globally. Utilizing our direct sales force, we have multiple selling points within organizations to acquire new customers and increase usage from our existing customers. We will continue to increase our discretionary marketing spend, including account-based and brand spend, to drive the effectiveness of our sales teams. As a result, we expect our total operating expenses to increase as we continue to expand. Our investments in sales and marketing teams are intended to help accelerate our sales, onboarding, and ramp cycles. These efforts will require us to continue to invest in sales and marketing resources. Furthermore, we believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training, and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. 35 Continued Investment in Our Platform and Network Infrastructure We must continue to invest in our platform and network infrastructure to maintain our position in the market. We expect our revenue growth to be dependent on an expanding customer base and continued adoption of our edge cloud delivery, security, and other products and services. In anticipation of winning new customers and staying ahead of our customers needs, we plan to continue to invest in order to expand the scale and capacity of our software-defined modern network. This could result in increased network service provider fees, which could adversely affect our gross margins if we are unable to offset these costs with revenue from new customers and increase revenue from existing customers. Our customers require constant innovation within their own organizations and expect the same from us. Therefore, we will continue to invest in resources to enhance our development capabilities and introduce new products and features on our platform. We believe that investment in research and development will contribute to our long-term growth but may also negatively impact our short-term profitability. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, our research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue were 32% and 39%, respectively. We may also seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities, or otherwise offer growth opportunities. For example, in May 2022, we acquired Glitch, a software company specializing in developer project management tools to bolster our existing product offerings, by making it easier to innovate at a layer in the Fastly software stack. Developers use our platform to build custom applications and require a state-of-the-art infrastructure to test and run these applications. We will continue to invest in our network infrastructure by strategically increasing our POPs. We also anticipate making investments in upgrading our technology and hardware to continue providing our customers a fast and secure platform. Our gross margins and operating results are impacted by these investments. As of March 31, 2023, our global network is located in 79 markets across 35 countries. In the event that there are errors in software, failures of hardware, damages to a facility or misconfigurations of any of our services, whether caused by our own error, security breaches, third-party error, or natural disasters, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our platform as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new facilities and services. In addition, there can be no assurance that we are adequately prepared for unexpected increases in bandwidth demands by our customers, particularly when customers experience cyber-attacks. The bandwidth we have contracted to purchase may become unavailable for a variety of reasons, including service outages, payment disputes, network providers going out of business, natural disasters, networks imposing traffic limits, or governments adopting regulations that impact network operations. 36 Key Business Metrics We use the following key metrics presented in the table below, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, prepare financial projections, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of these key metrics below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, analysts, or investors. In the first quarter of 2023, we updated the methodology (new methodology) by which we calculate our customer count metrics, including Total Customer Count, Enterprise Customer Count and associated metrics. We believe that the new methodology more accurately reflects the trends in our business, gives management more insight into these trends, including customer usage of our platform and the seasonality we experience, and reduces lagging indicators inherent in our previous methodology (prior methodology). In conjunction with this update, for comparability purposes we will continue to report our customer count metrics using both the prior and new methodology, for the current and comparative periods presented in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Annual Reports on Form 10-K through the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2023 2022 Customer metrics (prior methodology): Total Customer Count (based on last month revenue) 3,001 2,880 Enterprise Customer Count (based on trailing 12-month revenue) 514 457 Average Enterprise Customer Spend (based on trailing 12-month revenue; in thousands) $ 778 $ 722 Customer metrics (new methodology): Total Customer Count (based on current quarter revenue) 3,100 2,965 Enterprise Customer Count (based on annualized revenue) 540 488 Average Enterprise Customer Spend (based on annualized current quarter revenue; in thousands) $ 795 $ 758 Other key metrics: Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate (DBNER) 121.4 % 117.9 % Net Retention Rate (NRR) 104.5 % 114.0 % Last-twelve Months Net Retention Rate (LTM NRR) 116.2 % 115.0 % Due to the revisions reflected in the above methodology, the customer count metrics included above calculated using our new methodology are not comparable to the historical customer count metrics included in our previously filed Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Form S-1 and Form S-3 Registration Statements, outside of the data included in the table above. Total Customer Count We believe that our total number of customers is an important indicator of the adoption of our platform. Our definition of a customer consists of identifiable operating entities with which we have a billing relationship in good standing and which we have recognized revenue from. An identifiable operating entity is defined as a company, a government entity, or a distinct business unit of a larger company that has a relationship with us through direct sale or through one of our reseller partners where charges are identified on an end-customer basis. We may treat separate subsidiaries, segments, divisions, or business units of a single organization that use our platform as unique customers where they have distinct account identifiers. In cases where charges are identified through a reseller partner rather than on an end-customer basis, we would count the reseller as a single customer in our customer count. Our customer groupings may be impacted by changes to our customers business, including any impact from acquisition activities, internal business reorganizations leading to operational and decision making changes, and corporate structure changes such as subsidiary consolidation and reorganization that may arise in the future. Our prior methodology by which we calculate total customer count, includes identifiable operating entities with which we have a billing relationship in good standing, from which we recognized revenue during the last month of the quarter. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had 3,001 and 2,880 customers, respectively. 37 Our new methodology by which we calculate total customer count, includes identifiable operating entities with which we have a billing relationship in good standing, from which we recognized revenue during the quarter. As of March 31, 2023 and 2022, we had 3,100 and 2,965 customers, respectively. In addition to our paying customers, we also have trial, developer, nonprofit and open source programs, and other non-paying accounts that are excluded from our customer count metric. We operate globally and as a result, the success of our ability to retain our customers is also affected by general economic and market conditions around the world. Enterprise Customer Count Historically our revenue has been driven primarily by a subset of our customers, our enterprise customers, who have leveraged our platform substantially from a usage standpoint. We believe that the recruitment and cultivation of enterprise customers is critical to our long-term success. Under our prior methodology, our enterprise customer count is defined as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the trailing 12-month period. As of March 31, 2023, we had 514 of such enterprise customers, which generated 89% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2022, we had 457 of such enterprise customers which generated 89% of our revenue for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022. Under our new methodology, our enterprise customer count is defined as customers with annualized current quarter revenue in excess of $100,000. This is calculated by taking the revenue we recognized for each customer in the current quarter and multiplying it by four. As of March 31, 2023, we had 540 of such enterprise customers which generated 91% of the total annualized current quarter revenue for our total customers for the period ended March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2022, we had 488 of such enterprise customers which generated 90% of the total annualized current quarter revenue for our total customers for the period ended March 31, 2022. Average Enterprise Customer Spend Our enterprise customers continue to leverage our platform, increasing their spend on our platform and driving our revenue growth year over year. The continued retention and growth of our enterprise customer spend is key to our long-term growth strategy. Under the prior methodology, our average enterprise customer spend is calculated by taking the sum of the trailing 12-month revenue contributed by enterprise customers, as defined under our prior methodology as customers with revenue in excess of $100,000 over the trailing 12-month period, existing as of March 31, 2023, and dividing that by that same number of enterprise customers as of March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2023, our average enterprise customer spend under the prior methodology was $778 thousand, as compared to $722 thousand as of March 31, 2022. Under the new methodology, our average enterprise customer spend is calculated by taking the annualized current quarter revenue contributed by enterprise customers, as defined under our new methodology as customers with annualized current quarter revenue in excess of $100,000, existing as of March 31, 2023, and dividing that by that same number of enterprise customers as of March 31, 2023. As of March 31, 2023, our average enterprise customer spend under the new methodology was $795 thousand, as compared to $758 thousand as of March 31, 2022. Dollar-Based Net Expansion Rate (DBNER) Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is dependent upon our ability to increase the number of new customers and usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and other products and services by our existing customers. We track our growth, in part, by measuring DBNER. Our DBNER increases when customers increase their usage of our platform or purchase additional products, and declines when they reduce their usage, benefit from lower pricing on their existing usage, or curtail their purchases of additional products. We believe that DBNER is a key metric in measuring the long-term value of our customer relationships and our ability to grow our revenue through increased usage of our edge cloud delivery platform, security, and purchase of additional products and services by our existing customers. However, our calculation of DBNER indicates only expansion among continuing customers and does not indicate any decrease in revenue attributable to former customers, which may differ from similar metrics of other companies. 38 We calculate DBNER by dividing the revenue for a given period from customers who remained customers as of the last day of the given period (current period) by the revenue from the same customers for the same period measured one year prior (base period). The revenue included in the current period excludes revenue from (i) customers that churned after the end of the base period and (ii) new customers that entered into a customer agreement after the end of the base period. For example, to calculate our DBNER for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023, we divide (i) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023, from customers that entered into a customer agreement on or before March 31, 2022, and that remained customers as of March 31, 2023, by (ii) revenue, for the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2022, from the same set of customers. For the trailing 12 months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 our DBNER was 121.4% and 117.9%, respectively. DBNER may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on, among other things, the timing associated with new customer accounts. We expect our DBNER for individual cohorts to decrease once customers in that cohort have used our platform for more than two years and become a larger portion of both our overall customer base and the revenue that we use to calculate DBNER. Net Retention Rate (NRR) and Last-Twelve Months Net Retention Rate (LTM NRR) Our ability to generate and increase our revenue is also dependent upon our ability to retain our existing customers. In addition to measuring expansion using DBNER, NRR and LTM NRR also allow us to track customer retention which demonstrates the stickiness of our edge cloud platform. Our NRR measures the net change in monthly revenue from existing customers in the last month of the period (the current period month) compared to the last month of the same period one year prior (the prior period month) and includes revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn and revenue expansion due to billing increases, but excludes revenue from new customers. We calculate Net Retention Rate by dividing the revenue from the current period month by the revenue in the prior period month. For the last month of the period ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 our NRR was 104.5% and 114.0%, respectively. Our LTM NRR removes some of the volatility that is inherent in a usage-based business model from the measurement of the NRR metric. We calculate LTM NRR by dividing the total customer revenue for the prior twelve-month period (prior 12-month period) ending at the beginning of the last twelve-month period (LTM period) minus revenue contraction due to billing decreases or customer churn, plus revenue expansion due to billing increases during the LTM period from the same customers by the total prior 12-month period revenue. For the trailing twelve months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 our LTM NRR was 116.2% and 115.0%, respectively. Key Components of Statement of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform. We also earn fixed-rate recurring revenue from security and other products and services. Our usage-based fees earned from customers using our platform are generally billed in arrears. Our security products are primarily annual subscriptions that are billed in advance. Many customers have tiered usage pricing which reflects discounted rates as usage increases. For most contracts, usage charges are determined on a monthly basis based on actual usage within the month and do not impact usage charges within any other month. Our larger customers often enter into contracts that contain minimum billing commitments and reflect discounted pricing associated with such usage levels. We define United States revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address in the United States, and we define international revenue as revenue from customers that have a billing address outside of the United States. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees paid to network providers for bandwidth and to third-party network data centers for housing servers, also known as colocation costs. Cost of revenue also includes employee costs for network operation, build-out and support and services delivery, network storage costs, cost of managed services and software-as-a-service, depreciation of network equipment used to deliver services, and amortization of network-related internal-use software. Our arrangements with network service providers require us to pay fees based on bandwidth use, in some cases subject to minimum commitments, which may be underutilized. Over the long term we expect cost of revenue to decrease as a percentage 39 of revenue as we continue to drive efficiencies in our operations. However, our cost of revenue may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Our gross margin has been and will continue to be affected by a number of factors, including utilization of our network, the timing of our investments in the expansion of our network, which can increase depreciation and colocation costs in advance of expected demand, our ability to manage our network service providers and cloud infrastructure-related fees, the timing of amortization of capitalized software development costs, changes in personnel costs to provide customer support and operate the network, and customer pricing. Over the long term we expect gross margin to increase as we continue to drive efficiencies in our operations and increase our revenue. However, our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include cloud infrastructure fees for development and testing, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We capitalize the portion of our software development costs that meet the criteria for capitalization. We continue to focus our research and development efforts on adding new features and products including new use cases, improving the efficiency and performance of our network, and increasing the functionality of our existing products. Over the long term we expect our research and development expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our research and development expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including commissions for our sales employees, salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, our brand awareness activities, bandwidth and co-location costs for free trial users, costs related to our customer conferences, including our Altitude conference, professional services fees and amortization of our intangible assets, and an allocation of our general overhead expenses. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our platform and products, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand, both domestically and internationally. Over the long term, we expect our sales and marketing expenses to decrease as a percentage of our revenue. However, our sales and marketing expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits, bonuses, and stock-based compensation for our administrative support personnel. General and administrative expenses also include costs related to legal and other professional services fees, SaaS costs, an allocation of our general overhead expenses, credit losses and acquisition-related costs. Our general and administrative expenses also include sales and other tax expenses to which we are subject to based on the manner we sell and deliver our products. Historically, we have not collected such taxes from our customers and have therefore recorded such taxes as general and administrative expenses. We expect that these expenses will decline in future years as we continue to implement our sales tax collection mechanisms and start collecting these taxes from our customers. In the near term, we expect to continue to incur costs associated with supporting the growth of our business, including international expansion, but expect these costs to decrease as a percentage of our revenue over the long term as we continue to drive efficiencies in our operations. However, our general and administrative expenses may fluctuate as a percentage of our revenue from period to period due to the timing and extent of these expenses. 40 Other Income and Expenses Our interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments. Our interest expense consists primarily of the interest expense on our finance leases and amortization of discount and debt issuance costs associated with our debt obligations. Our other income (expense), net, consists primarily of foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Income Taxes Our income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and state minimum income taxes in the United States. The Company currently maintains a full valuation allowance on the Company's U.S. Federal and state net deferred tax assets. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance for the foreseeable future. 41 Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the period presented: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations: Revenue $ 117,564 $ 102,382 Cost of revenue 57,310 53,915 Gross profit 60,254 48,467 Operating expenses: Research and development 37,431 40,437 Sales and marketing 44,271 41,480 General and administrative 25,827 29,554 Total operating expenses 107,529 111,471 Loss from operations (47,275) (63,004) Interest income 4,186 681 Interest expense (1,213) (1,622) Other expense (250) (279) Loss before income tax expense (44,552) (64,224) Income tax expense 135 40 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (44,687) $ (64,264) Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations, as a percentage of revenue:* Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 49 53 Gross profit 51 47 Operating expenses: Research and development 32 39 Sales and marketing 38 41 General and administrative 22 29 Total operating expenses 91 109 Loss from operations (40) (62) Interest income 4 1 Interest expense (1) (2) Other expense Loss before income tax expense (37) (63) Income tax expense Net loss attributable to common stockholders (38) % (63) % __________ * Columns may not add up to 100% due to rounding. 42 Revenue Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 117,564 $ 102,382 $ 15,182 15 % Revenue was $117.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $102.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $15.2 million, or 15%. Revenue growth was driven by the further adoption of our edge platform and products as well as a $3.0 million increase in revenue related to products acquired from the acquisition of Signal Sciences. Under the prior methodology, as defined earlier in the 'Key Business Metrics' section, we had 3,001 customers and 514 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2023, compared to 2,880 customers and 457 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2022. This represents an increase of 121, or 4%, in customers and 57, or 12%, in enterprise customers from March 31, 2022. Under the new methodology, as defined earlier in the 'Key Business Metrics' section, we had 3,100 customers and 540 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2023, compared to 2,965 customers and 488 enterprise customers as of March 31, 2022. This represents an increase of 135, or 5%, in customers and 52, or 11%, in enterprise customers from March 31, 2022. In both the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, approximately 94% of our revenue was driven by usage on our platform. Revenue was primarily from existing customers, as revenue from new customers contributed less than 10% of our revenue. The proportion of the revenue contribution between new and existing customers is consistent with prior periods and typical customer behavior as customers tend to contribute more revenue over time as their use of the platform increases. The remainder of our revenue was generated by other products and services. U.S. revenue was $85.4 million, or 73% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $75.6 million, or 74% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This represents an increase of $9.8 million, or 13%. International revenue was $32.2 million, or 27% of revenue, for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $26.8 million, or 26%, of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2022. This represents an increase of $5.4 million, or 20%. Under the prior methodology, as defined earlier in the 'Key Business Metrics' section, we had 2,058 domestic customers and 943 international customers as of March 31, 2023, and 2,168 domestic customers and 712 international customers as of March 31, 2022. There was a decrease in domestic customers of 110, or 5%, and an increase in international customers of 231, or 32%, compared to March 31, 2022. Under the new methodology, as defined earlier in the 'Key Business Metrics' section, we had 2,111 domestic customers and 989 international customers as of March 31, 2023, and 2,253 domestic customers and 712 international customers as of March 31, 2022. There was an decrease in domestic customers of 142, or 6%, and an increase in international customers of 277, or 39%, compared to March 31, 2022. Cost of Revenue Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 57,310 $ 53,915 $ 3,395 6 % Cost of revenue was $57.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $53.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $3.4 million, or 6%. The increase in cost of revenue is a result of an increase in depreciation and amortization of $1.8 million as a result of increased investments in our platform. There was also a $1.2 million increase in spending related to the software and hosting services and bandwidth costs of $0.7 million to support the growth of our business. 43 Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Gross profit $ 60,254 $ 48,467 $ 11,787 24 % Gross margin 51 % 47 % 4 % Gross profit was $60.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $48.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $11.8 million, or 24%. Gross margin was 51% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of 4%. The increase in gross margin was driven by revenue growth due to the further adoption of our edge platform including our revenue from Signal Science's products as well as cost savings driven by our improved network efficiency. Operating Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 37,431 $ 40,437 $ (3,006) (7) % Sales and marketing 44,271 41,480 2,791 7 % General and administrative 25,827 29,554 (3,727) (13) % Total operating expenses $ 107,529 $ 111,471 $ (3,942) (4) % Percentage of revenue: Research and development 32% 39% (7)% Sales and marketing 38% 41% (3)% General and administrative 22% 29% (7)% Research and development Research and development expenses were $37.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $40.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $3.0 million, or 7%. The net decrease is primarily due to a $7.2 million decrease in stock-based compensation expenses attributed to the function, offset by increases of $4.4 million in personnel related costs, such as salaries and benefits. There was also a $0.8 million decrease in capitalization of costs related to the timing of capitalization of our development of internal-use software. The decrease was partially offset by $0.3 million in spending related to the software and hosting services costs used in our sales generation efforts. Sales and marketing Sales and marketing expenses were $44.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $41.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $2.8 million, or 7%. The net increase is primarily due to a $4.3 million increase in personnel related costs, such as salaries, sales commissions, and benefits, offset by a $3.4 million decrease in stock-based compensation expenses attributed to the function. There was also an increase of $1.0 million related to employee time and expenses as work-related travel has started to increase with the lift of prior travel-related restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. There was also a $0.4 million increase in marketing spend associated with brand campaign and advertising. General and administrative General and administrative costs were $25.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $29.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $3.8 million, or 13%. The net decrease was primarily due to a $2.7 million decrease in professional services, including temporary agency costs. There was also a decrease due to a $1.1 million decrease in stock-based compensation expenses attributed to the function, offset by increases of $0.6 million in personnel related costs, such as salaries and benefits. There was also a $0.4 million decrease of equipment purchases as well as $0.3 million decrease in insurance costs. 44 Other Income and Expense Interest Income Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Interest income $ 4,186 $ 681 $ 3,505 515 % Interest income was $4.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $3.5 million, or 515%. This increase is due to a recent increase in interest rates, impacting our marketable securities portfolio. Interest Expense Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Interest expense $ 1,213 $ 1,622 $ (409) (25) % Interest expense was $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $0.4 million, or 25%. Interest expense decreased slightly from prior year mainly due to our repurchase of our outstanding convertible notes in the prior year. Other income (expense), net Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other expense $ (250) $ (279) $ 29 (10) % Other expense, net remained relatively flat and was $0.3 million for both the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. There were nominal changes in the balance which is mainly driven by our foreign currency transaction gains between the periods. Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, Change 2023 2022 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax expense $ 135 $ 40 $ 95 238 % Income tax expense remained relatively flat and was $0.1 million both for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022. The Company continues to maintain a full valuation allowance and the tax expense for the periods were primarily due to foreign tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2023, we had cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and restricted cash totaling $664.1 million. Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities primarily consisted of bank deposits, money market funds, investment-grade commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, U.S. treasury securities, municipal securities, foreign 45 government and supranational securities and asset-backed securities held at major financial institutions. As of March 31, 2023, our marketable securities balance includes $117.5 million of marketable securities that were classified as non-current. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, payments received from customers, the net proceeds we received through sales of our debt securities, and proceeds from our convertible notes. Our principal uses of cash in the near term have primarily been around funding our operations, our capital expenditures, business acquisitions, investments and fulfilling our debt and contractual commitments. We have also entered into longer term commitments to support our operations, including arrangements to directly lease and operate our infrastructure assets and colocation facilities. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet arrangements and do not have any holdings in variable interest entities. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents balances, and available borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and the cash flows generated by our operations, net of the cash outflows used in our operations, will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital expenditures for at least the next 12 months. We have generated losses from operations in the past and expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments and strategic initiatives we intend to make to grow our business. Our uses of cash beyond the next 12 months will depend on many factors, including the general economic environment in which we operate and our ability to generate cash flow from operations, which are uncertain. We may also use our cash to buy back any outstanding debt on our convertible notes or on any future equity issuances. Senior Secured Credit Facilities Agreement On February 16, 2021, we entered into a Senior Secured Credit Facilities Agreement (Credit Agreement) with Silicon Valley Bank for an aggregate commitment amount of $100.0 million, with a maturity date of February 16, 2024. The Credit Agreement bears interest at a rate per annum equal to the sum of LIBOR for the applicable interest period plus 1.75% to 2.00%, depending on the average daily outstanding balance of all loans and letters of credit under the Credit Agreement. Interest payments on outstanding borrowings are due on the last day of each interest period. The Credit Agreement has a commitment fee on the unused portion of the borrowing commitment, which is payable on the last day of each calendar quarter at a rate per annum of 0.20% to 0.25% depending on the average daily outstanding balance of all loans and letters of credit under the Credit Agreement. The agreement allows for an alternative interest rate to be used. The Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant that requires us to maintain a consolidated adjusted quick ratio of at least 1:25 to 1:00 tested on a quarterly basis as well as a springing revenue growth covenant for certain periods if our consolidated adjusted quick ratio falls below 1.75 to 1:00 on the last day of any fiscal quarter. As of March 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the covenant and we expect to continue to be in compliance for at least the next 12 months. During the three and three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, no amounts were drawn down on the Credit Agreement. Convertible Senior Notes In March 2021, we issued approximately $948.8 million aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior unsecured notes due in 2026 (the Notes) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule144A under the Securities Act. On May 25, 2022, we entered into separate, privately negotiated transactions with certain holders of the Notes to repurchase (the Repurchases) approximately $235.0 million aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Notes for an aggregate cash repurchase price of approximately $176.4 million. The Repurchases closed on May 31, 2022. The remaining Notes will mature on March 15, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the period indicated: Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (8,861) $ (13,190) Net cash provided by investing activities $ 219,530 $ 87,683 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities $ (5,713) $ 5,452 46 Cash Flows from Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in operating activities was $8.9 million, consisting primarily of our net loss of $44.7 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $56.6 million, and net cash flows used in operating assets and liabilities of $20.8 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an increase in other long-term assets of $7.2 million primarily due to increase in commissions being capitalized and an increase of $10.7 million in accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments and release of accrued bonus. We also had $5.8 million of operating lease payments. This was offset by a netincrease in accounts receivable of $3.7 million, primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from our customers. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities was $13.2 million, consisting primarily of our net loss of $64.3 million, adjusted for non-cash items of $65.7 million, and net cash flows used in operating assets and liabilities of $14.7 million. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an increase in accounts receivable of $9.2 million primarily due to the growth of our business and the timing of cash receipts from our customers, an increase in other long-term assets of $2.5 million due to an increase in commissions being capitalized, and an increase of $2.1 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets due to pre-payments for SaaS licenses. We also had $6.6 million of operating lease payments. This was offset by a net increase of $5.7 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities due to the timing of payments. Cash Flows from Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by investing activities was $219.5 million, primarily consisting of $227.2 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities, offset by $4.2 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software and $3.5 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by investing activities was $87.7 million, primarily consisting of $242.8 million of maturities and sales of marketable securities, offset by $148.2 million of purchases of marketable securities, $3.8 million of additions to capitalized internal-use software, $2.4 million of payments related to purchases of property and equipment to expand our network and $0.8 million related to business acquisitions. Cash Flows from Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in financing activities was $5.7 million, primarily consisting of $8.6 million of finance lease payments. This decrease was partially offset by $0.3 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees and $2.6 million in proceeds from the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP). For the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash provided by financing activities was $5.5 million, primarily consisting of $10.7 million in proceeds from the early sale of restricted shares, $3.0 million in proceeds from stock option exercises by our employees, and $2.4 million in proceeds from the ESPP. This increase was partially offset by $7.2 million of finance lease payments and $3.5 million in repayments to employees for restricted share awards. Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating and finance leases, purchase obligations for capital expenditures, purchase obligations for contracts with our cloud infrastructure provider, network service providers, and other vendors, and outstanding debt. As of March 31, 2023, we have $20.1 million of total purchase obligations under contracts for capital expenditures and $1.2 million for other long-term contracts. Other than the aforementioned, there have not been any other material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments from our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, except for those described under Note 7, Note 9, and Note 10 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses, and related disclosures. Actual results and outcomes could differ significantly from our estimates, judgments, and assumptions. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. 47 There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to the critical accounting estimates disclosed in Management's Discussion and Analysis Critical Accounting Estimates of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 48