Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other management statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance or projections of the Company, projected revenue or expense synergies, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, deleveraging plans, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, are forward-looking statements. In many cases, forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as "may," "will," "should," "expect," "plan," "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "predict," "potential," or "continue," or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties to which forward-looking statements are subject include the following, without limitation: the outbreak or recurrence of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") and measures to reduce its spread, including the impact of governmental or voluntary actions such as business shutdowns and stay-at-home orders; the duration, including any recurrence, of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts, including the general impact of an economic recession, reductions in consumer and business spending, and instability of the financial markets across the globe; the economic and other impacts of COVID-19 on our clients which affect the sales of our solutions and services and the implementation of such solutions; the risk of losses in the event of defaults by merchants (or other parties) to which we extend credit in our card settlement operations or in respect of any chargeback liability, either of which could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including those resulting from COVID-19 or other pandemics, intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the U.S. and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the risk that the Worldpay transaction will not provide the expected benefits or that we will not be able to achieve the cost or revenue synergies anticipated; the risk that the integration of FIS and Worldpay will be more difficult, time-consuming or expensive than anticipated; the risk that other acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from other acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software, including software updates, for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; 25 Table of Contents the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; the risk that election results in the U.S. may result in additional regulation and additional regulatory and tax costs; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed in the Risk Factors and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for merchants, banks and capital markets firms globally. Our employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests by applying our scale, deep expertise and data-driven insights. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and deliver superior experiences for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of Standard & Poor's 500 Index. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions which have contributed critical solutions and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. FIS evaluates possible acquisitions that might contribute to our growth or performance on an ongoing basis. We also develop new solutions which enhance our client offerings. Through our acquisition of Worldpay on July 31, 2019, FIS is now a global leader in financial technology solutions and services for merchants, as well as for banks and capital markets. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Worldpay acquisition. FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. A description of our segments is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the Adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing services, payment transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, substantially all of its revenue is recurring. A considerable portion of our Merchant recurring revenue, and to a lesser extent a portion of our Banking recurring revenue, is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the number or value of transactions processed, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with point-in-time recognition and are less predictable. COVID-19 continued to impact our financial results in the third quarter of 2020. In certain locations, where government lockdowns and shelter-in-place orders have been loosened, consumer spending impacting our Merchant Solutions payments volume and related transaction revenue has partially recovered, while certain verticals like travel, entertainment and hospitality 26 Table of Contents continue to be significantly impacted. The Company's revenue continues to be impacted by reduced payment processing volumes within our Merchant Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, transaction volume within our Banking Solutions segment, but both have improved in the third quarter of 2020. We have seen some slowdown in customer decision-making on sales and implementation of our solutions, as well as on software licenses and professional services. These delays, due largely to client caution, have adversely affected our business, results of operations and financial condition in the third quarter of 2020 and could continue, although the magnitude and duration of their ultimate effect is not possible to predict and has not been material to date. We have continued to prioritize investments in solutions that help address the needs of our clients in order to increase the Company's potential to resume strong revenue growth following the pandemic. In response to COVID-19, we are continuing to take several actions to manage discretionary expenses, including reducing office space, prohibiting most travel and reducing incentive compensation, as well as accelerating automation and functional alignment across the organization. These actions are expected to reduce such expenses by approximately $300 million in 2020. Of this amount, approximately $220 million relates to reducing incentive compensation for 2020, which is not an action we expect to take with respect to 2021 incentive compensation. Our extension of higher-than-usual levels of credit to our merchant clients as part of funds settlement in connection with payments to their customers, for, among other things, refunds for cancelled trips and events, lessened as the third quarter progressed and government lockdown orders continue to be relaxed or moderated. We are exposed to losses if our merchant customers are unable to repay the credit we have extended or to fund their liability for chargebacks due to closure, insolvency, bankruptcy or other reasons. This increase in extended credit or potential liability for chargebacks did not have a material impact on our liquidity for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020, although certain of our merchant clients have ceased doing business, at least for a period of time, and we continue to monitor their impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. However, delays in implementation of our solutions caused by the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic may temporarily slow revenue growth to an extent not yet determined. Over the last four years, we have moved approximately 73% of our server compute, primarily in North America, to our FIS cloud located in our strategic data centers, and our goal is to increase that percentage to 80% by the end of 2021. This allows us to further enhance security for our clients' data and increases the flexibility and speed with which we can provide services and solutions to our clients, eventually at lesser cost. Concurrently, we have continued to consolidate our data centers, closing seven data centers in 2019 and an additional five data centers during the nine months ended September 30, 2020. Our consolidation has generated a savings for the Company as of the end of the third quarter of 2020 of approximately $230 million in run-rate annual expense reduction since the program's inception in mid-2016. We plan to close and consolidate approximately 8 more data centers by the end of 2021, which should result in additional run-rate annual expense reduction of approximately $20 million. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions and services to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We have increased our investments in these areas in each of the last three years. Our innovation efforts have recently resulted in bringing to market our Modern Banking Platform that is among the first cloud-native core banking solutions. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. FIS continues to carefully monitor the effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as conditions continue to evolve. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Company has taken several actions to protect its employees while maintaining business 27 Table of Contents continuity, including implementing its comprehensive Pandemic Plan. The Pandemic Plan includes site-specific plans as well as travel restrictions, medical response protocols, work-from-home strategies and enhanced cleaning within our locations. As a critical infrastructure provider for the global economy, FIS continues to operate around the world to serve our clients. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including restricting employee travel, developing social distancing plans for our employees and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our employees, clients and business partners. Where government lockdowns have prohibited or slowed down certain functions at specific locations, FIS has outfitted employees to provide services from home or transferred work to other locations. Nearly 95% of our employees remain in a work-from-home status and have been effectively outfitted to continue to provide all necessary services to our clients. We will continue this work-from-home status in most locations this year, as the safety of our employees is a top priority. Additionally, for its employees, the Company has expanded sick leave for employees affected by COVID-19, expanded telemedicine internationally, provided special pay for certain employees involved in critical infrastructure who could not work from home, and expanded its FIS Cares program to benefit employees in need around the world. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to be accelerating digitization of banking and payment services by requiring, in many cases, banks and bank customers to transact through digital channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, providing money movement services, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform inhouse some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. In certain of the international markets in which we do business, we continue to experience growth on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Brazil, India, Canada and Australia. As a result of the Worldpay acquisition completed on July 31, 2019, FIS is now a global leader in the merchant solutions industry, with differentiated solutions throughout the payments market, including capabilities in global eCommerce, integrated payments, and enterprise payments and data security solutions in business-to-business ("B2B") payments. These solutions bring together advanced payments technologies at each stage of the transaction life cycle. The Worldpay acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to significantly expand our merchant acquiring solutions, including our capabilities in the growing eCommerce and integrated payments segments of the market, which are in demand among our merchant clients as they look for ways to integrate technology into their business models. The combination also favorably impacts our business mix with a greater concentration in higher growth and higher margin services. The Worldpay acquisition significantly increased our revenue as well as our amortization expense for acquired intangibles and our acquisition, integration and other costs. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our merchant processing revenue has been adversely impacted, particularly in the areas of travel, entertainment and hospitality, and we expect revenue will continue to be adversely impacted until the economic effects and government, company, and public travel restrictions due to the pandemic subside around the world. 28 Table of Contents Following the Worldpay acquisition, we are focused on completing post-merger integration to achieve potential incremental revenue opportunities and expense efficiencies created by the combination of the two companies. We have a history of successfully integrating the operations and technology platforms of acquired companies, including winding down legacy environments and consolidating platforms from other acquisitions into our environment. Based on prior integration experience, we developed integration plans to achieve the potential benefits created by the Worldpay acquisition. As of the end of the third quarter of 2020, our achievement of revenue and expense synergies remain on track to exceed our previously announced targets. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new products and services, evolving new business models and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking services to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point of sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. To facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to be accelerating digitization of payment services by r equiring, in many cases, businesses and consumers to transact through digital channels. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers and internet, retail and social media companies, could create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. These investments include both capital expenditures and operating expense related to hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. For discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our critical and significant accounting estimates subject to risk and uncertainties, see Notes 1, 2, 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Transactions with Related Parties See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 29 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 Revenue $ 3,197 $ 2,822 $ 9,236 $ 6,991 Cost of revenue 2,104 1,838 6,238 4,623 Gross profit 1,093 984 2,998 2,368 Selling, general and administrative expenses 862 757 2,613 1,435 Asset impairments 87 87 Operating income 231 140 385 846 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (84) (95) (252) (242) Other income (expense), net (4) 164 31 (8) Total other income (expense), net (88) 69 (221) (250) Earnings before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss) 143 209 164 596 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 121 48 94 119 Equity method investment earnings (loss) (5) (9) (18) Net earnings 22 156 61 459 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (2) (2) (7) (3) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 20 $ 154 $ 54 $ 456 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.03 $ 0.30 $ 0.09 $ 1.18 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 620 516 618 388 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.03 $ 0.29 $ 0.09 $ 1.15 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 627 524 626 396 Comparisons of three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Revenue increased $375 million, or 13%, for the three-month period ended September 30, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Revenue was adversely impacted by reduced payment processing volumes within our Merchant Solutions segment in certain verticals, primarily travel, entertainment and hospitality, and, to a lesser extent, transaction volume within our Banking Solutions segment, each as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Revenue increased $2,245 million, or 32%, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Revenue was adversely impacted by reduced payment processing volumes within our Merchant Solutions segment and, to a lesser extent, transaction volume within our Banking Solutions segment, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. See Segment Results of Operations below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue totaled $2,104 million and $1,838 million for the three-month periods and $6,238 million and $4,623 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit totaled $1,093 million and $984 million for the three-month periods and $2,998 million and $2,368 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue ("gross margin") was 34% and 35% for the three-month periods and 32% and 34% for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in gross profit for 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The decrease 30 Table of Contents in gross margin during the 2020 periods as compared to 2019 primarily resulted from higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense, partially offset by higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $105 million, or 14%, for the three-month period and $1,178 million, or 82%, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and higher acquisition, integration and other costs during the nine month period of 2020. These expenses were partially offset by lower discretionary spending during the COVID-19 pandemic. Asset Impairments During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $87 million, primarily related to certain computer software resulting from the Company's net realizable value analysis. Operating Income Operating income increased $91 million, or 65%, for the three-month period and decreased $461 million, or 54%, for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 as compared to 2019, respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue ("operating margin") was 7% and 5% for the three-month periods and 4% and 12% for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The changes in operating income for the three-month and nine-month periods of 2020 as compared to 2019, and the change in operating margin during the 2020 periods as compared to 2019, resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. Total Other Income (Expense), Net The decrease of $11 million in interest expense, net for the three-month period ended September 30, 2020, as compared to 2019 is primarily due to a lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt. The increase of $10 million in interest expense, net for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020 as compared to 2019, is primarily due to higher outstanding debt due to the Worldpay acquisition, mostly offset by a lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt. Other income (expense), net decreased $168 million to $4 million expense for the three-month period ended September 30, 2020, as compared to $164 million income for the three-month period ended September 30, 2019. Other income (expense), net increased $39 million to $31 million income for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2020, as compared to $(8) million expense for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019. Other income (expense), net for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020, primarily includes the fair value adjustment on certain assets and liabilities offset by foreign currency transaction remeasurement losses and the pending settlement recorded for the Reliance Trust claims, which is further described in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Other income (expense), net for the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019, primarily includes acquisition financing costs and the non-cash foreign currency impact of non-hedged Euro- and Pound Sterling-denominated notes issued to finance the Worldpay acquisition, during the period from the date of issue of the notes to the date of the acquisition. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes totaled $121 million and $48 million for the three-month periods and $94 million and $119 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 85% and 23% for the three-month periods and 57% and 20% for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The three and nine months ended September 30, 2020, include a one-time net remeasurement of certain deferred tax liabilities due to the increase in the U.K. corporate statutory tax rate from 17% to 19% enacted on July 22, 2020. Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss) FIS holds a 37% ownership stake in Cardinal, as further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. As a result, we recorded equity method investment losses of $0 million and $5 million for the three-month periods and $9 million and $18 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 31 Table of Contents Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest includes Virtus operations subsequent to acquisition in January 2020 and totaled $(2) million and $(2) million for the three-month periods and $(7) million and $(3) million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $20 million and $154 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.03 and $0.29 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and $54 million and $456 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.09 and $1.15 for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These results reflect the variances described above. Segment Results of Operations Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit), equity method investment earnings (loss), depreciation and amortization, and certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting . The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include purchase accounting adjustments and acquisition, integration and certain other costs. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of Adjusted EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. As the Company continues to execute on its integration workflows and optimize its portfolio of assets, the Company reclassified certain non-strategic businesses from Merchant and Banking into Corporate and Other in the quarter ended March 31, 2020, and recast all prior-period segment information presented. These operations represented less than 2% of third quarter and year-to-date 2020 revenue. A description of these segments is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the Adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Merchant Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 1,017 $ 705 $ 2,764 $ 852 Adjusted EBITDA $ 487 $ 365 $ 1,241 $ 397 Three months ended September 30: Revenue increased $312 million due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $278 million, including a favorable foreign currency impact of $12 million driven by a weaker U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Revenue was also positively impacted by $54 million due primarily to the shifted timing of the U.S.tax filing deadline from the second to the third quarter of 2020. Revenue was adversely impacted by declines in payment processing volumes in certain verticals, primarily travel, entertainment and hospitality, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Adjusted EBITDA increased $122 million, and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 390 basis points to 47.9%. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA primarily resulted from the incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to decreasing volumes of high-margin services as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue increased $1,912 million due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $1,928 million, including a favorable foreign currency impact of $3 million driven by a weaker U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Revenue was adversely impacted by declines in payment processing volumes as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 32 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA increased $844 million, and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 170 basis points to 44.9%. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA primarily resulted from the incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. The decrease in adjusted EBITDA margin was due to decreasing volumes of high-margin services as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Banking Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 1,507 $ 1,443 $ 4,447 $ 4,173 Adjusted EBITDA $ 653 $ 627 $ 1,876 $ 1,738 Three months ended September 30: Revenue increased $64 million, or 4.4%, primarily due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 1.9% and other items contributing an aggregate of 2.9%. Other items in Banking Solutions revenue were positively impacted by increased recurring revenue, including card production and prepaid card services driven by COVID-19 pandemic-related programs, partially offset by lower license revenue. Banking Solutions revenue was also adversely impacted by lower issuer processing due to the COVID-19 pandemic and an unfavorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing (0.5%), or approximately $7 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real. Adjusted EBITDA increased $26 million, or 4.1%, and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 20 basis points to 43.3%, primarily due to COVID-19 pandemic impacts to revenue mix. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue increased $274 million, or 6.6%, primarily due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 5.1% and other items contributing an aggregate of 3.4%. Other items in Banking Solutions revenue were positively impacted by COVID-19 pandemic-related programs including recurring revenue due to card production and prepaid card services and increased demand for digital banking offerings and non-recurring revenue due to Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loan processing, partially offset by lower license revenue. Banking Solutions revenue was also adversely impacted by lower issuer processing due to the COVID-19 pandemic. These items were partially offset by (1) a decrease in non-recurring revenue from Latin America payments contributing (0.8%); (2) a decrease in termination fees contributing (0.4%); and (3) an unfavorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing (0.8%), or approximately $31 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real and Indian Rupee. Adjusted EBITDA increased $138 million, or 7.9%, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 60 basis points to 42.2%, primarily due to the addition of higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Capital Market Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 626 $ 611 $ 1,886 $ 1,778 Adjusted EBITDA $ 286 $ 280 $ 853 $ 790 Three months ended September 30: Revenue increased $15 million, or 2.5%, primarily due to the purchase of a majority interest in Virtus Partners contributing 3.1% offset by other items contributing an aggregate of (1.5%) mainly driven by timing of software license renewals. Capital Markets had a favorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing 0.7%, or approximately $5 million, primarily driven by a weaker U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $6 million, or 2.1%, due to the revenue impacts mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 10 basis points to 45.7% primarily as a result of revenue mix. 33 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30: Revenue increased $108 million, or 6.1%, primarily due to the purchase of a majority interest in Virtus Partners contributing 3.4% and strong managed services growth and trading volumes contributing 2.8%. Capital Markets had an unfavorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing (0.1%), or approximately $2 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real. Adjusted EBITDA increased $63 million, or 8.0%, due to the revenue impacts mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 80 basis points to 45.2% primaril y due to ongoing expense initiatives and discretionary expense management. Corporate and Other Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2020 2019 2020 2019 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 47 $ 63 $ 139 $ 188 Adjusted EBITDA $ (69) $ (80) $ (209) $ (211) The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from certain non-strategic businesses. Three months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $16 million, or 25.4%, due to client attrition in non-strategic businesses. Adjusted EBITDA increased $11 million, or 13.8%, primarily due to lower discretionary expenses during the COVID-19 pandemic and operating expense synergy cost actions, partially offset by Adjusted EBITDA decline in non-strategic businesses. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $49 million, or 26.1%, due to client attrition in non-strategic businesses. Adjusted EBITDA increased $2 million, or 0.9%, primarily due to lower discretionary expenses during the COVID-19 pandemic and operating expense synergy cost actions, partially offset by Adjusted EBITDA decline in non-strategic businesses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, regulatory requirements, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. As of September 30, 2020, the Company had $4,227 million of available liquidity, including $1,826 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2,401 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility. Approximately $1,227 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities. Debt outstanding totaled $20.2 billion with an effective weighted average interest rate of 1.6%. Third quarter net cash provided by operating activities was $1,411 million. The Company's liquidity continued to improve in the third quarter as compared to the onset of the pandemic as reduced government lockdowns and shelter-in-place orders allowed for an increase in consumer spending, positively affecting our transaction volumes. Additionally, the volume of consumer refunds continued to decline, thereby reducing the higher-than-usual levels of credit that were extended at the onset of the pandemic to our merchant clients as part of the funds settlement process. Our liquidity could be impacted if economic conditions deteriorate or as a result of governmental measures that might be imposed in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. 34 Table of Contents The Company remains committed to reducing its leverage incurred in the Worldpay acquisition while ensuring ample liquidity and continues to expect to reach its target leverage in 2021. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. The Company paid dividends of $217 million during the quarter. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.35 per common share is payable on December 28, 2020, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 14, 2020. On July 20, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. Approximately $2.3 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of September 30, 2020. Management temporarily suspended share repurchases as a result of the Worldpay transaction to accelerate debt repayment. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $3,024 million and $1,741 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations were $1,283 million higher in the 2020 period primarily due to increased cash flow due to the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by lower net earnings from the COVID-19 pandemic and Worldpay integration-related expenses. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $838 million and $544 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We expect to continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our core business initiatives. We used $469 million and $6,629 million of cash (net of cash acquired) during the nine months ended September 30, 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily for the Virtus and Worldpay acquisitions, respectively. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Financing For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations through the nine months ended September 30, 2020, in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, except as disclosed in Notes 5 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 35 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 ("ASU 2018-15"), Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract . This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. FIS adopted ASU 2018-05 on January 1, 2020, using the prospective approach. The adoption of this new standard did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments . This ASU was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (collectively, "Topic 326"). The primary objectives of Topic 326 are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments, such as trade receivables, based on lifetime expected credit losses and to broaden the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. The new guidance also applies to contract assets arising from contracts with customers. FIS adopted Topic 326 on January 1, 2020, using the modified retrospective approach and recorded an immaterial cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings as of January 1, 2020. Recently Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year had or is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures.