Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1: Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the Company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Companys sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include, without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; the failure to meet financial goals to grow the business in Brazil after the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; the risks of reduction in revenue from the loss of existing and/or potential customers in Brazil after the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and 34 Table of Contents other risks detailed elsewhere in this document and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Overview FIS is a global leader in financial services technology with a focus on retail and institutional banking, payments, asset management and wealth and retirement, risk and compliance and outsourcing solutions. Through the depth and breadth of our solutions portfolio, global capabilities and domain expertise, FIS serves more than 20,000 clients in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 52,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing, financial software and banking solutions. Providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that empowers the financial world, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. The completion of the SunGard acquisition on November 30, 2015 increased our existing portfolio to include solutions that automate a wide range of complex business processes for financial services institutions and corporate and government treasury departments. FIS reports its financial performance based on three segments: Integrated Financial Solutions (IFS), Global Financial Solutions (GFS) and Corporate and Other. A description of these segments is included in Note 13 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. The SunGard acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to expand beyond our traditional banking and payments markets into the institutional and wholesale side of financial institutions as well as other capital markets organizations. It also significantly expanded our existing solutions and client base in wealth and retirement, treasury and corporate payments. These solutions are in demand among our regional and community financial institution clients as they look for ways to replace highly regulated fee revenue. The combination also favorably impacted our revenue mix, with a greater concentration of license revenue and higher margin services. Through the integration of SunGard into our existing operations, we achieved significant cost savings around administration and technology expenses and exited 2017 with a cost synergy run-rate savings exceeding $325 million. We are actively migrating many financial institutions to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice-banking channels. We are focused on enabling our clients to deliver this experience to their customers through our integrated solutions 35 Table of Contents and services. We continue to innovate and invest in these integrated solutions and services to assist clients as they address this market demand. This is an area of ongoing competition from global banks, international providers and disruptive technology innovators. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe digital payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors and large merchants are investing in and innovating digital payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of digital payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which digital payment technologies or solutions will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well-positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. High profile North American merchant payment card information security breaches have pushed the payment card industry towards EMV integrated circuit cards as financial institutions, card networks and merchants seek to improve information security and reduce fraud costs. We invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards so we can continue to guide our clients through this technology transition and grow our card-driven businesses. A large portion of the migration to EMV is complete. The remaining portion will continue as financial institutions issue replacement cards. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our ongoing international business continued to experience growth in the first nine months of 2018 on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. For the full year of 2018, we anticipate an approximate $55 million adverse impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation. On September 28, 2018, FIS entered into an agreement with Banco Bradesco to unwind the Brazilian Venture. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture will spin-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. The subsidiary will enter into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco that include software application licensing and management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. Banco Bradesco will then own 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will thereafter perform internally. FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. Post-closing, the transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in FIS reported revenue of approximately $200 million with minimal impact to its net earnings. In addition, it resulted in impairment charges of $95 million in the third quarter of 2018. The transaction is subject to Brazilian regulatory approval and FIS expects to complete the transaction in the first half of 2019. For further detail on our Brazilian Venture see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and Item 1A. Risk Factors included in Part II in this report on Form 10-Q. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide 36 Table of Contents range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. As described in Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited), on July 31, 2017, we sold a majority interest in certain of our consulting businesses to affiliates of CD&R. These businesses had lower margins than many of our other businesses. The consulting businesses sold were included within the GFS and IFS segments. Also, on February 1, 2017, we sold our PS&E business, which had been included in our Corporate and Other segment. These divestitures affect the comparability of our results of operations for the 2018 and 2017 periods presented. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , except for "Revenue Recognition" noted below. Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenue in a number of ways, including from the delivery of account- or transaction-based processing, software as a service ("SaaS"), business process as a service ("BPaaS"), cloud offerings, software licensing, software related services, and professional services. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same client. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be combined or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective, whether the solutions or services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation, and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Our individual contracts also frequently include multiple promised solutions or services. At contract inception, we assess the solutions and services promised in our contracts with customers and identify a performance obligation for each promise to transfer to the customer a solution or service (or bundle of solutions or services) that is distinct - i.e., if a solution or service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package and if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. We must apply judgment in these circumstances in determining whether individual promised solutions or services can be considered distinct or should instead be combined with other promised solutions or services in the contract. We recognize revenue when or as we satisfy a performance obligation by transferring control of a solution or service to a customer. We must use judgment to determine the appropriate measure of progress for performance obligations satisfied over time and the timing of when the customer obtains control for performance obligations satisfied at a point in time. Judgment is also required in estimating and allocating variable consideration to one or more, but not all, performance obligations in a contract, determining the standalone selling prices of each performance obligation, and allocating the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation in a contract. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar contracts or classes of clients could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Notes 2 and 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Transactions with Related Parties See Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 37 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 As Adjusted * As Adjusted * Revenue $ 2,084 $ 2,096 $ 6,256 $ 6,502 Cost of revenue 1,364 1,386 4,192 4,397 Gross profit 720 710 2,064 2,105 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 283 325 980 1,104 Asset impairments 95 95 Operating income 342 385 989 1,001 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (80 ) (84 ) (225 ) (267 ) Other income (expense), net (58 ) (182 ) (60 ) (123 ) Total other income (expense), net (138 ) (266 ) (285 ) (390 ) Earnings before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss) 204 119 704 611 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 37 50 122 260 Equity method investment earnings (loss) (4 ) (11 ) Net earnings 163 69 571 351 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (9 ) (10 ) (23 ) (24 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 154 $ 59 $ 548 $ 327 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.47 $ 0.18 $ 1.67 $ 0.99 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 328 331 329 330 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.47 $ 0.18 $ 1.65 $ 0.98 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 331 336 333 335 * See Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Comparisons of three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Revenue decreased $12 million , or 0.6% , during the three-month period, due to (1) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Capco consulting business and the risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017 and (2) the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit during the third quarter of 2018. These decreases were partially offset by (1) growth in retail payments; (2) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business); (3) growth in GFS banking and payments solutions in North America; and (4) payments growth in Latin America. Additionally, the three months ended September 30, 2018 was also impacted from a $30 million unfavorable foreign currency impact primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar in 2018 versus the Brazilian Real. Revenue decreased $246 million , or 3.8% during the nine-month period, due to (1) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Capco consulting business and the risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017; (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017; and (3) a decline in retail check processing volumes and the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit during the third quarter of 2018. This decrease was partially offset by (1) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business); (2) growth in GFS banking and payments solutions in North America; (3) growth in corporate and digital solutions; (4) growth in retail payments; and (5) payments growth in Latin America. Additionally, the nine months 38 Table of Contents ended September 30, 2018 was also impacted by a $9 million unfavorable foreign currency impact primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar in 2018 versus the Brazilian Real. See "Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited)" below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue totaled $1,364 million and $1,386 million during the three-month periods and $4,192 million and $4,397 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $720 million and $710 million during the respective three-month periods and $2,064 million and $2,105 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 34.5% and 33.9% during the three-month periods and 33.0% and 32.4% during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The change in gross profit during the 2018 period as compared to 2017 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The gross profit percentage change during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 , as compared to 2017 , was positively affected by the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017 as well as cost management initiatives. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $283 million and $325 million during the three-month periods and $980 million and $1,104 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The year-over-year decrease is primarily driven by the sale of PS&E during the first quarter of 2017, the sale of the Capco consulting business and risk and compliance consulting business during the third quarter of 2017, the sale of Certegy Check Services business unit during the third quarter of 2018 and cost management initiatives. Asset Impairments During September 2018, as a result of entering into an agreement to unwind the Brazilian Venture that the Company operates with Banco Bradesco, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $95 million , including $42 million for the Brazilian Venture contract intangible asset, $25 million for goodwill, and $28 million for the assets being held for sale that will be transferred to Banco Bradesco upon closing of the agreement (see Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)). Operating Income Operating income totaled $342 million and $385 million during the three-month periods and $989 million and $1,001 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 16.4% and 18.4% during the three-month periods and 15.8% and 15.4% during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. The changes in operating income for the three-month and nine-month periods of 2018 as compared to 2017 resulted from the variances addressed above. The change in operating margin during the 2018 periods was negatively impacted by asset impairments. Excluding the asset impairments, operating margins improved primarily from cost management initiatives and the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense is typically the primary component of total other income (expense); however, during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2017, other income (expense) was also a significant component. The decrease of $4 million and $42 million in interest expense during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the 2017 periods is primarily due to a lower weighted average interest rate on the outstanding debt. Other income (expense) net decreased $124 million for the three-month periods and $63 million for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 as compared to the 2017 periods. Other income (expense) for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 includes a pre-tax loss of $54 million on the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit. Other income (expense) net for the three-month period ended September 30, 2017, includes a pre-tax loss of $33 million on the sale of the Capco consulting and risk and compliance business and other divestitures and a pre-tax charge of $167 million in tender premiums and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs on the repurchase of approximately $2,000 million in aggregate principal of debt securities. Additionally, the nine months ended September 30, 2017 also include a pre- 39 Table of Contents tax gain of $85 million on the sale of the PS&E business and a pre-tax charge of approximately $25 million due to the redemption of the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the pay down of the 2018 Term Loans, consisting of the call premium on the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Income tax expense totaled $37 million and $50 million during the three-month periods and $122 million and $260 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , resulting in effective tax rates of 18% and 42% for the three-month periods and 17% and 43% for the the nine-month periods, respectively. The 2018 effective tax rate includes the impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% due to tax reform enacted December 22, 2017. In addition to the federal tax rate of 35% for 2017, the 2017 effective tax rates include the impact of the write-off of goodwill with no tax basis in connection with the sale of our PS&E business and additional taxes related to book basis in the units of Cardinal in excess of tax basis. The Company included provisional amounts in its December 31, 2017 annual financial statements for certain tax reform items. These items were provisional as the data necessary for their completion was not fully available. As the amounts are finalized during the measurement period, the required adjustments, if any, will be recorded in the quarter when the final amount is determined. Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss) On July 31, 2017, FIS obtained a minority equity interest in Cardinal as further described in Note 12 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). We recorded losses from this equity method investment totaling $4 million and $11 million during the three- and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 , respectively. Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $154 million and $59 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.47 and $0.18 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively, and $548 million and $327 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $1.65 and $0.98 for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. These results reflect the variances described above. Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net income (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization, including amortization of purchased intangibles), plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, "Segment Reporting." The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments; acquisition, integration and certain other costs; and asset impairments. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Integrated Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue $ 1,090 $ 1,038 $ 3,275 $ 3,162 Adjusted EBITDA $ 496 $ 469 $ 1,440 $ 1,374 40 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30: Revenue increased $52 million , or 5.0% , due to (1) growth in retail payments contributing 2.7%; (2) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business) contributing 2.3%; and (3) growth in corporate and digital solutions contributing 0.5%. These items were partially offset by the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business contributing (0.5%). Adjusted EBITDA increased $27 million , or 5.8% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 30 basis points to 45.5% primarily driven by operating efficiencies. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue increased $113 million , or 3.6% , due to (1) increased volumes in banking and wealth solutions (excluding the effects of the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business) contributing 2.5%; (2) growth in corporate and digital solutions contributing 1.0%; and (3) growth in retail payments contributing 0.9%. These items were partially offset by the sale of the risk and compliance consulting business contributing (0.8%). Adjusted EBITDA increased $66 million , or 4.8% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 50 basis points to 44.0% primarily driven by a revenue mix shift and operating efficiencies. Global Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue $ 916 $ 975 $ 2,742 $ 3,064 Adjusted EBITDA $ 355 $ 337 $ 973 $ 940 Three months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $59 million , or 6.1% , primarily due to (1) the sale of the Capco consulting business and other divestitures contributing (5.4%); and (2) unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (3.1%) or approximately $30 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real. These decreases were partially offset by (1) growth in GFS banking and payments solutions in North America contributing 1.7%; and (2) and payments growth in Latin America contributing 0.9%. Adjusted EBITDA increased $18 million , or 5.3% , primarily due to the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 420 basis points to 38.8% resulting from the positive impact of the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017, as well as continued cost management initiatives. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $322 million , or 10.5% , primarily due to (1) the sale of the Capco consulting business and other divestitures contributing (11.5%); and (2) unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.4%) or approximately $11 million driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real, partially offset by (1) growth in GFS banking and payments solutions in North America contributing 0.7%; and (2) payments growth in Latin America contributing 0.7%. Adjusted EBITDA increased $33 million , or 3.5% , primarily resulting from favorable revenue mix and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 480 basis points to 35.5% resulting from the positive impact of the Capco consulting business divestiture during 2017, as well as continued cost management initiatives. 41 Table of Contents Corporate and Other (in millions) Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2018 2017 2018 2017 Revenue $ 78 $ 83 $ 239 $ 276 Adjusted EBITDA $ (43 ) $ (55 ) $ (143 ) $ (151 ) The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from non-strategic businesses, including our global commercial services business, Certegy Check Services business unit (which was divested on August 31, 2018), and PS&E business (which was divested on February 1, 2017). Three months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $5 million , or 6.0% , primarily from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit during the third quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA increased $12 million , or 21.8% , primarily resulting from the early results of our data center consolidation program. Nine months ended September 30: Revenue decreased $37 million , or 13.4% , primarily from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, as well as a decline in retail check processing volumes and the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit during the third quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA increased $8 million , or 5.3% , primarily resulting from a reduction in infrastructure technology expenses and the early results of of our data center consolidation program, partially offset by the revenue variance noted above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility and the Commercial Paper Program described in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As of September 30, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $632 million and long-term debt of $9.0 billion , including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $632 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $367 million is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.32 per common share was paid on September 28, 2018 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 14, 2018. On July 20, 2017 our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. 42 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $1,288 million and $1,079 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations were $209 million higher in the 2018 period primarily due to (1) higher net earnings during 2018 due to the impact of the reduction in the U.S. federal income tax rate from 35% to 21% due to tax reform enacted December 22, 2017 resulting in lower U.S. federal income tax payments and (2) lower trade receivables from increased collections resulting from a reduction in days sales outstanding. These increases were partially offset by U.S. federal estimated income tax payments normally due in the third and fourth quarters of 2017 that were paid during the first quarter of 2018 due to the Hurricane Irma Relief Program and timing of working capital. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $464 million and $448 million in capital expenditures (excluding capital leases) during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Financing For more information regarding the Companys long-term debt and financing activity see Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations during the first nine months of 2018 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 22, 2018, except as disclosed in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 (ASU 2016-15), Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The amendments are meant to reduce the diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance as to the presentation on the statement of cash flows for eight specific cash flow issues, which are 1) debt prepayment for debt extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing, 3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, 4) proceeds for the settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions received from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period. FIS elected to adopt this standard in the third quarter of 2017. FIS has applied the presentation guidance above to its statements of cash flows and all adjustments have been reflected on a retrospecive basis. The primary impact of adopting the new guidance is our 2017 presentation of debt prepayment and related costs being reflected in financing activities rather than operating activities. In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12 (ASU 2017-12), Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815) - Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities. The amendments were meant to improve the financial reporting of hedging relationships to better portray the economic results of an entitys risk management activities in its financial statements. The amendments in this update also make certain targeted improvements to simplify the application of the hedge accounting guidance in current GAAP. ASU 2017-12 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years; the ASU allows for early adoption in any interim period after issuance of the update. FIS elected to adopt this 43 Table of Contents standard as of January 1, 2018. The adoption of this ASU did not have an impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07 (ASU 2017-07), Compensation - Retirement Benefits. The ASU improves the presentation of net periodic pension cost and net periodic postretirement benefit cost in the statements of operations. Under ASU 2017-07, the service cost component of the net periodic benefit cost is disclosed in the same income statement line item as other employee compensation costs arising from services rendered during the period, and the other components are reported separately from the line item that includes the service cost and outside of any subtotal of operating income. ASU 2017-07 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and early adoption is permitted. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2017-07 as of January 1, 2018. There was no material impact on the Company's Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) resulting from the adoption of this guidance. In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-18 (ASU 2016-18), Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash. ASU 2016-18 requires companies to include restricted amounts with Cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning and end of period total amounts shown on the Statements of Cash Flows. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-18 as of January 1, 2018. FIS had no restricted cash during 2017 or 2018. As a result, there was no effect on the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01 (ASU 2016-01), Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities. ASU 2016-01 amends guidance on the classification and measurement of financial instruments, including significant revisions in accounting related to the classification and measurement of investments in equity securities and presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities when the fair value option is elected. The amendment requires equity securities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through net earnings and amends certain disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. In the period of adoption, the Company is required to reclassify the unrealized gains/losses on equity securities within accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) to retained earnings. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-03, Technical Corrections and Improvements to Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10), which clarified certain aspects of the previously issued ASU. FIS adopted the provisions of ASU 2016-01 as of January 1, 2018. As a result, there was no material effect on the Companys Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09 (ASU 2014-09), Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). ASU 2014-09 amends substantially all authoritative literature for revenue recognition, including industry-specific requirements, and converges the guidance under this topic with that of the International Financial Reporting Standards. It also includes guidance on accounting for the incremental costs of obtaining and costs incurred to fulfill a contract with a customer. The ASU implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to Topic 606, including further guidance on principal versus agent consideration, clarification on identifying performance obligations and accounting for licenses of intellectual property. The effective date of the standard was postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2018. Entities can transition to the standard with retrospective application to the earliest years presented in their financial statements, retrospectively using certain practical expedients, or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We adopted the new standard using the retrospective method with the application of certain practical expedients . The largest impacts from the adoption of Topic 606 on our revenue recognition are related to the following areas: Certain revenues, particularly those related to interchange and third-party network fees associated with our payment processing business, previously recorded on a gross basis as a principal are now recorded on a net basis as an agent to the extent the Company does not control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer. Recognition of certain term license early renewals are now deferred until the conclusion of the term in effect at the time of renewal. Previously, term license early renewals were generally recognized upon execution of the renewal agreement. We now recognize the license portion of software rental fees in certain of our global trading, asset management, and securities processing businesses upon delivery. Previously, software license rental fees were recognized ratably over the rental period as the payments became due and payable. 44 Table of Contents Impacts related to other changes introduced by the standard were substantially less significant than those listed above. Upon retrospective application of Topic 606, our revenue decreased by approximately $455 million and $410 million and net earnings decreased approximately $58 million and $43 million for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. We recorded a net reduction to opening retained earnings of approximately $23 million as of January 1, 2016 due to the cumulative impact of adopting the standard. The impact of Topic 606 on our 2017 and 2016 operating results may or may not be representative of the impact on subsequent years results. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to recognize leases on-balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842; ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases; and ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements (collectively, the new standard). The new standard establishes a right-of-use model (ROU) that requires a lessee to recognize a ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases will be classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. Under the new standard, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The new standard is effective for public business entities on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application. If an entity chooses the second option, the transition requirements for existing leases also apply to leases entered into between the date of initial application and the effective date. The entity must also recast its comparative period financial statements and provide the disclosures required by the new standard for the comparative periods. We will adopt the new standard on January 1, 2019 and use the effective date as our date of initial application. Consequently, financial information will not be updated and the disclosures required under the new standard will not be provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019. The new standard provides a number of optional practical expedients in transition. We expect to elect the "package of practical expedients," which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We do not expect to elect the use-of-hindsight or the practical expedient pertaining to land easements. The new standard also provides practical expedients for an entitys ongoing accounting including short-term lease recognition and measurement exemption and non-separation of lease and non-lease components by asset class. We are currently assessing the extent to which we will elect these practical expedients. We expect that this standard will have an immaterial effect on results of operations. While we continue to assess all of the effects of adoption, we currently believe the most significant effects relate to the recognition of new ROU assets and lease liabilities on our balance sheet for our real estate operating leases and providing new disclosures about our leasing activities. On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13), Financial Instrument - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. This ASU's primary objectives are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments (e.g., trade receivables) based on expected credit losses and broadens the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. Available-for-sale securities should continue to be recognized in a similar manner to current GAAP; however, the allowance should be presented as an allowance instead of a write-down of the basis of the asset. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2018. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation, financial position, or results of operations. On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 (ASU 2018-15), Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract. This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The provisions in ASU 2018-15 should 45 Table of Contents be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. For public business entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on our financial position and results of operations.