Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the Company, projected revenue or expense synergies, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, deleveraging plans, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Companys sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, are forward-looking statements. In many cases, forward-looking statements can identified by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include the following, without limitation: the outbreak of the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") and measures to reduce its spread, including the impact of governmental or voluntary actions such as business shutdowns and stay-at-home orders; the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts, including the general impact of an economic recession, reductions in consumer and business spending, and instability of the financial markets across the globe; the economic and other impacts of COVID-19 on our clients which affect the sales of our solutions and services and the implementation of such solutions; the risk of losses in the event of defaults by merchants (or other parties) to which we extend credit in our card settlement operations or in respect of any chargeback liability; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including those resulting from COVID-19 or other pandemics, intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the U.S. and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the risk that the Worldpay transaction will not provide the expected benefits, or that we will not be able to achieve the cost or revenue synergies anticipated; the risk that the integration of FIS and Worldpay will be more difficult, time-consuming or expensive than anticipated; the risk that other acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from other acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; 20 Table of Contents competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed in this document under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, and in the Risk Factors and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on our forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of our forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for merchants, banks and capital markets firms globally. Our over 55,000 employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests by applying our scale, deep expertise and data-driven insights. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and improve the experience for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical solutions and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. FIS evaluates possible acquisitions that might contribute to our growth or performance on an ongoing basis. We also develop new solutions which enhance our client offerings. Through our acquisition of Worldpay on July 31, 2019, FIS is now a global leader in financial technology, solutions and services for merchants, as well as for banks and capital markets. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of the Worldpay acquisition. FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. As FIS continues to execute on its integration workflows and optimize its portfolio of assets, it reclassified certain non-strategic businesses from Merchant and Banking into Corporate and Other in the quarter ended March 31, 2020 and recast all prior-period segment information presented. A description of our segments is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing services, payment transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, substantially all of its revenue is recurring. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with recognition at a point in time and are less predictable. As U.S. and foreign governmental authorities imposed social distancing, shelter-in-place or total lock-down orders due to the COVID-19 pandemic, spending has declined, most notably in travel, restaurants, entertainment, and retail, resulting in a rapid deterioration in payments volume and transaction trends on a worldwide basis beginning in March 2020, which adversely impacted, and continues to adversely impact, revenue in our payments businesses that earn transaction-based fees. Revenue is 21 Table of Contents primarily being impacted by declines in payment processing volumes within our Merchant Solutions segment as well as lower issuer processing, debit network and account transaction volumes within our Banking Solutions segment. In addition, we may experience a slowdown in corporate decision-making on sales and implementation of our solutions, as well as on software licenses and professional services. These changes in spending appear likely to adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition in the second quarter of 2020 and possibly beyond, although the magnitude and duration of their ultimate effect is not possible to predict. However, we have continued to prioritize investments and products that help address the needs of our clients in order to increase the Companys potential to resume strong revenue growth following the pandemic. In addition, we have recently extended higher-than-usual levels of credit to our merchant clients as part of funds settlement in connection with payments to their customers, for, among other things, refunds for cancelled trips and events. We are exposed to losses if our merchant customers cease operations and are unable to repay the credit we have extended or their liability for chargebacks. This increase in extended credit or potential liability for chargebacks did not have a material impact on our liquidity or results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2020, although certain of our merchant clients have ceased doing business, at least for a period of time, and we continue to monitor their impact on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. However, delays in implementation of our solutions caused by the uncertainty of the COVID-19 pandemic may temporarily slow revenue growth to an extent not yet determined. Over the last four years, we have moved approximately 70% of our server compute to our FIS cloud located in our strategic data centers, and our goal is to increase that percentage to 73% by the end of 2020 and approximately 80% by the end of 2021. This allows us to further enhance security for our clients data and increases the flexibility and speed with which we can provide services and solutions to our clients, eventually at lesser cost. Concurrently, we have continued to consolidate our data centers, closing seven additional data centers in 2019. Our consolidation has generated a savings for the Company as of the end of the first quarter of 2020 of approximately $210 million in run-rate annual expense reduction since the programs inception in mid-2016. We plan to close and consolidate approximately 13 more data centers by the end of 2021, which should result in additional run-rate annual expense reduction of approximately $40 million. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions and services in order to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We have increased our investments in these areas in each of the last three years. Our innovation efforts have recently resulted in bringing to market our Modern Banking Platform that is among the first cloud-native core banking solutions. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. We have continued to innovate to help our clients through the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, we have leveraged our Real Time Lending service to help banking clients process loans under the CARES Act and are assisting a number of U.S. states to enable online purchasing of food for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program ("SNAP") benefit recipients under a pilot program run by the U.S. Department of Agriculture ("USDA"). While this does not materially impact our revenue, these steps show the ability to leverage our technology and solutions during the pandemic. We have also helped our clients and communities through this period by providing virtual terminals, temporarily eliminating minimum transaction amounts and waiving certain fees for small merchants, contributing masks and supplies to the communities in which we do business, and donating prepaid cards to military families and children in need. FIS has been carefully monitoring the effects of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as conditions continue to evolve. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Company has taken several actions to protect its employees while maintaining business continuity, including implementing its comprehensive Pandemic Plan. The Pandemic Plan includes site-specific service and 22 Table of Contents client plans as well as travel restrictions, medical response protocols, work-from-home strategies and enhanced cleaning within our locations. As a critical infrastructure provider for the global economy, FIS continues to operate around the world to serve our clients. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including restricting employee travel, developing social distancing plans for our employees and cancelling physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as we determine are in the best interests of our employees, clients and business partners. Where government lock-downs have prohibited or slowed down certain functions at specific locations, FIS has outfitted employees to provide certain of such services from home or transferred such work to other locations. Additionally for its employees, the Company has expanded sick leave for employees affected by COVID-19, expanded telemedicine internationally, provided special pay for certain employees involved in critical infrastructure who could not work from home, and expanded its FIS Cares program to benefit employees in need around the world. We are also taking several actions to manage discretionary expenses, including limiting travel, reducing incentive compensation and decreasing third-party spending as well as accelerating automation and functional alignment across the organization. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to be accelerating digitization of banking and payment services by requiring, in many cases, banks and bank customers to transact through digital channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, providing money movement services, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform inhouse some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. In certain of the international markets in which we do business, we continue to experience growth on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Brazil, India, Canada and Australia. As a result of the Worldpay acquisition completed on July 31, 2019, FIS is now a global leader in the merchant solutions industry, with differentiated solutions throughout the payments market, including capabilities in global eCommerce, U.S. integrated payments, and enterprise payments and data security solutions in business-to-business ("B2B") payments. These solutions bring together advanced payments technologies at each stage of the transaction life cycle. The Worldpay acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to significantly expand our merchant acquiring solutions, including our capabilities in the growing eCommerce and integrated payments segments of the market, which are in demand among our merchant clients as they look for ways to integrate technology into their business models. The combination also favorably impacts our business mix with a greater concentration in higher growth and higher margin services. The Worldpay acquisition significantly increased our revenue as well as our amortization expense for acquired intangibles and our acquisition, integration and other costs. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, our merchant processing revenues have been adversely impacted, particularly in the areas of airlines, hospitality, restaurants and retail, and we expect will continue to be adversely impacted until the economic effects of the pandemic subside. 23 Table of Contents Following the Worldpay acquisition, we are focused on completing post-merger integration to achieve potential incremental revenue opportunities and expense efficiencies created by the combination of the two companies. We have a history of successfully integrating the operations and technology platforms of acquired companies, including winding down legacy environments and consolidating platforms from other acquisitions into our environment. Based on prior integration experience, we developed integration plans to achieve the potential benefits created by the Worldpay acquisition. As of the end of the first quarter of 2020, our achievement of expense and revenue synergies is ahead of schedule. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new products and services, evolving new business models and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking services to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point-of-sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients evolving needs. In order to facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to be accelerating digitization of payment services by r equiring, in many cases, businesses and consumers to transact through digital channels. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers, internet, retail and social media companies, could create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. These investments include both capital expenditures and operating expense related to hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019. For discussion regarding the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our critical and significant accounting estimates subject to risk and uncertainties, see Notes 1, 2, 5 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements. Transactions with Related Parties See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 24 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Revenue $ 3,078 $ 2,057 Cost of revenue 2,089 1,381 Gross profit 989 676 Selling, general and administrative expenses 881 361 Operating income 108 315 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (80) (75) Other income (expense), net (39) (52) Total other income (expense), net (119) (127) Earnings before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss) (11) 188 Provision (benefit) for income taxes (30) 32 Equity method investment earnings (loss) (1) (7) Net earnings 18 149 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (3) (1) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 15 $ 148 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.02 $ 0.46 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 616 323 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.02 $ 0.45 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 625 326 Comparisons of three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 Revenue Revenue increased $1,021 million, or 50%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to (1) incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition; (2) increased network volumes and digital banking growth in Banking; and (3) growth in Capital Markets driven by increased managed services, brokerage volumes, license execution, and the purchase of the majority interest in Virtus Partners. These increases were offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact of $16 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real and British Pound Sterling. See Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue increased $708 million, or 51%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 resulting in a gross profit increase of $313 million, or 46%. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 32% and 33% during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in gross profit percentage during the 2020 period as compared to 2019 primarily resulted from higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $520 million, or 144%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 primarily due to (1) incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and (2) higher acquisition, integration and other costs. 25 Table of Contents Operating Income Operating income decreased $207 million, or 66%, for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 2019. Operating income as a percentage of revenue ("operating margin") was 4% and 15% for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The changes in operating income for the three-month period of 2020 as compared to 2019, and the change in operating margin during the 2020 period as compared to 2019, resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. Total Other Income (Expense), Net The increase of $5 million in interest expense, net for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to 2019 is primarily due to higher outstanding debt due to the Worldpay acquisition, mainly offset by a lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt. Other income (expense), net decreased $13 million to $39 million expense for the three-month period ended March 31, 2020 as compared to $52 million expense for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019. Other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 includes foreign currency transaction remeasurement losses and a fair value adjustment on convertible Visa Inc. Series B preferred stock and related contingent value rights liability acquired from Worldpay. Other income (expense), net for the three-month period ended March 31, 2019 includes acquisition financing costs related to the Worldpay acquisition. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Provision (benefit) for income taxes totaled $(30) million and $32 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, resulting in effective tax rates of 273% and 17% for the three-month periods, respectively. Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss) FIS holds a 37% ownership stake in Cardinal, as further described in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. As a result, we recorded equity method investment losses of $1 million and $7 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest includes Virtus operations subsequent to acquisition in January 2020 and totaled $(3) million and $(1) million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $15 million and $148 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.02 and $0.45 for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These results reflect the variances described above. Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization) plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting . The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments and acquisition, integration and certain other costs. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report. As the Company continues to execute on its integration workflows and optimize its portfolio of assets, the Company reclassified certain non-strategic businesses from Merchant and Banking into Corporate and Other and recast all prior-period segment information presented. These operations represented less than 2% of first quarter 2020 revenue. A description of 26 Table of Contents these segments is included in Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Merchant Solutions Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In millions) Revenue $ 935 $ 50 Adjusted EBITDA $ 422 $ 10 Three months ended March 31: Revenue increased $885 million due to incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $889 million, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact of $4 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Revenue was also adversely impacted by declines in payment processing volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Adjusted EBITDA increased $412 million, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 45.1%, primarily resulting from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Banking Solutions Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In millions) Revenue $ 1,462 $ 1,373 Adjusted EBITDA $ 614 $ 558 Three months ended March 31: Revenue increased $89 million, or 6.5%, due to (1) incremental revenue from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 6.8%; and (2) other items contributing an aggregate of 2.8% due to increased recurring revenue related to network volumes and digital banking growth. These items were partially offset by (1) a decrease in non-recurring revenue from Latin America payments contributing (1.9%) and (2) a decrease in termination fees contributing (0.5%). Banking Solutions had an unfavorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing (0.7%), or approximately $9 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real. Revenue was also adversely impacted by lower issuer processing, debit network and account transaction volumes due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Adjusted EBITDA increased $56 million, or 10.0%, and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 140 basis points to 42.0%, primarily due to the addition of higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Capital Market Solutions Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In millions) Revenue $ 631 $ 572 Adjusted EBITDA $ 280 $ 239 Three months ended March 31: Revenue increased $59 million, or 10.3%, primarily due to (1) the purchase of a majority interest in Virtus Partners contributing 3.7%; (2) strong managed services growth and brokerage volumes contributing 3.3%; and (3) other items contributing an aggregate of 3.6% due to license execution on new and renewal transactions and increased professional 27 Table of Contents services. Capital Markets had an unfavorable foreign currency impact to growth contributing (0.4%), or approximately $2 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $41 million, or 17.2%, due to the revenue impacts mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 260 basis points to 44.4% due to favorable revenue mix and continued cost management. Corporate and Other Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In millions) Revenue $ 50 $ 62 Adjusted EBITDA $ (69) $ (78) The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from certain non-strategic businesses. Three months ended March 31: Revenue decreased $12 million, or 18.0%, due to client loss in non-strategic businesses. Adjusted EBITDA increased $9 million, or 11.5%, primarily due to the health care and other benefit plan expenses recorded in the first quarter of 2019 along with a decrease in compensation expenses in 2020, partially offset by incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2020, we had cash and cash equivalents of $1,373 million and debt of $20.4 billion, including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $1,373 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $652 million is held by our foreign entities. As of March 31, 2020, the Company had approximately $3,018 million of available liquidity, including $1,373 million of cash and cash equivalents and $1,645 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility. In March 2020, when the commercial paper markets were less liquid due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company borrowed under its $5,500 million Revolving Credit Facility to pay the commercial paper maturities. Since March 31, 2020, the commercial paper markets have become more liquid and, as a result, the Company has been able to repay some of the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility with new commercial paper issuances. The Company remains committed to reducing its leverage incurred in the Worldpay acquisition while ensuring ample liquidity. Given the impacts associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company now expects to extend the time period to achieve its target leverage into 2021. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, 28 Table of Contents results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, the duration and impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.35 per common share is payable on June 26, 2020 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 12, 2020. On July 20, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. Approximately $2.3 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of March 31, 2020. Management temporarily suspended share repurchases as a result of the Worldpay transaction to accelerate debt repayment. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $383 million and $294 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations were $89 million higher in the 2020 period primarily due to increased cash flow due to the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by the timing of settlement activities, lower net earnings from the COVID-19 pandemic, and Worldpay integration-related expenses. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $306 million and $145 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In 2020, we expect to continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our core business initiatives. We used $402 million of cash (net of cash acquired) during the three months ended March 31, 2020, for the Virtus acquisition. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Financing For more information regarding the Companys debt and financing activity see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations during the first three months of 2020 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019, except as disclosed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 ("ASU 2018-15"), Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract . This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. FIS adopted ASU 2018-05 on January 1, 2020, using the prospective approach. The adoption of this new standard did not have a material impact on the Companys consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments . This ASU was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (collectively, "Topic 326"). The primary objectives of Topic 326 are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments, such as trade receivables, based on lifetime expected credit losses and to broaden the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. The new guidance also applies to contract assets arising from contracts with customers. FIS adopted Topic 326 on January 1, 2020, using the modified retrospective approach and recorded an immaterial cumulative effect adjustment in retained earnings as of January 1, 2020. Recently Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted No other new accounting pronouncement issued or effective during the fiscal year had or is expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or disclosures.