Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Employees As of December 31, 2012 , we had more than 35,000 employees, including approximately 21,000 employees principally employed outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. workforce currently is unionized. Approximately 11,100 of our employees, primarily in Brazil and Germany, are represented by labor unions. We consider our relations with employees to be good. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.fisglobal.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, on that website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Corporate Governance Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website and are available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who mails a request to the Corporate Secretary, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32204 USA. Other corporate governance-related documents can be found at our website as well. However, the information found on our website is not a part of this or any other report. Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. There has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. In addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. These consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential customers and may reduce our number of existing customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. Further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately 10 Table of Contents meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. We operate in a competitive business environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The market for our services is intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See "Item I. Business. Competition." Global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. The global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. Any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. Constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution customers' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. A significant number of our customers and potential customers may hold sovereign debt or be subject to emerging international requirements such as Basel III, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. These organizations could have their capital constrained if the value of sovereign debt of nations such as Greece, Spain, Italy, Ireland or Portugal continues to decline, if additional countries default on their debt, or if emerging regulatory requirements such as Basel III require institutions to alter their capital structures. These potential constraints could alter the ability of customers or potential customers to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. Potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. For banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. Many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. As a result, potential customers may resist change. We seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. The sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and FIS. If we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. The sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or FIS. Potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. Further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require FIS to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. All of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the customer may determine not to close the sale or 11 Table of Contents complete the implementation. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could result in a lower number of clients and adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. We may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. Larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. Further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the customer. On some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. This reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. Our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. Terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. If we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. Further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. Finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. Any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. The Dodd-Frank Act may result in business changes for our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . Our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act and associated Durbin Amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the United States, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. The Durbin Amendment established interchange fee ceilings and allowed merchants to direct routing of transactions, both effective October 1, 2011, and established provisions that require all issuers to utilize at least two unaffiliated networks for processing, effective April 1, 2012. These changes may alter the nature or type of card programs offered by our customers, which could have an ongoing impact on our future growth or revenue for debit cards or other card programs. Further, these changes could impact the volume or dollar amount of transactions that are routed through our network, which could alter the number of transactions that we process and impact our future processing fee revenue. Several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements and could require FIS to directly comply with new regulations. See "Item I. Business. Government Regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. These new requirements could result in the need for FIS to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. Further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions 12 Table of Contents that we process on behalf of our customers. As a result, the new legislation could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and, therefore, reduces our revenues. Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. Our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. Federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulations enacted by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may require FIS to enact new business practices which may require capital investment which could impact our future operating results. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. The Bureau is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. The impact of these rules may require FIS or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. Our revenues from the sale of services to members of VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. In order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar organizations. These certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. The member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. The suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. The resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. The impact from the regulations could change from time to time and the resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. See "Item I. Business. Government Regulation" for more information. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. The majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services 13 Table of Contents provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or regulatory rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. Failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements at the Federal, state or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and applicable privacy requirements. Further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security breaches, our own failure to comply with laws and regulations or industry security requirements imposed on providers of services to financial institutions and card processing services could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records to support our customers' transaction processing, as well as part of our check authorization and collection businesses . The uninterrupted operation of our information systems and the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems are critical to our successful operation. If we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These risks are increased when we transmit information over the Internet and due to increasing security risks posed by organized crime and politically motivated hackers. As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2011 we experienced a cyber-incident during which intruders gained unauthorized access to FIS' network. During the incident, the intruders moved across a number of information technology environments, viewed and downloaded information, and ultimately executed approximately $13.0 million in unauthorized ATM transactions through our Sunrise prepaid card platform, resulting in a loss to FIS. We are aware of no evidence that any of our clients or their customers suffered any direct financial loss as a result of the 2011 cyber-incident. During the 2011 cyber-incident, the attackers also engaged in tactics and techniques designed to obscure their movements and to prevent a full re-creation of their activities. Nonetheless, it was the opinion of the cyber-security consultant we retained in March 2011 and representatives of law enforcement that the attackers were focused on the theft of money from the Sunrise prepaid platform. If additional information regarding the incident is discovered, our current understanding of the attackers' activities during the incident could change, and the result could potentially have a material adverse effect on us. New cyber-incidents or additional cyber-incidents as a result of the previous unauthorized access incident could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, while there is no pending litigation against us related to this cyber-incident, litigation may result. In late February 2012, the federal agencies that regulate financial institutions and provide regulatory oversight for FIS issued a confidential exam report related to our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. We responded to this report and described the actions that we have taken and will take to improve these functions. The regulatory agencies distributed a letter to our clients in March 2012 describing the enhancements they had requested in our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. This letter acknowledged our commitment to address these requests expeditiously. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the regulatory agencies completed the fieldwork for their regularly scheduled examination of FIS. A final report is pending at the time of this filing. After hiring our new Chief Information Security Officer, we commissioned an additional third-party factual investigation to analyze the 2011 cyber-incident comprehensively and objectively. This investigation is not yet complete; however, additional information has been provided to us by the investigators indicating that limited data, affecting a small number of our customers, may have been accessed or was accessed during the 2011 cyber-incident. We are in the process of communicating this information with the affected customers. We do not expect that this additional information and the communication thereof to our customers will have a material adverse effect on the Company, although we cannot predict this with certainty. It is possible that additional information regarding the 2011 cyber-incident could be discovered and our current understanding of the 14 Table of Contents attackers' focus and activities during the incident could change, either of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company. Further, although we have implemented significant enhancements in our security systems and environments since the attack, and are continuing to make improvements, we are unable to predict with certainty what, if any, further communications our regulators will have with our regulated financial institution clients or will require us to have with our clients. We are also unable to predict the effect that any future FIS communications to our clients may have on our business. Any future actions from our regulators or clients could have a material adverse impact on our business. Further, as a provider of services to financial institutions and card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings or the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers and/or result in increasing regulation or other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. As our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert managements attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. We face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers bank. If a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writers bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the checks face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. In some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. Lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ACH payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. In addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ACH services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. If we are unable to obtain such ACH services 15 Table of Contents in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. Furthermore, if one of our customers for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the customer does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international operations represent approximately 20% of total 2012 revenues, which are largely conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, including the Brazilian Real, British Pound and Euro. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar versus local currencies. In addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the United States, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. As we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in Brazil, Europe, Australia and parts of Asia. The U.S. Dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the U.S. Dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. Because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. Competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. Our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. Competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. Our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at FIS or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the Company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. We are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation, and also are involved in or the subject of governmental or regulatory agency inquiries or investigations from time to time. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, or compliance with any governmental or regulatory rules, we may be forced to pay damages or fines and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our tax expense. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by Federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. Risks Related to Business Combinations and Ventures We have a substantial investment in our Brazilian Venture and drive significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. Revenue attributable to our Brazilian Venture partner, Banco Bradesco, accounted for $287.6 million in 2012 . The contract that we have with our Brazilian Venture partner allows for the termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends September 30, 2020. This risk of contract termination is mitigated by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. These payments have been established based on FIS' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. The required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. If our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. For further detail on our Brazilian Venture see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we employ approximately 10,200 employees in Brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. If our Brazilian Venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the Brazilian Venture. These claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. As of December 31, 2012 , goodwill aggregated to $8,381.5 million , or 61.9% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $81.3 million , or 0.6% of total assets. Current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. The results of our 2012 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the Companys reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of December 31, 2012 . Likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of December 31, 2012 . However, if worldwide or United States economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2012 , intangible assets with definite useful lives aggregated to $1,494.9 million , or 11.0% of total assets. Current accounting rules require intangible assets with definite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. We will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. Some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. In certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or 17 Table of Contents further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. Our existing levels of debt and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2012 , we had total debt of approximately $4,385.5 million . This level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. The covenants relating to our notes and the FIS Credit Agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. We may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. Although the indenture governing our Notes and the agreements governing the FIS Credit Agreement (as both are defined in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and other indebtedness each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. As of December 31, 2012 , we had approximately $1,022.9 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing FIS Credit Agreement. To the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information The statements contained in this Form 10-K or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future. These statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; 18 Table of Contents changes in the growth rates of the markets for core processing, card issuer, and transaction processing services; failures to adapt our services and products to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential customers to the regulatory letter we received about information security, risk management and internal audit following the security breach we experienced in early 2011 and to any other communications about such topics from our regulators or from us; competitive pressures on product pricing and services including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 2. Properties. FIS corporate headquarters is located at 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida. In addition, FIS owns or leases support centers, data processing facilities and other facilities at approximately 140 locations. We believe our facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and are in good operating condition. We believe that the computer equipment that we own and our various facilities are adequate for our present and foreseeable business needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. In the ordinary course of business, the Company is involved in various pending and threatened litigation matters related to operations, some of which include claims for punitive or exemplary damages. The Company believes that no actions, other than the matter listed below, depart from customary litigation incidental to its business. As background to the disclosure below, please note the following: This matter raises difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and is subject to many uncertainties and complexities. The Company reviews all of its litigation matters on an on-going basis and follows the authoritative provisions for accounting for contingencies when making accrual and disclosure decisions. A liability must be accrued if (a) it is probable that a liability has been incurred and (b) the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. If one of these criteria has not been met, disclosure is required when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a loss may have been incurred. When assessing reasonably possible and probable outcomes, the Company bases decisions on the assessment of the ultimate outcome following all appeals. Legal fees associated with defending litigation matters are expensed as incurred. CheckFree Corporation and CashEdge, Inc. v. Metavante Corporation and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. This is a patent infringement action that was filed by CheckFree Corporation and CashEdge, Inc., wholly-owned subsidiaries of Fiserv, Inc., against Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and our subsidiary, Metavante Corporation (collectively the Defendants) in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Jacksonville Division on January 5, 2012. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees for the alleged infringement of three patents. Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants infringe the patents at issue by providing customers financial and payment solutions that process payment instructions, provide electronic biller notifications, and/or process account-to-account funds transfer 19 Table of Contents transactions and have requested financial damages and injunctive relief. Defendants filed their Answer and Counterclaims to Plaintiffs' complaint for patent infringement denying the claims of patent infringement and asserting defenses, including non-infringement and invalidity. Additionally, Defendants filed counterclaims asserting patent infringement of three patents and adding Fiserv, Inc. as a Counter Defendant. Defendants seek damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs and Counter Defendant Fiserv, Inc., filed their Answer to Defendants' counterclaims denying the claims of patent infringement and asserting defenses, including non-infringement and invalidity. In the second quarter of 2012, the Defendants filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings and a Motion to Stay Discovery. The Court subsequently denied the Motion to Stay Discovery but has not yet ruled on the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. In the third quarter of 2012, the Court entered a Case Management and Scheduling Order. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Court granted Plaintiffs' Motion to Amend its First Amended Complaint to add a fourth patent and Defendants' Motion to Amend its First Amended Answer and Counterclaims. The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings was denied as moot following entry of the amended complaint adding claims with respect to a fourth patent. On December 3, 2012, Defendants filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking an order invalidating all of the Plaintiffs' asserted patents. On January 15, 2013, Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking to invalidate select patent claims from one of Defendants' asserted patents. The Court has not yet ruled on either of the summary judgment motions. Trial is scheduled for January 2014. Discovery is ongoing. Due to the early stage of this matter, an estimate of a possible loss or range of loss, if any, for this action cannot be made at this time. Indemnifications and Warranties The Company generally indemnifies its customers, subject to certain exceptions, against damages and costs resulting from claims of patent, copyright, or trademark infringement associated with its customers' use of the Company's products or services. Historically, the Company has not made any significant payments under such indemnifications, but continues to monitor the conditions that are subject to the indemnifications to identify whether it is probable that a loss has occurred, and would recognize any such losses when they are estimable. In addition, the Company warrants to customers that its software operates substantially in accordance with the software specifications. Historically, no significant costs have been incurred related to software warranties and no accruals for warranty costs have been made. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FIS. The table set forth below provides the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock and the cash dividends declared per share of common stock for each quarter of 2012 and 2011 . High Low Dividend 2012 First Quarter $ 33.35 $ 26.43 $ 0.20 Second Quarter $ 34.08 $ 31.24 $ 0.20 Third Quarter $ 34.80 $ 30.71 $ 0.20 Fourth Quarter $ 36.97 $ 30.89 $ 0.20 2011 First Quarter $ 32.79 $ 27.95 $ 0.05 Second Quarter $ 33.54 $ 30.07 $ 0.05 Third Quarter $ 31.32 $ 24.10 $ 0.05 Fourth Quarter $ 27.31 $ 22.58 $ 0.05 As of January 31, 2013, there were approximately 14,000 shareholders of record of our common stock. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, which were increased from $0.05 to $0.20 per share per quarter in 2012. On February 12, 2013, the Board of Directors approved an additional increase to $0.22 per share per quarter beginning in the 20 Table of Contents first quarter of 2013. However, the declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment policy and opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in our debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.22 per common share is payable March 29, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 15, 2013. Item 12 of Part III contains information concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. On February 7, 2012, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of our common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions of up to $1,000.0 million through December 31, 2015. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. We repurchased 10.3 million shares of our common stock for $350.3 million at an average price of $33.84 during the year ended December 31, 2012 , under this plan, including the repurchase of 5.7 million shares from WPM, L.P. for $200.0 million , or $35.03 per share, in December 2012. Approximately $649.7 million of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of December 31, 2012 . On October 18, 2011, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $500.0 million of our outstanding common stock through December 31, 2013. We repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock for $38.0 million at an average price of $26.51 during the year ended December 31, 2011 under this plan. In January 2012, we repurchased an additional 3.7 million shares of our common stock for $101.1 million at an average price of $27.32 . This plan was replaced by the February 7, 2012 authorization plan approved by our Board of Directors. On February 4, 2010, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to 15.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through January 31, 2013. We repurchased 1.4 million shares of our common stock for $32.2 million at an average price of $22.97 in 2010 under this plan. We repurchased an additional 13.6 million shares of our common stock for $361.2 million at an average price of $26.56 during the year ended December 31, 2011 under this plan. No additional shares of our common stock remain available to repurchase under this plan as of December 31, 2012 . On May 25, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a leveraged recapitalization plan to repurchase up to $2.5 billion of our common stock at a price range of $29.00 - $31.00 per share of common stock through a modified "Dutch auction" tender offer (the "Tender Offer"). The Tender Offer commenced on July 6, 2010 and expired on August 3, 2010. The Tender Offer was oversubscibed at $29.00 , resulting in the purchase of 86.2 million shares, including 6.4 million shares underlying previously unexercised stock options. The repurchased shares were added to treasury stock. Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below shows the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the period starting on December 31, 2007, and ending on December 31, 2012 . This is compared with the cumulative total returns over the same period of (1) the S&P 500 Index and (2) the S&P Supercap Data Processing & Outsourced Services Index (peer group). The graph assumes that on December 31, 2007, $100 was invested in our common stock and $100 was invested in the other two indices, with dividends reinvested on the date of payment without payment of any commissions. The performance shown in the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future performance. 21 Table of Contents 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 12/11 12/12 Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. 100.00 70.08 101.93 120.01 117.34 157.38 S&P 500 100.00 63.00 79.67 91.67 93.61 108.59 S&P Supercap Data Processing & Outsourced Services 100.00 68.26 99.41 97.33 118.68 151.90 Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The selected financial data set forth below constitutes historical financial data of FIS and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, included elsewhere in this report. On October 1, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Metavante Technologies, Inc. ("Metavante"). The results of operations and financial position of Metavante are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of acquisition. On July 2, 2008, we completed the spin-off of Lender Processing Services, Inc., which was a former wholly-owned subsidiary ("LPS") . For accounting purposes, the results of LPS are presented as discontinued operations. Accordingly, all prior periods have been restated to present the results of FIS on a stand alone basis and include the results of LPS up to July 2, 2008, as discontinued operations. 22 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Statement of Earnings Data: Processing and services revenues $ 5,807.6 $ 5,625.6 $ 5,145.6 $ 3,680.1 $ 3,359.5 Cost of revenues 3,946.9 3,919.1 3,553.7 2,720.5 2,616.1 Gross profit 1,860.7 1,706.5 1,591.9 959.6 743.4 Selling, general and administrative expenses 781.5 647.9 654.0 541.6 381.0 Impairment charges 9.1 154.9 136.9 26.0 Operating income 1,079.2 1,049.5 783.0 281.1 336.4 Total other income (expense) (248.0 ) (322.5 ) (184.9 ) (121.9 ) (155.6 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in loss of unconsolidated entities 831.2 727.0 598.1 159.2 180.8 Provision for income taxes 270.9 232.4 208.4 53.0 57.6 Equity in loss of unconsolidated entities (0.2 ) Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 560.3 494.6 389.7 106.2 123.0 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) 2.3 96.5 Net earnings 481.1 481.1 357.9 108.5 219.5 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (19.9 ) (11.5 ) 46.6 (2.6 ) (4.7 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 $ 105.9 $ 214.8 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.85 $ 1.61 $ 1.26 $ 0.44 $ 0.62 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) 0.01 0.50 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.58 $ 1.56 $ 1.17 $ 0.45 $ 1.12 Weighted average shares basic 291.8 300.6 345.1 236.4 191.6 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.82 $ 1.57 $ 1.24 $ 0.43 $ 0.61 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) 0.01 0.50 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.55 $ 1.53 $ 1.15 $ 0.44 $ 1.11 Weighted average shares diluted 297.5 307.0 352.0 239.4 193.5 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 540.4 $ 483.1 $ 436.3 $ 103.6 $ 118.9 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) 2.3 95.9 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 $ 105.9 $ 214.8 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (In millions, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data : Cash and cash equivalents $ 517.6 $ 415.5 $ 338.0 $ 430.9 $ 220.9 Goodwill 8,381.5 8,542.8 8,550.0 8,232.9 4,194.0 Other intangible assets, net 1,576.2 1,903.3 2,202.9 2,396.8 924.3 Total assets 13,549.7 13,873.2 14,176.3 13,997.6 7,500.4 Total long-term debt 4,385.5 4,809.8 5,192.1 3,253.3 2,514.5 Total FIS stockholders equity 6,640.9 6,503.0 6,403.2 8,308.9 3,532.8 Noncontrolling interest 152.7 148.2 158.4 209.7 164.2 Total equity 6,793.6 6,651.2 6,561.6 8,518.6 3,697.0 Cash dividends declared per share $ 0.80 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Selected Quarterly Financial Data Selected unaudited quarterly financial data is as follows: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2012 Processing and services revenues $ 1,413.4 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,436.9 $ 1,500.1 Gross profit 423.9 476.1 468.1 492.6 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 142.2 224.3 232.4 232.3 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders 87.1 150.6 86.8 136.7 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.51 $ 0.30 $ 0.47 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.29 $ 0.50 $ 0.29 $ 0.46 2011 Processing and services revenues $ 1,352.8 $ 1,413.3 $ 1,398.2 $ 1,461.3 Gross profit 376.5 423.9 432.9 473.2 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 145.0 188.6 211.9 181.5 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders 92.8 123.5 136.3 117.0 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.31 $ 0.41 $ 0.45 $ 0.39 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.40 $ 0.44 $ 0.39 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following section discusses managements view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of FIS included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Overview FIS is a leading global provider dedicated to banking and payments technologies. With a long history deeply rooted in the financial services sector, FIS serves more than 14,000 institutions in over 100 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 35,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing and banking solutions, providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that drives financial institutions. FIS topped the 2012 and 2011 annual FinTech 100 list, is a member of the Fortune 500 U.S. and of Standard and Poors (S&P) 500 Index. We have four reporting segments: FSG, PSG, ISG and Corporate and Other. A description of these segments is included above in Item 1. Business and the results of operations of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is derived from a combination of recurring services, professional services and software license fees. Recurring services, which have historically represented approximately 80% of our revenue, are provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. However, a significant portion of these recurring revenues are derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of deposit and card transactions associated with consumer and commercial activity. Sales of software licenses and professional services are less predictable and a portion can be regarded as discretionary spending by our customers. We continually seek opportunities to enhance revenues and to manage our costs and capital expenditures prudently in light of any shifting revenue trends and in response to broader economic conditions. We acquired Capco in December 2010 to broaden our capabilities to provide strategic and business transformation consulting. While Capco has generated increased revenues, the lower profit margin realized for professional services as compared to our other solutions has resulted in profit margin compression. The addition of Capco has also reduced the relative proportion of our recurring revenue stream. As the payment market continues to evolve from paper-based to electronic, we continue to add new services responsive to this trend. Card transactions continue to increase as a percentage of total point-of-sale payments, which fuels continuing demand for card-related services. In recent years, we have added a variety of stored-value card types, internet banking, mobile solutions, and electronic bill presentment/payment services, as well as a number of card enhancement and loyalty/reward programs. The common goal of these offerings continues to be convenience and security for the consumer, coupled with value to the financial institution. The evolution to electronic transactions also intensifies the vulnerability to fraud, increasing the demand for our risk management solutions. At the same time, the use of checks continues to decline as a percentage of total payments, which negatively impacts our check warranty and item-processing businesses. We compete for both licensing and outsourcing business, and thus are affected by the decisions of financial institutions to utilize our services under an outsourced arrangement or to process in-house under a software license and maintenance agreement. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of year-to-year economic changes on our results of operations. One of the current trends in the financial services industry from which we are benefiting is the migration by our clients to an outsourced model to improve their profitability. While we are cautious regarding broader economic improvement, we expect banks to continue investing in new technology and believe we are well positioned to capitalize as the overall market continues to recover. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, including additional bank failures and continuing merger and acquisition activity. As a whole, consolidation activity is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial or detrimental to our business. When consolidations occur, merger partners often operate disparate systems licensed from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally 25 Table of Contents makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose market share if we are providing services to both entities, or we are not the merging parties' provider of core or payment processing, or if a customer of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. The acquisition of M&I Bank by BMO Harris Bank, both of whom are customers of FIS, is a consolidation that will have a financial impact on the Company. We disclosed in our June 30, 2012 Form 10-Q that we estimated a decline in annual EBITDA run rate of approximately $60.0 million, and that we expected the 2013 impact to be approximately half that amount. We now expect that the 2013 impact will be substantially offset by termination and settlement fees, additional professional services from BMO Harris Bank and other activities expected to occur with BMO Harris Bank. We will continue to work towards reducing the impact in 2014 and beyond by expanding services to BMO Harris Bank, adding new customers and selling additional products and services to existing clients. The Dodd-Frank Act and associated Durbin Amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the United States, established the new Federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations. Regulations under the Durbin Amendment, released by the Federal Reserve in June 2011, mandate a cap on debit transaction interchange fees on cards issued by financial institutions with assets greater than $10.0 billion. This legislated interchange fee cap has the potential to alter the type and/or volume of card-based transactions that we process on behalf of our customers, but has had an insignificant impact thus far. As we continue to monitor the market participants' actions, we believe we are competitively positioned to offset or take advantage of any potential shifts in payment transaction volume as we offer multiple payment solutions and options to our clients. The network exclusivity provisions of the Durbin Amendment, which require all debit card issuers to have at least two unaffiliated networks for purposes of processing signature debit and PIN debit transactions, favorably impacted transaction volumes in our NYCE PIN debit network in 2012; however, market participants' actions may positively or negatively impact transaction volumes in the future. In order for our products and services to comply with these new regulations and enable our customers to effectively compete in the marketplace, we may need to make additional capital investments to modify our solutions. Further, the requirements of the new regulations and the timing of their effective dates could result in changes in our customers' business practices that may alter their delivery of services to consumers and the timing of their investment decisions, which could change the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our customers. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our international business continued to experience growth across most major regions during the year ended December 31, 2012 , including Europe and Brazil. The majority of our European revenue is generated by clients in Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Those countries encountering the most significant economic challenges, including Spain, Italy, Greece, Ireland and Portugal, account for less than 2% of our international revenue base and less than 0.5% of our consolidated revenue. Information Security Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public, sensitive information. FIS is not immune to such attacks. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including but not limited to sensitive information of our customers and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. As previously disclosed, in the first quarter of 2011 we experienced a cyber-incident during which intruders gained unauthorized access to FIS' network. During the incident, the intruders moved across a number of information technology environments, viewed and downloaded information, and ultimately executed approximately $13.0 million in unauthorized ATM transactions through our Sunrise prepaid card platform, resulting in a loss to FIS. We are aware of no evidence that any of our clients or their customers suffered any direct financial loss as a result of the 2011 cyber-incident. During the 2011 cyber-incident, the attackers also engaged in tactics and techniques designed to obscure their movements and to prevent a full re-creation of their activities. To date, we are aware of no evidence of any misuse of any client 26 Table of Contents information gained by the intruders from our information technology systems environments. This lack of evidence is consistent with the opinion of the cyber-security consultant we retained in March 2011 and representatives of law enforcement that the attackers were focused on the theft of money from the Sunrise prepaid platform. Since the incident, we have been taking significant steps to improve our information security, including but not limited to: Increasing the monitoring of the servers within our environment to identify potential unauthorized activity and implementing enhanced fraud monitoring and network controls; Completing the necessary re-certifying of Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard compliance of the Sunrise prepaid platform; Implementing enhanced information security processes, including creating a cross-functional team to implement enhanced transaction monitoring to detect or prevent fraudulent activity; Expanding risk assessment coverage of internet-facing products and services; Enhancing our Information Security Strategic Plan with short-term and long-term measures to improve FIS' information security; The hiring of a new Chief Information Security Officer (CISO), a Chief Risk Officer (CRO) and other senior information security and risk management personnel; Improving our inventory of technology, data and information security assets worldwide; Enhancing layers of network security, including intrusion prevention, firewall restrictions, and employee access restrictions; Enhancing network segmentation to separate production environments; and Significantly increasing cyber security, incident response and risk management staff. In late February 2012, the federal agencies that regulate financial institutions and provide regulatory oversight for FIS issued a confidential exam report related to our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. We responded to this report and described the actions that we have taken and will take to improve these functions. The regulatory agencies distributed a letter to our clients in March 2012 describing the enhancements they had requested in our information security, risk management and internal audit functions. FIS believes that it has made substantial progress in implementing all of these requested enhancements, several of which have been completed. Throughout 2013, FIS will continue to focus on completing these and other enhancements identified since March 2012. In addition, in 2012 we engaged a third-party expert on behalf of our clients to perform an independent review of our progress in improving our information security, risk management and internal audit initiatives. The expert's report, dated November 30, 2012, was posted on our client communications portal. As part of its review engagement, the expert confirmed the status of our progress, as stated to our clients and the regulatory agencies, up to that date in enhancing our Information Security, Risk Management and Internal Audit programs. After hiring our new Chief Information Security Officer, we commissioned an additional third party factual investigation to analyze the 2011 cyber-incident, which is nearing completion. As part of this investigation, the investigators provided us with additional information indicating that limited data, affecting a small number of our customers, may have been accessed or, in some cases, was accessed during the 2011 cyber-incident. We are in the process of communicating this information with the affected customers and showing the steps that we have taken to improve our information security systems. We do not expect that this additional information and the communication thereof to our customers will have a material adverse effect on the Company. It is possible that additional information regarding the 2011 cyber-incident could be discovered and our current understanding of the attackers' focus and activities during the incident could change, either of which could potentially have a material adverse effect on the Company. We are continuing to work closely with and communicate to our clients about the 2011 cyber-incident, including with respect to the additional information resulting from the ongoing investigation. We are also continuing to focus on improving our internal information security and risk management functions across the Company, and assisting our customers in doing the same. We increased the amounts spent on information security in 2012. Due to the increased frequency and the evolving nature of cyber-incidents, we expect to continue to implement enhancements to protect the security of our information technology systems and data, as well as the information technology data of our clients that we possess. 27 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The accounting policies described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent liabilities and assets at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenues from the delivery of bank processing, credit and debit card processing services, other payment processing services, professional services, software licensing and software related services and products. Revenues are recognized when evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, fees are fixed or determinable and collection is considered probable. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same customer. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be aggregated or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are interdependent and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar arrangements or classes of customers could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company analyzes trade accounts receivable by considering historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, changes in customer payment terms and collection trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Any change in the assumptions used may result in an additional allowance for doubtful accounts being recognized in the period in which the change occurs. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $19.9 million and $33.1 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The decrease in 2012 is attributable to resolution of a number of specifically reserved accounts, as well as enhanced collection management. Provision for Check Guarantee Losses In our check guarantee business, if a guaranteed check presented to a merchant customer is dishonored by the check writers bank, we reimburse our merchant customer for the checks face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. Loss provisions and anticipated recoveries are primarily determined by performing a historical analysis of our check loss and recovery experience and considering other factors that could affect that experience in the future. Such factors include the general economy, the overall industry mix of our customer volumes, statistical analysis of check fraud trends within our customer volumes, and the quality of returned checks. Once these factors are considered, we establish a rate for check losses that is calculated by dividing the expected check losses by dollar volume processed and a rate for anticipated recoveries that is calculated by dividing the anticipated recoveries by the total amount of related check losses. These rates are then applied against the dollar volume processed and check losses, respectively, each month and charged to cost of revenues. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered may be different than our estimates. Historically, such estimation processes have proved to be materially accurate; however, our projections of probable check guarantee losses and anticipated recoveries are inherently uncertain and as a result, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of such items. Changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our customers, and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. We recorded check guarantee losses, net of anticipated recoveries excluding service fees, of $54.7 million , $68.0 million and $69.4 million , respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 . The year-over-year reduction is consistent with the ongoing decline in retail check activity. A ten percent difference in our estimated check guarantee loss provisions net of estimated recoveries as of December 31, 2012 would have impacted 2012 net earnings by less than $2.0 million, after-tax. 28 Table of Contents Computer Software Computer software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011 , computer software, net of accumulated amortization, was $847.0 million and $881.5 million , respectively. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life and software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line and accelerated methods over its estimated useful life. The capitalization of software development costs is governed by FASB ASC Subtopic 985-20 if the software is to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, or by FASB ASC Subtopic 350-40 if the software is for internal use. After the technological feasibility of the software has been established (for software to be marketed), or at the beginning of application development (for internal-use software), software development costs, which include salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors incurred during development, are capitalized. Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility (for software to be marketed), or prior to application development (for internal-use software), are expensed as incurred. Software development costs are amortized on a product-by-product basis commencing on the date of general release of the products (for software to be marketed) or the date placed in service (for internal-use software). Software development costs for software to be marketed are amortized using the greater of (1) the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which ranges from three to 10 years, or (2) the ratio of current revenues to total anticipated revenue over its useful life. In determining useful lives, management considers historical results and technological trends that may influence the estimate. Useful lives for all computer software range from three to 10 years. Amortization expense for computer software was $195.5 million , $209.4 million and $195.1 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Included in discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings was amortization expense on computer software of $3.1 million , $4.5 million and $7.7 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. We also assess the recorded value of computer software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset (for software to be marketed). There are inherent uncertainties in determining the expected useful life or cash flows to be generated from computer software. While we have not historically experienced significant changes in these estimates, we could be subject to such changes in the future. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We generally engage independent valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our definite-lived intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additionally, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if there is any change in circumstances that may indicate the assets useful life is no longer indefinite. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not be amortized, but shall be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. In 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08 ("ASU 2011-08"), Testing Goodwill for Impairment. The revised standard allows an entity first to assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to in the guidance as "step zero." If an entity concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent), the "step one" quantitative assessment must be performed for that reporting unit. ASU 2011-08 provided examples of events and circumstances that should be considered in performing the "step zero" qualitative assessment, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, events affecting a reporting unit or the entity as a whole and a sustained decrease in share price. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a September 30th measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement. For 2012, primarily for the purpose of refreshing our valuation assumptions, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis rather than perform the step zero qualitative assessment. In applying the quantitative analysis, we determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighted average of multiple valuation techniques, principally a combination of an income approach and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market 29 Table of Contents approach utilizes earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the reporting unit's net assets, goodwill is not impaired and further testing is not required. Based upon the current year results of this test, there are no indications of impairment for any of our reporting units. For 2011, we early adopted the provisions of ASU 2011-08, and began our assessment with the step zero qualitative analysis because there was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units in the 2010 step one analysis. In performing the 2011 step zero qualitative analysis, examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations, we concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units continued to exceed their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one analysis in 2011. We also estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives and compare this amount to the underlying carrying value annually. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we did not record any impairment charges for acquired intangible assets. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we recorded an impairment charge of $9.1 million related to the Capco trademark in North America. During the year ended December 31, 2010 , the portion of the unamortized contract intangible asset recorded at the initiation of the Brazilian Venture that was attributable to Banco Santander was deemed impaired due to the exit of Banco Santander. Accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $140.3 million in the third quarter of 2010 . Additionally, in 2010 we recorded a $5.2 million impairment of intangible assets related to the discontinued operations of Participacoes, as discussed in Notes 6 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to determine income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing recognition of items for income tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that deferred income tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase or decrease this allowance in a period, we must reflect this increase or decrease as an expense or benefit within income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Determination of the income tax expense requires estimates and can involve complex issues that may require an extended period to resolve. Further, changes in the geographic mix of revenues or in the estimated level of annual pre-tax income can cause the overall effective income tax rate to vary from period to period. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we adequately provide for any known tax contingencies. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax benefit realization are reasonable. However, final determination of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different than estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period that determination is made. Related Party Transactions We are a party to certain historical related party agreements as discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report. Factors Affecting Comparability Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report that present our financial condition and operating results reflect the following significant transactions: In December 2010, we acquired Capco and have included the results of operations and financial position of Capco in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the date of acquisition. In August 2010, we completed a leveraged recapitalization. Through a modified "Dutch Auction" tender offer, we repurchased 86.2 million shares of our common stock, including 6.4 million shares underlying previously unexercised 30 Table of Contents stock options. The repurchased shares were added to treasury stock. The recapitalization was funded by incremental debt, as outlined under " Liquidity and Capital Resources - Financing. " We have engaged in share repurchase programs throughout all periods presented. In 2012, we repurchased a total of 14.0 million shares for $451.4 million ; in 2011, we repurchased 15.0 million shares for $399.2 million ; and in 2010, in addition to the Dutch Auction, we repurchased 1.4 million shares for $32.2 million . As a result of the above transactions, the results of operations and earnings per share in the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements may not be directly comparable. 31 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (in millions, except per share amounts) 2012 2011 2010 Processing and services revenues $ 5,807.6 $ 5,625.6 $ 5,145.6 Cost of revenues 3,946.9 3,919.1 3,553.7 Gross profit 1,860.7 1,706.5 1,591.9 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 781.5 647.9 654.0 Impairment charges 9.1 154.9 Operating income 1,079.2 1,049.5 783.0 Other income (expense): Interest income 8.6 6.0 6.4 Interest expense (231.3 ) (264.8 ) (179.8 ) Other income (expense), net (25.3 ) (63.7 ) (11.5 ) Total other income (expense) (248.0 ) (322.5 ) (184.9 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 831.2 727.0 598.1 Provision for income taxes 270.9 232.4 208.4 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 560.3 494.6 389.7 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) Net earnings 481.1 481.1 357.9 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (19.9 ) (11.5 ) 46.6 Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.85 $ 1.61 $ 1.26 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.58 $ 1.56 $ 1.17 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 291.8 300.6 345.1 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.82 $ 1.57 $ 1.24 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.55 $ 1.53 $ 1.15 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 297.5 307.0 352.0 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 540.4 $ 483.1 $ 436.3 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 Processing and Services Revenues Processing and services revenues totaled $5,807.6 million , $5,625.6 million and $5,145.6 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The increase in revenue during 2012 of $182.0 million , or 3.2% , as compared to 2011 , is primarily attributable to increased processing volumes, transaction growth and demand for professional and consulting services, plus incremental revenues from 2012 acquisitions of $26.2 million. Total revenue growth in these areas was partially offset by lower item processing and retail check activity. The 2012 period included $100.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar as compared to 2011 . The increase in revenue during 2011 of $480.0 million , or 9.3% , as compared to 2010 was primarily attributable to incremental revenues of $304.7 million from 2010 acquisitions, increased demand for professional services and increased processing revenues. Total revenue growth in these areas in 2011 was tempered by lower item processing and retail check activity and the change in reporting certain merchant interchange fees from gross to net revenue recognition, as discussed in greater detail under Segment Results of Operations . The 2011 period also 32 Table of Contents included $47.4 million of favorable foreign currency impact resulting from a weaker U.S. Dollar as compared with 2010. The 2010 period was favorably impacted by the recognition of an $83.3 million termination fee in connection with Banco Santanders exit from the Brazilian Venture. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues totaled $3,946.9 million , $3,919.1 million and $3,553.7 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $1,860.7 million , $1,706.5 million and $1,591.9 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues (gross margin) was 32.0% , 30.3% and 30.9% in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Cost of revenues were comparable during 2012 and 2011 . The increase in gross margin during 2012 as compared to 2011 is due to increased operating leverage and cost management initiatives. The increase in cost of revenues of $365.4 million in the 2011 period as compared to the 2010 period was directly attributable to the revenue variances addressed above. The termination fee received in connection with Banco Santander's exit from the Brazilian Venture favorably augmented gross margins for 2010 , contributing to a decrease in gross margin of 170 basis points during 2011 by comparison. Further, while Capco provided revenue growth in 2011, the lower margin contribution unfavorably impacted gross margin as compared to 2010. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $781.5 million , $647.9 million and $654.0 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The 2012 increase of $133.6 million as compared to 2011 was primarily due to increased compensation costs and costs to enhance administrative support of operational functions, including information security and risk and compliance. The compensation costs included $43.2 million in payments and accelerated vesting of certain stock option and restricted stock grants triggered by changes in responsibility or separation from the Company of certain executives. In addition, the 2011 period benefited from a $22.3 million reduction in a contingent consideration liability related to the Capco acquisition as addressed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The decrease of $6.1 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 results primarily from higher expenses included in the 2010 period in connection with our leveraged recapitalization, coupled with the 2011 reduction in the Capco contingent consideration liability. These impacts were partially offset by incremental operating costs in 2011 resulting from 2010 acquisitions. Other factors impacting the comparison include a $10.1 million recovery in September 2010 of legal costs previously incurred as the result of a favorable court ruling and the $13.0 million loss related to unauthorized activities on the Sunrise prepaid card platform recorded in 2011 (see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairment Charges Impairment charges totaled $9.1 million and $154.9 million for 2011 and 2010 , respectively. No impairment charges were taken in 2012 . The 2011 charges relate to a reduction in the carrying value of the Capco trademark in North America. The 2010 charges relate to impairments resulting from the exit of Banco Santander from the Brazilian Venture, including $140.3 million representing the portion of the unamortized contract intangible asset recorded at the initiation of the Brazilian Venture that was attributable to Banco Santander, and the net unamortized balance of $14.6 million for certain capitalized software development costs incurred exclusively for use in processing Banco Santander card activity (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating Income Operating income totaled $1,079.2 million , $1,049.5 million and $783.0 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 18.6% , 18.7% and 15.2% for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The annual increases in operating income and changes in operating margin were driven by the revenue and cost variances addressed above. Total Other Income (Expense) Total other income (expense) was $(248.0) million , $(322.5) million and $(184.9) million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The primary component of total other income (expense) is interest expense. The decrease of $33.5 million in interest expense in 2012 as compared to 2011 resulted from lower borrowing rates combined with a reduction in total debt outstanding. The increase of $85.0 million in interest expense in 2011 as compared to 2010 resulted from higher overall debt levels as a result of our recapitalization in mid- 2010 and higher interest rates. 33 Table of Contents Apart from interest expense, 2012 includes $18.4 million in costs related to the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt issuance costs resulting from the early pay down of certain debt and related refinancing activities. In comparison, 2011 included $38.8 million of debt refinancing expenses, including $24.7 million of previously capitalized debt issuance costs, and a $34.0 million other-than-temporary impairment of available-for-sale securities acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of Metavante . The 2010 period included $13.7 million of debt extinguishment expenses, the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt issuance costs and fees and other expenses relating to our leveraged recapitalization. The 2010 period also included the forgiveness of $19.4 million of notes payable representing additional consideration which was to be paid to the banks in the Brazilian Venture upon migration of their card portfolios and an extinguishment gain of $5.7 million from the restructuring of the remaining Banco Bradesco notes in conjunction with other revisions to the Brazilian Venture agreements (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $270.9 million , $232.4 million and $208.4 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. This resulted in an effective tax rate on continuing operations of 32.6% , 32.0% and 34.8% for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The tax rates were comparable during the 2012 and 2011 periods. The net decrease in the overall effective tax rate for the 2011 period was primarily related to a larger proportion of foreign-source pre-tax income versus domestic income during the 2011 period and state income tax planning. Additionally, the 2011 period included a one-time benefit for the favorable resolution of tax contingencies in international jurisdictions, implementation of federal tax planning strategies and a non-recurring benefit related to our United Kingdom operations. Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations During 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , certain operations are classified as discontinued. Reporting for discontinued operations classifies revenues and expenses as one line item, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. On June 25, 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business ("Healthcare Business") because its operations did not align with our strategic plans. The all-cash transaction closed on August 15, 2012 and we received cash proceeds of $332.2 million . We recorded a pre-tax gain of $22.0 million and tax expense on the sale of $78.3 million , which resulted from the allocation of goodwill with minimal tax basis. In addition, during the third quarter of 2010, we determined that we would pursue strategic alternatives for Fidelity National Participacoes Ltda. ("Participacoes"). In January 2010, we closed on the sale of ClearPar. The table below outlines the components of discontinued operations for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , net of tax (in millions). See also Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 2012 2011 2010 Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business $ (47.8 ) $ 10.7 $ 11.3 Impairment charges- Participacoes (16.6 ) Participacoes operations (31.4 ) (24.2 ) (25.2 ) Other (1.3 ) Total discontinued operations $ (79.2 ) $ (13.5 ) $ (31.8 ) The Healthcare Business had revenues of $80.5 million , $120.1 million and $123.9 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. In connection with our 2012 sale of the Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business, the Company entered into an agreement to provide certain commercial and transitional services to the buyer and expects to continue to generate insignificant cash flows for the provision of these services. The following table illustrates the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012 , 2011 and 2010 for the Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business (in millions). Years ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Pre-tax income from operations $ 13.8 $ 17.3 $ 18.2 Pre-tax gain on sale 22.0 Earnings before tax 35.8 17.3 18.2 Tax expense 83.6 6.6 6.9 Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business included in discontinued operations $ (47.8 ) $ 10.7 $ 11.3 34 Table of Contents Participacoes had no revenue in 2012 and revenues of $11.7 million and $61.5 million for 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Participacoes had operating expenses of $47.5 million , $48.3 million and $125.0 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Participacoes' processing volume was transitioned to other vendors or back to its customers during the second quarter of 2011. As a result of the dismissal of employees related to the shut-down activities completed in 2011, the 2012 and 2011 periods included charges of $39.1 million and $34.6 million , respectively, to increase our accrual for potential labor claims and related administrative costs. The shut-down activities involved the transfer and termination of approximately 2,600 employees. As of December 31, 2012 , there are approximately 1,550 active labor claims. Former employees have up to two years from the date of termination to file labor claims, or April 2013. Consequently, we have continued exposure to such claims and adverse claim development, which were not transferred with other assets and liabilities in the disposal. Any changes in the estimated liability related to these labor claims will also be recorded as discontinued operations. Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest totaled $(19.9) million , $(11.5) million and $46.6 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The 2010 year included after tax charges totaling $50.1 million relating to the minority partner's proportionate share of the write-off of capitalized software development costs and of the impairment to the unamortized contract intangible asset resulting from the exit of Banco Santander from the Brazilian Venture. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Earnings from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax, Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $540.4 million , $483.1 million and $436.3 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively, or $1.82 , $1.57 and $1.24 per diluted share, respectively, due to the factors described above coupled with the impact of our share repurchase initiatives. Segment Results of Operations Financial Solutions Group 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 2,246.4 $ 2,076.8 $ 1,890.8 Operating income $ 716.2 $ 680.3 $ 673.4 Operating margin 31.9 % 32.8 % 35.6 % Revenues for FSG totaled $2,246.4 million , $2,076.8 million and $1,890.8 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The overall segment increase of $169.6 million , or 8.2% , for 2012 as compared to 2011 was driven by growth in professional services, back office processing and outsourced IT revenues, increased processing revenues and incremental revenues from 2012 acquisitions of $26.2 million. Increased processing revenue is driven by core processing account volume growth, growth and adoption of eBanking and mobile banking products, as well as risk, fraud and compliance transactions. This processing revenue growth was generated from existing customer growth and newly converted competitive wins. Services revenue continues to grow in core banking systems, eBanking, mobile banking and outsourced services. The overall segment increase of $186.0 million or 9.8% for 2011 as compared to 2010 was driven by incremental Capco revenues, as well as increased processing revenues and growth in professional services. Operating income for FSG totaled $716.2 million , $680.3 million and $673.4 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Operating margin was approximately 31.9% , 32.8% and 35.6% for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The increase in operating income during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily resulted from the revenue variances discussed above. The decrease in operating margin during 2012 as compared to 2011 reflects a decrease in higher margin license revenues in the current year and increased spending related to information security and infrastructure initiatives. The increase in operating income during 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily resulted from increased processing revenues and growth in professional services, partially offset by $12.4 million in merger, integration and severance costs. The decrease in operating margin during 2011 as compared to 2010 was due to a higher proportion of professional services revenue during 2011 , including Capco consulting services revenue, which has a lower margin than other revenue sources, particularly in relation to the higher license revenues in 2010 . 35 Table of Contents Payment Solutions Group 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 2,380.6 $ 2,372.1 $ 2,354.2 Operating income $ 881.2 $ 822.7 $ 803.5 Operating margin 37.0 % 34.7 % 34.1 % Revenues for PSG totaled $2,380.6 million , $2,372.1 million and $2,354.2 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The 2012 period included growth in electronic payment services, offset by lower item processing, retail check activity and loyalty program revenue. Revenue growth during 2012 was also negatively impacted by the June 2012 deconversion of a large debit card processing client. The 2011 period included growth in print and mail and card personalization and electronic payment services, offset by lower item processing and retail check activity. Additionally, consolidation of our merchant processing platforms resulted in the utilization of the net method to account for certain merchant interchange fees, causing a $34.4 million unfavorable revenue variance during 2011 as compared to 2010. Operating income for PSG totaled $881.2 million , $822.7 million and $803.5 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Operating margin was approximately 37.0% , 34.7% and 34.1% for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The increases in operating income and operating margin during 2012 primarily reflect operating leverage related to the revenue growth in electronic payment services and the impact of disciplined cost management. The 2011 period included $13.6 million of integration and severance costs. Integration costs for 2010 were included in the Corporate and Other Segment. International Solutions Group 2012 2011 2010 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 1,180.5 $ 1,177.6 $ 917.0 Operating income $ 202.2 $ 187.6 $ 71.1 Operating margin 17.1 % 15.9 % 7.8 % Revenues for ISG totaled $1,180.5 million , $1,177.6 million and $917.0 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The 2012 period included $99.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar during the 2012 period. Excluding the unfavorable foreign currency impact, revenues for 2012 increased primarily from higher card transaction volumes in Brazil, growth within our European consulting businesses and our expanded presence across Asia including growth in the India ATM management business. Brazilian card volume growth translates into additional processing revenues and incremental call center and back-office revenues. The overall segment increase of $260.6 million for 2011 as compared to 2010 resulted primarily from incremental revenues from Capco's European business and increased credit card volumes in Brazil, growth in the India ATM management business, growth in Australian core banking revenues and license revenues from strategic customer relationships in EMEA. The 2011 period also included $47.4 million of favorable foreign currency impact resulting from a weaker U.S. Dollar during the 2011 period. Operating income for ISG totaled $202.2 million , $187.6 million and $71.1 million for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. Operating margin was 17.1% , 15.9% and 7.8% for 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The increase in operating income in 2012 , as compared to 2011 , primarily resulted from the revenue growth noted above, combined with increased scale and improved operating efficiencies across a number of geographies but primarily in Brazil. Increased operating leverage and other operating efficiencies generated improved margins in 2012 . The 2010 period included pre-tax impairment charges of $154.9 million attributable to Banco Santander's exit from the Brazilian Venture. Excluding the impact of Banco Santander's exit, operating income and margin would have been $142.7 million or 17.1% for 2010 . The increases in operating income in 2011 as compared to 2010 primarily resulted from the revenue growth noted above. While Capco has provided revenue growth, the lower margin contribution from Capco has unfavorably impacted ISG's overall margin. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other expenses were $720.4 million , $641.1 million and $765.0 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. The overall Corporate and Other increase of $79.3 million for 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to increased compensation costs, including stock compensation, 36 Table of Contents and benefits, and costs to enhance administrative support of operational functions, including information security and risk and compliance. The compensation charges include $43.2 million related to payments and the accelerated vesting of certain stock option and restricted stock grants triggered by changes in responsibility or separation from the Company of certain executives. The overall Corporate and Other decrease of $123.9 million for 2011 as compared to 2010 was primarily due to restructuring and integration costs included in the 2010 period associated with merger and acquisition activity and expenses in connection with the leveraged recapitalization, partially offset by the recovery in 2010 of legal costs previously incurred as the result of a favorable court ruling. The 2011 period included the $13.0 million loss related to unauthorized activities on the Sunrise prepaid card platform noted under Selling, General and Administrative Expenses in the Consolidated Results of Operations section above, $9.5 million in merger, integration and service costs, and a $13.2 million net benefit from adjustments from the Capco acquisition. The latter was comprised of a reduction in the contingent consideration liability of $22.3 million , partially offset by a $9.1 million impairment of the North American trademark. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt service, share repurchases, and business acquisitions. Also, our cash requirements include payments for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings. As of December 31, 2012 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $517.6 million and debt of $4,385.5 million , including the current portion. Of the $517.6 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $282.1 million is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents are not available for general corporate purposes due to the timing of settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements and pay principal and interest on our outstanding debt. We expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, which were increased from $0.05 to $0.20 per share per quarter in 2012. On February 12, 2013, the Board of Directors approved an additional increase to $0.22 per share per quarter beginning with the first quarter of 2013. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.22 per common share is payable on March 29, 2013 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 15, 2013. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $1,046.7 million , $1,171.5 million and $1,071.3 million in 2012 , 2011 and 2010 respectively. Cash flows from operations decreased $124.8 million in 2012 and increased $100.2 million in 2011 . The 2012 decrease in cash flows from operations is primarily due to the payment of $105.4 million of income taxes related to the sale of our Healthcare Business and fluctuations in the timing of merchant and card transaction settlement activity offset by other changes in working capital. The increase in 2011 was primarily due to higher earnings from operations, the timing of merchant and card transaction settlement activity and other changes in working capital. Capital Expenditures Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $296.1 million , $300.3 million and $314.0 million in capital expenditures during 2012 , 2011 and 2010 , respectively. We expect to invest approximately 5-6% of 2013 revenue in capital expenditures. Financing For information regarding the Company's long-term debt and financing activity, see Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations FIS long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for data processing and maintenance. For more descriptive information regarding the Company's long-term debt, see Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes FIS significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2012 (in millions): Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long-term debt $ 4,385.5 $ 153.9 $ 757.1 $ 2,274.5 $ 1,200.0 Interest(1) 1,137.6 200.4 372.9 288.8 275.5 Operating leases 226.6 55.0 96.2 46.4 29.0 Data processing and maintenance 246.7 131.7 78.9 28.4 7.7 Other contractual obligations (2) 100.7 18.8 52.0 10.6 19.3 Total $ 6,097.1 $ 559.8 $ 1,357.1 $ 2,648.7 $ 1,531.5 (1) These calculations assume that: (a) applicable margins remain constant; (b) all variable rate debt is priced at the one-month LIBOR rate in effect as of December 31, 2012 ; (c) no new hedging transactions are effected; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; and (e) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity. (2) Amount includes the payment for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and amounts due to the Brazilian venture partner. FIS believes that its existing cash balances, cash flows from operations and borrowing programs will provide adequate sources of liquidity and capital resources to meet FIS expected short-term liquidity needs and its long-term needs for the operations of its business, expected capital spending for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future and the satisfaction of these obligations and commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.