ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1: Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the Company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Companys sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include, without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies could impact our solutions, including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this document, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 18 Table of Contents Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Overview FIS is a global leader in financial services technology with a focus on retail and institutional banking, payments, asset and wealth management, risk and compliance and outsourcing solutions. Through the depth and breadth of our solutions portfolio, global capabilities and domain expertise, FIS serves more than 20,000 clients in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 53,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing, financial software and banking solutions. Providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that empowers the financial world, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenues by customer, geography and service offering. The completion of the SunGard acquisition on November 30, 2015 increased our existing portfolio to include solutions that automate a wide range of complex business processes for financial services institutions and corporate and government treasury departments. FIS reports its financial performance based on three segments: Integrated Financial Solutions (IFS), Global Financial Solutions (GFS) and Corporate and Other. A description of these segments is included in Note 10. Revenues by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A considerable portion of these recurring revenues is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets. Professional services revenues are typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. In 2016, macroeconomic challenges of a slowing global economy, as well as unique events such as Brexit, affected our clients, by predominantly delaying their buying decisions of consulting and professional services in certain markets. The SunGard acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to expand beyond our traditional banking and payments markets into the institutional and wholesale side of financial institutions as well as other capital markets organizations. It also significantly expanded our existing solutions and client base in wealth management, treasury and corporate payments. These solutions are in demand among our regional and community financial institution clients as they look for ways to replace highly regulated fee revenues. The combination also favorably impacted our revenue mix, with a greater concentration of license revenues and higher margin services. As we continue to integrate SunGard into our existing operations, we anticipate significant cost savings around administration and technology expenses, and expect to exit 2017 with a cost synergy run-rate savings exceeding $325 million. We are actively migrating many financial institutions to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and on-going regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice-banking channels. We are focused on enabling our clients to deliver this experience to their customers through our integrated solutions and services. We continue to innovate and invest in these integrated solutions and services to assist clients as they address this 19 Table of Contents market demand. This is an area of on-going competition from global banks, international providers and disruptive technology innovators. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe digital payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Digital payment volume is growing significantly but does not yet represent a meaningful amount of the payments market. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors and large merchants are investing in and innovating digital payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of digital payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which digital payment technologies or solutions will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well-positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. High profile North American merchant payment card information security breaches have pushed the payment card industry towards EMV integrated circuit cards as financial institutions, card networks and merchants seek to improve information security and reduce fraud costs. We invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards so we can continue to guide our clients through this technology transition and grow our card-driven businesses. We believe the trend to migrate to EMV cards will continue but at a slower volume and pace. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. In the first half of 2017, consolidations resulted in our earning termination fees (which are paid to us when customers leave) that were slightly higher than the previous year period. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our international business continued to experience growth across all major regions, especially Brazil and Asia on a constant currency basis during the first half of 2017. By comparison with FIS, a greater percentage of SunGard's revenues have been contributed historically by international markets, which contributed to this growth trend. Demand for our solutions will also be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our European revenue is generated by clients in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. In 2016, we experienced adverse currency impacts in our international businesses as a consequence of a relative strengthening of the U.S. dollar particularly versus the British pound sterling due in part to Brexit. In 2017, we expect minimal foreign currency impacts. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. 20 Table of Contents As described in Note 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, on July 31, 2017, we sold a majority interest in our consulting businesses to affiliates of CD&R. These businesses had lower margins than many of our other businesses. The consulting businesses sold were included within the GFS and IFS segments. Also, on Feburary 1, 2017, we sold our PS&E businesses, which had been recorded in our corporate segment. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 . Transactions with Related Parties See Note 7 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 21 Table of Contents Comparisons of three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Processing and services revenues $ 2,341 $ 2,305 $ 4,596 $ 4,486 Cost of revenues 1,612 1,600 3,195 3,153 Gross profit 729 705 1,401 1,333 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 370 422 783 866 Operating income 359 283 618 467 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (91 ) (93 ) (183 ) (186 ) Other income (expense), net 4 (1 ) 60 (2 ) Total other income (expense), net (87 ) (94 ) (123 ) (188 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 272 189 495 279 Provision for income taxes 132 66 211 97 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 140 123 284 182 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 1 Net earnings 140 124 284 183 Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (8 ) (3 ) (14 ) (7 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 132 $ 121 $ 270 $ 176 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.37 $ 0.82 $ 0.54 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.37 $ 0.82 $ 0.54 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 330 325 329 325 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.36 $ 0.81 $ 0.53 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.37 $ 0.81 $ 0.54 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 334 329 334 328 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Net earnings from continuing operations $ 132 $ 120 $ 270 $ 175 Net earnings (loss) from discontinued operations 1 1 Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 132 $ 121 $ 270 $ 176 Processing and Services Revenues Processing and services revenues increased $36 million , or 1.6% and $110 million , or 2.5% , during the three and six month periods, respectively, due to volume growth in banking and payment solutions in Brazil and APAC regions, growth in the post trade derivatives utility, growth in corporate and digital solutions driven by mobile banking and digital payments, a new business payment solution and growth in consulting. These increases were partially offset by the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, a decline in global trading solutions, resulting from lower license renewals in 2017 and $9 million and $11 million in unfavorable foreign currency impact during the three and six month periods, respectively, primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar in 2017. Our 2017 revenues also benefited from a lower 22 Table of Contents purchase accounting adjustment, as compared to the 2016 periods, to reduce SunGard acquired deferred revenue to fair value. See "Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited)" under Item 2 of this Quarterly Report for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues totaled $1,612 million and $1,600 million during the three-month periods and $3,195 million and $3,153 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $729 million and $705 million during the respective three-month periods and $1,401 million and $1,333 million during the six-month periods. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 31.1% and 30.6% during the three-month periods and 30.5% and 29.7% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The change in gross profit during the 2017 periods as compared to 2016 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The increase in gross profit percentage during the three and six months ended June 30, 2017 as compared to the 2016 periods is primarily attributable to higher margin item processing solutions, the realization of ongoing expense synergies as well as higher termination fees during the six months of 2017. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $370 million and $422 million during the three-month periods and $783 million and $866 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The year-over-year decrease is primarily driven by integration, cost management initiatives and the sale of PS&E during the first quarter of 2017. Operating Income Operating income totaled $359 million and $283 million during the three-month periods and $618 million and $467 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 15.3% and 12.3% during the three-month periods and 13.4% and 10.4% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. The changes in operating income for the three and six month periods of 2017 as compared to 2016 resulted from the variances addressed above. The increase in operating margin resulted primarily from integration and cost management initiatives, revenue from higher margin item processing solutions as well as higher termination fees during the six months of 2017. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net was $(87) million and $(94) million during the three-month periods and $(123) million and $(188) million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Interest expense is typically the primary component of total other income (expense). On February 1, 2017, the Company closed on the sale of the SunGard Public Sector and Education ("PS&E") business for $850 million , resulting in a pre-tax gain of $85 million , which is included in Other income (expense), net for the six months ended June 30, 2017. Other income (expense), net for the six months ended June 30, 2017 also includes a pre-tax charge of approximately $25 million due to the redemption of the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the pay down of the 2018 Term Loans, consisting of the call premium on the Senior Notes due March 2022 and the write-off of previously capitalized debt issuance costs. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $132 million and $66 million during the three-month periods and $211 million and $97 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , resulting in effective tax rates from continuing operations of 49% and 35% for the three month periods and 43% and 35% for the six-month periods, respectively. The 2017 effective tax rates include a write-off of goodwill with no tax basis in connection with the sale of our PS&E business and additional taxes related to book basis in the stock of Capco Consulting Business assets held for sale in excess of tax basis, partially offset by the tax benefit for the deduction of share based payment awards where the tax deduction exceeded the compensation cost for financial reporting purposes. Earnings from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax, Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $132 million and $120 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.40 and $0.36 for the three-month periods and $270 million and $175 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.81 and $0.53 for the six-months ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. These results reflect the variances described above. 23 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net income (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization, including amortization of purchased intangibles), plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification 280, Segment Reporting. The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments, acquisition, integration and severance costs, and restructuring expenses. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) included in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Integrated Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended Six months ended June 30, June 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Processing and services revenues $ 1,181 $ 1,152 $ 2,310 $ 2,264 Adjusted EBITDA $ 469 $ 447 $ 911 $ 871 Three months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues increased $29 million , or 2.5% , due to growth in corporate and digital solutions driven by mobile banking, internet banking and a new business payment solution contributing 1.0% and banking and wealth solutions contributing 1.0%. Adjusted EBITDA increased $22 million , or 4.9% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 90 basis points to 39.7% primarily driven by a favorable revenue mix and continued cost management. Six months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues increased $46 million , or 2.0% , due to growth in corporate and digital solutions driven by mobile banking, digital payments and a new business payment solution contributing 1.0% and banking and wealth solutions contributing 0.8%. Adjusted EBITDA increased $40 million , or 4.6% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and continued cost management initiatives. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 90 basis points to 39.4% primarily resulting from higher termination fees in 2017 and continued cost management. Global Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended Six months ended June 30, June 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Processing and services revenues $ 1,076 $ 1,048 $ 2,095 $ 2,038 Adjusted EBITDA $ 331 $ 287 $ 614 $ 538 Three months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues increased $28 million , or 2.7% , including approximately $8 million in unfavorable foreign currency impact, primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British pound sterling. Excluding the 24 Table of Contents foreign currency impact, revenue increases were primarily attributable to volume growth in banking and payment solutions in Brazil and APAC regions contributing 2.3%, growth in consulting contributing 0.9% and growth in the post trade derivatives utility contributing 0.8%. Adjusted EBITDA increased $44 million , or 15.3% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and realization of ongoing expense synergies. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 340 basis points to 30.8% primarily resulting from growth in higher margin item processing solutions as well as realization of ongoing expense synergies. Six months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues increased $57 million , or 2.8% , including approximately $8 million in unfavorable foreign currency impact, primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British pound sterling. Excluding the foreign currency impact, revenue increases were primarily attributable to volume growth in banking and payment solutions in Brazil and EMEA and APAC regions contributing 2.8%, growth in the post trade derivatives utility contributing 0.8%, partially offset by a decline in global trading solutions resulting from lower license renewal in 2017 contributing (1.3%). Adjusted EBITDA increased $76 million , or 14.1% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above and realization of ongoing expense synergies. Adjusted EBITDA margins increased 290 basis points to 29.3% primarily resulting from growth in higher margin item processing solutions as well as realization of ongoing expense synergies. Corporate and Other (in millions) Three months ended Six months ended June 30, June 30, 2017 2016 2017 2016 Processing and services revenues $ 84 $ 105 $ 191 $ 184 Adjusted EBITDA $ (54 ) $ (38 ) $ (97 ) $ (76 ) The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from non-strategic businesses, including commercial services, PS&E (which was divested on February 1, 2017), and check processing. Three months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues decreased $21 million , or 20.0% , primarily from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by lower 2017 purchase accounting impact on deferred revenue (all of which was recorded as a contra-revenue item in the Corporate and Other segment). Adjusted EBITDA decreased $16 million , or 42.1% , primarily resulting from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by integration and cost management initiatives. Six months ended June 30: Processing and services revenues increased $7 million , or 3.8% , primarily resulting from a lower 2017 purchase accounting impact on deferred revenue (all of which was recorded as a contra-revenue item in the Corporate and Other segment), partially offset by the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the 2017 period. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $21 million , or 27.6% , primarily resulting from the reduction in revenue from the sale of the PS&E business during the first quarter of 2017, partially offset by integration and cost management initiatives. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements 25 Table of Contents Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt payments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Loan described in Note 4 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As of June 30, 2017 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $786 million and long-term debt of $9.7 billion , including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $786 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $565 million is held by our foreign entities and would generally be subject to U.S. income taxation upon repatriation to the U.S. The majority of our U.S. cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.29 per common share will be paid on September 29, 2017 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 15, 2017. On July 20, 2017 our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $528 million and $820 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations were $292 million lower in the 2017 period primarily due to income tax payments on the gain realized on the sale of PS&E. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $297 million and $293 million in capital expenditures (excluding capital leases) during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Financing For more information regarding the Companys long-term debt and financing activity, including information on its July 2017 debt offering and tender offer, see Note 4 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations during the first six months of 2017 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 23, 2017, except as disclosed in Note 4 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In September 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-16, "Business Combinations (Topic 805): Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments" ("ASU 2015-16"). ASU 2015-16 requires adjustments to provisional amounts initially recorded in a business combination that are identified during the measurement period to be 26 Table of Contents recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, amortization, or other income effects as a result of the change to the provisional amounts, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. ASU 2015-16 also requires an entity to present separately on the face of the income statement or disclose in the notes the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. Prior to the issuance of the standard, entities were required to retrospectively apply adjustments made to provisional amounts recognized in a business combination. The guidance is effective for the fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2015. This guidance requires FIS to record and disclose any measurement-period adjustments for the SunGard acquisition or other future business combinations as current period adjustments as opposed to retroactive adjustments to the opening balance sheet of the acquired entity. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17 ("ASU 2015-17"), "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes". The amendment is intended to simplify the presentation of deferred taxes on the balance sheet. Under the new guidance, deferred tax assets and liabilities are to be classified as non-current assets and liabilities. This replaces the current guidance, which requires the deferred tax assets and liabilities to be presented as current and non-current. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Thus, ASU 2015-17 was effective for FIS as of January 1, 2017. FIS applied prospectively the recording of deferred tax assets and liabilities as non-current and therefore, prior periods have not been adjusted. On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09), Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments are intended to simplify and improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. Under the new guidance, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies over/under compensation expense recognized will be reflected in the income statement as they occur. This will replace the current guidance, which requires tax benefits that exceed compensation expense (windfalls) to be recognized in equity. It will also eliminate the need to maintain a windfall pool, and will remove the requirement to delay recognizing a windfall until it reduces current taxes payable. The new guidance will also change the cash flow presentation of excess tax benefits, classifying them as operating inflows, consistent with other cash flows related to income taxes. Under current guidance, windfalls are classified as financing activities. These changes may result in more volatile net earnings. Similarly, effective tax rates will be subject to more variability since the new guidance reflects all tax benefit excesses and deficiencies in tax expense. Under prior practice, stock compensation generally does not impact the effective tax rate since any difference between compensation expense and the ultimate tax deduction is reflected in additional paid in capital. Also under the new guidance, excess tax benefits will no longer be included in assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing diluted earnings per share since they will no longer be recognized in additional paid in capital. Consequently, the reduction to common stock equivalents for assumed purchases from proceeds will be lower and the impact of common stock equivalents will be more dilutive. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Thus, ASU 2016-09 was effective for FIS as of January 1, 2017. FIS applied prospectively the recording of excess tax benefits as income tax expense and the presentation of those benefits as an operating activity within the statement of cashflows and, therefore, prior periods have not been adjusted. During 2016, 2015 and 2014, we recorded $32 million, $29 million and $40 million, respectively, to consolidated equity as excess tax benefits from our stock plans. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 amends substantially all authoritative literature for revenue recognition, including industry-specific requirements, and converges the guidance under this topic with that of the International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows from contracts with customers. The FASB has issued several amendments to Topic 606, including further guidance on principal versus agent consideration, clarification on identifying performance obligations and accounting for licenses of intellectual property. The effective date of the standard was postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. We will adopt the new standard effective January 1, 2018. Entities can transition to the standard either with retrospective application to the earlier years presented in their financial statements or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We currently anticipate adopting the new standard 27 Table of Contents using the retrospective method with the application of certain practical expedients; however, a final decision regarding the adoption method has not been made. Our decision to adopt using the retrospective method is dependent on several factors, including the significance of the impact on our financial results and the completion of our analysis of information necessary to restate prior-period financial statements . While we continue to assess the impact the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will have on our financial position and results of operations, we currently anticipate changes related to the following areas. Certain revenues currently recorded on a gross basis as a principal may be recorded on a net basis as an agent to the extent the Company does not control the good or service before it is transferred to the customer. Revenue and cost related to set up and implementation services for certain data processing and application management service agreements will be deferred and recognized over the estimated contract period or useful life of the asset to the extent these activities do not transfer a service or are not considered distinct in the context of the related service contracts. Currently, to the extent these activities have standalone value and the related fees are not contingent on the delivery of future services, they are recognized as performed. We also anticipate that the timing of recognition of certain term license early renewals will be deferred until the commencement of the renewal term under the original license agreement. Currently, term license renewals are generally recognized upon execution of the renewal agreement. Additionally, we anticipate recognizing the license portion of software rental fees in certain of our global trading, asset management, and securities processing businesses upon delivery. Currently, software license rental fees are recognized ratably over the rental period as the payments become due and payable. The Company is in the process of quantifying the impact of the issues identified above as well as finalizing its accounting positions on other areas where the impact is not expected to be significant. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02). Under the new guidance, lessees will be required to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of leases with a term of twelve months or less) at the commencement date: (a) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (b) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessees right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The pronouncement requires a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The modified retrospective approach would not require any transition accounting for leases that expire before the earliest comparative period presented. A full retrospective transition approach is not permitted. Public business entities should apply the amendments in ASU 2016-02 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our financial position and results of operations. On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 (ASU 2016-13), Financial Instrument - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments. This ASU's primary objectives are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments (e.g., trade receivables) based on expected credit losses and broadens the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must now be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. Available-for-sale securities should continue to be recognized in a similar manner to current GAAP; however, the allowance should be presented as an allowance instead of a write-down of the basis of the asset. For public companies that are SEC filers, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2018. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation, financial position, or results of operations. On August 26, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15 (ASU 2016-15"), Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. The amendments are meant to reduce the diversity in how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented in the statement of cash flows. ASU 2016-15 provides guidance as to the presentation on the statement of cash flows for eight specific cash flow issues, which are 1) debt prepayment for debt extinguishment costs, 2) settlement of zero-coupon debt instruments or other debt instruments with coupon interest rates that are insignificant in relation to the effective interest rate of the borrowing, 3) contingent consideration payments made after a business combination, 4) proceeds for the settlement of insurance claims, 5) proceeds from the settlement of corporate-owned life insurance policies, including bank-owned life insurance policies, 6) distributions received from equity method investees, 7) beneficial interests in securitization transactions, and 8) separately identifiable cash flows and application of the predominance principle. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation. 28 Table of Contents