Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Employees As of December 31, 2013 , we had more than 38,000 employees, including approximately 23,000 employees principally employed outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. workforce currently is unionized. Approximately 11,000 of our employees primarily in Brazil and Germany are represented by labor unions. We consider our relations with employees to be good. Available Information Our Internet website address is www.fisglobal.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, on that website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Corporate Governance Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website and are available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who mails a request to the Corporate Secretary, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32204 USA. Other corporate governance-related documents can be found at our website as well. However, the information found on our website is not a part of this or any other report. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential customers and making us more dependent on a more limited number of customers. There has been and continues to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. In addition, many financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our customers, have failed. These consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential customers and may reduce our number of existing customers, which could adversely affect our revenues, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. Further, if our customers fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our customers, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to innovate or adapt our services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose customers and have difficulty attracting new customers for our services. The markets for our services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new services and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current services, and develop and introduce new services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers and their clients. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new service development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery, and performance issues. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new services that meet these changing demands, that we will not experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction, and marketing of these services, or that our new services and their enhancements will adequately meet the demands of the marketplace and achieve market acceptance. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenues and/or business prospects. We operate in a competitive business environment and if we are unable to compete effectively our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents The market for our services is intensely competitive. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and since many of our larger potential customers have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we often compete against our potential customers in-house capacities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. See "Item I. Business. Competition." Global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, may adversely affect our customers or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. The global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. Any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the United States, or increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, including related consumer debt, reduce check writing and change credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. Constraints within global financial markets or international regulatory requirements could constrain our financial institution customers' ability to purchase our services, impacting our future growth and profitability. A significant number of our customers and potential customers may hold sovereign debt or be subject to emerging international requirements such as Basel III, which could require changes in their capitalization and hence the amount of their working capital available to purchase our services. These organizations could have their capital constrained if the value of sovereign debt of nations such as Greece, Spain, Italy, Ireland or Portugal continues to decline, if additional countries default on their debt, or if emerging regulatory requirements such as Basel III require institutions to alter their capital structures. These potential constraints could alter the ability of customers or potential customers to purchase our services and thus could have a significant impact on our future growth and profitability. Potential customers may be reluctant to switch to a new vendor, which may adversely affect our growth. For banks and other potential customers of our financial information software and services, switching from one vendor of bank core processing or related software and services (or from an internally-developed system) to a new vendor is a significant undertaking. Many potential customers perceive potential disadvantages such as loss of accustomed functionality, increased costs (including conversion costs) and business disruption. As a result, potential customers may resist change. We seek to overcome this resistance through value enhancing strategies such as a defined conversion process, system integration including bundling additional services and making ongoing investments to enhance the functionality of our software. However, there can be no assurance that our strategies for overcoming potential customers reluctance to change vendors will be successful, and this resistance may adversely affect our growth. The sales and implementation cycles for many of our software and service offerings can be lengthy and require significant investment from both our customers and FIS. If we fail to close sales or if a customer chooses not to complete an installation after expending significant time and resources to do so, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. The sales and associated deployment of many of our software or service offerings often involve significant capital commitments by our customers and/or FIS. Potential customers generally commit significant resources to an evaluation of available software and services and require us to expend substantial time, effort, and money educating them prior to sales. Further, as part of the sale or deployment of our software and services, customers may also require FIS to perform significant related services to complete a proof of concept or custom development to meet their needs. All of the aforementioned activities may expend significant funds and management resources and, ultimately, the customer may determine not to close the sale or complete the implementation. If we are unsuccessful in closing sales or if the customer decides not to complete an implementation after we expend significant funds and management resources or we experience delays, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents We may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our larger clients. Larger clients may be able to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. Further, our smaller and mid-size clients may exert pricing pressure due to pricing competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the customer. On some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. This reduction in revenue could result in an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, failure to renew client contracts on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our business. Our contracts with customers generally run for several years and provide for early termination fees. Terms are generally renegotiated prior to the end of a contract's term. If we are not successful in achieving a high rate of contract renewals on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may experience defects, development delays, installation difficulties, system failure, or other service disruptions with respect to our technology solutions, or execution problems with our transformation services, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Many of our services, including our transformation services, are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. Further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained and may in the future contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our customers or our customers may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. Finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in: (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of customers; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. Any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and customer agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. The Dodd-Frank Act may result in business changes for our customers that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, or prospects for future growth and overall business . Our customers, and as a result our associated software and services, are required to comply with numerous regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act and associated Durbin Amendment were passed and signed into law in 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act represents a comprehensive overhaul of the regulations governing the financial services industry within the United States, established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and will require this and other federal agencies to implement many new regulations, which have the potential to increase the amount and types of regulation on areas of our business that were not previously regulated. The Durbin Amendment established interchange fee ceilings and allowed merchants to direct routing of transactions, both effective October 1, 2011, and established provisions that require all issuers to use at least two unaffiliated networks for processing, effective April 1, 2012. These changes may alter the nature or type of card programs offered by our customers, which could have an ongoing impact on our future growth or revenue for debit cards, debit network or other card programs. Further, these changes could impact the volume or dollar amount of transactions that are routed through our network, which could alter the number of transactions that we process and impact our future processing fee revenue. The regulations and interchange fee provisions released by the Federal Reserve have been challenged in court and we are monitoring how any final judicial decision will impact our customers and our business. Several new regulations and rules will be written and implemented as directed by the aforementioned legislation and these new rules and regulations will require our customers or potential customers to comply with new requirements and could require FIS to directly comply with new regulations. See "Item I. Business. Government Regulation" for more information regarding certain of these new requirements. These new requirements could result in the need for FIS to make capital investments to modify our products and services to facilitate our customers and potential customers' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with new regulations. Further, requirements of the new regulations could result in changes in our customers' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to consumers, which could impact the demand for our software and services as well as alter the type or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our customers. As a result, the new legislation could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenues, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. 12 Table of Contents Many of our customers are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the number of transactions in which our customers engage and, therefore, reduces our revenues. Our customers are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our services must comply. Our customers must ensure that our services and related products work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. Federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our customers' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our products and services, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our customers and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Regulations enacted by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau may require FIS to enact new business practices which may require capital investment which could impact our future operating results. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau regulates financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those organizations. The Bureau is establishing its regulatory agenda and will likely pass additional rules for regulating non-financial institution providers to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices. The impact of these rules may require FIS or its subsidiaries to be subject to additional regulation and adopt additional business practices that could require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. Our revenues from the sale of services to members of VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar organizations are dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. In order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar organizations. These certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. The member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these standards we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. The suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in the rules and regulations governing VISA, MasterCard, American Express, Discover, or other similar organizations could prevent our registration or otherwise limit our ability to provide services, which could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. It is possible that competitive pressures will result in our absorption of a portion of such increases in the future, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. Furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Interchange fees and related practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. The resulting regulatory changes that could occur from proposed regulations could alter the fees charged by card associations and debit networks worldwide. The impact from the regulations could change from time to time and the resulting changes in fees could impact the card issuance or services offered by our customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition due to reductions or changes in types of transactions processed on behalf of our customers. See "Item I. Business. Government Regulation" for more information. If we fail to comply with applicable regulations or to meet regulatory expectations, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely impacted. The majority of our data processing services for financial institutions are not directly subject to Federal or State regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our data processing operations are examined on a regular basis by various federal and state regulatory authorities. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulations or guidelines for operations of a data services provider, we could be subject to regulatory actions or regulatory rating changes, may not meet contractual obligations, or suffer harm to our client relationships or reputation. Failure to meet the aforementioned requirements or to adapt to new requirements 13 Table of Contents at the Federal, State or international level could inhibit our ability to retain existing customers or obtain new customers, which could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition to our data processing services described above, we also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and applicable privacy requirements. Further, our international businesses must comply with applicable laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Failure to maintain compliance with or adapt to changes in any of the aforementioned requirements could result in fines, penalties or regulatory actions that could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Security breaches or attacks, or our failure to comply with laws, regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. We electronically receive, process, store and transmit sensitive business information of our customers. In addition, we collect personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. Such information is necessary to support our customers' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. The uninterrupted operation of our information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to our successful operation. If we fail to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information we secure could be compromised. Unauthorized access to our computer systems or databases could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, or could otherwise cause interruptions in our operations. These risks are greater with increased information transmission over the Internet and the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals. Our Risk Management and Information Security programs are the subject of ongoing review by the federal regulatory agencies with responsibility for oversight of our business. In mid-May 2013, the federal agencies that provide regulatory oversight for FIS issued a confidential report related to their examination of our information security, risk management and internal audit functions between October 2011 and October 2012. We responded to the report and described the actions that we have taken, as well as ongoing efforts underway to address specific findings. The regulatory agencies distributed the report, and a cover letter, to a subset of our regulated clients beginning in late May 2013. This prompted inquiries from clients, which, to the extent permitted by federal regulation, FIS has addressed on an individual basis. We are unable to predict with certainty what, if any, further communications our regulators will have with our regulated financial institution clients. We are also unable to predict the effect that any such communications may have on our business. It remains possible that future actions by our regulators or clients related to this matter could have a material adverse impact on our business. As a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, we are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information we receive from our customers as apply to the customers themselves. If we fail to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, we could be exposed to suits for breach of contract, governmental proceedings, the imposition of fines, or prohibitions on card processing services. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause our existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and terminate their agreements with us, inhibit our ability to attract new customers, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate our business. High profile payment card industry security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. We are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards. If consumers transact less on cards issued by our customers and we are not able to adapt to offer our customers new preferred consumer payment technologies, it could have a significant adverse impact on our revenue and related earnings. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. If our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. As our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could: (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert managements attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. We face liability to our merchant customers if checks that we have guaranteed are dishonored by the check writers bank. If a check that we have guaranteed is dishonored by the check writers bank, we must reimburse our merchant customer for the checks face value and pursue collection of the amount from the check writer. In some cases, we recognize a liability to our merchant customers for estimated check returns and a receivable for amounts we estimate we will recover from the check writers, based on historical experience and other relevant factors. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned may exceed our estimates and actual amounts recovered by us may be less than our estimates. Lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, ACH payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. If the continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments were compromised, this could result in a financial loss to us. In addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide ACH services in support of funds settlement for certain of our products. If we are unable to obtain such ACH services in the future, that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. Furthermore, if one of our customers for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to an error of their controls, we may suffer a financial loss if the customer does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. Failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in the operation of our wealth management business in the U.K could have adverse liability consequences. We have a wealth management business in the U.K. engaged in processing securities transactions on behalf of customers and serving as a custodian. Failure to properly manage or mitigate risks in those operations and increased volatility in the financial markets may increase the magnitude of resulting losses, including those that may arise from human errors or omissions, defects or interruptions in computer or communications systems or breakdowns in processes or in internal controls. Human errors or omissions may include failures to comply with applicable laws or corporate policies and procedures, theft, fraud or misappropriation of assets, whether arising from the intentional actions of internal personnel or external third parties. We have business in emerging markets such as Brazil and India. These emerging markets may experience significant economic volatility in the future, which could add volatility to our revenue and earnings. 15 Table of Contents In our ISG segment, we have operations in emerging markets, primarily in Brazil, India and southeast Asia. These emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in North America and Europe, which could add volatility to our future revenues and earnings. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. Our international operations represent approximately 21% of total 2013 revenues, which are largely conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, including the Brazilian Real, British Pound, Euro and Indian Rupee. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differences in business practices and changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar versus local currencies. In addition, we are less well-known internationally than in the United States, have less experience with local business conditions and may face challenges in successfully managing small operations located far from our headquarters, because of the greater difficulty in overseeing and guiding operations from a distance. As we expand our international operations, more of our customers may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. Dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in Brazil, Europe, Australia and parts of Asia. The U.S. Dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the U.S. Dollar (our reporting currency), our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These risks could cause an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. Failure to attract and retain skilled technical employees or senior management personnel could harm our ability to grow. Our future success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled technical personnel. Because the development of our products and services requires knowledge of computer hardware, operating system software, system management software and application software, our technical personnel must be proficient in a number of disciplines. Competition for such technical personnel is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future growth will also require sales and marketing, financial and administrative personnel to develop and support new products and services, to enhance and support current products and services and to expand operational and financial systems. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our growth strategies and we may experience constraints that could adversely affect our ability to satisfy client demand in a timely fashion. Our ability to maintain compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations and to manage and monitor the risks facing our business relies upon the ability to maintain skilled compliance, security, risk and audit professionals. Competition for such skillsets is intense, and our failure to hire and retain talented personnel could have an adverse effect on our internal control environment and impact our operating results. Our senior management team has significant experience in the financial services industry, either at FIS or with clients or competitors, and the loss of this leadership could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, the loss of this leadership may have an adverse impact on senior management's ability to provide effective oversight and strategic direction for all key functions within the Company, which could impact our future business, operating results and financial condition. We are the subject of various legal proceedings that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. We are involved in various litigation matters, including in some cases class-action and patent infringement litigation. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in the litigation matters, we may be forced to pay damages and/or change our business practices, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or unfavorable future tax law changes could adversely affect our tax expense. 16 Table of Contents Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by Federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, and could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. Unfavorable future tax law changes could also result in these negative impacts. Risks Related to Business Combinations and Ventures We have a substantial investment in our Brazilian Venture and drive significant revenue through that venture that would be lost and result in significant termination costs if our venture partner were to terminate the agreement. Revenue attributable to our Brazilian Venture partner, Banco Bradesco, accounted for $296.2 million in 2013 . The contract that we have with our Brazilian Venture partner allows for the termination or partial termination of the contract at any point during the 10-year term, which ends September 30, 2020. This risk of contract termination is mitigated by guaranteed performance targets and minimum payments that would be triggered upon the event of an early termination. These payments have been established based on FIS' expected rate of return for the contract over a 10-year period. The required payments and buyouts decline each year and are further reduced by returns in excess of the expected returns for the contract and reduce the overall barrier to exiting the venture. If our partner were to exit the agreement, this could have a significant impact on our future revenue and growth. For further detail on our Brazilian Venture see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, we employ approximately 11,000 employees in Brazil who would have the ability to file labor claims if their employment is terminated. If our Brazilian Venture partner were to terminate the agreement, we may be subject to labor claims filed by employees of the Brazilian Venture. These claims, if realized, could result in a significant cost and impact to our earnings. We have substantial investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of prior acquisitions, and a severe or extended economic downturn could cause these investments to become impaired, requiring write-downs that would reduce our operating income. As of December 31, 2013 , goodwill aggregated to $8,500.0 million , or 60.9% of total assets, and other indefinite lived intangible assets aggregated to $80.8 million , or 0.6% of total assets. Current accounting rules require goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets to be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. The results of our 2013 annual assessment of the recoverability of goodwill indicated that the fair values of the Companys reporting units were in excess of the carrying values of those reporting units, and thus no goodwill impairment existed as of December 31, 2013 . Likewise, the fair value of indefinite lived intangible assets was also in excess of the carrying value of those assets as of December 31, 2013. However, if worldwide or United States economic conditions decline significantly with negative impacts to bank spending and consumer behavior , or if other business or market changes impact our outlook , the carrying amount of our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets may no longer be recoverable and we may be required to record an impairment charge, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. As of December 31, 2013 , intangible assets with definite useful lives aggregated to $1,258.5 million , or 9.0% of total assets. Current accounting rules require intangible assets with definite useful lives to be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstance include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, a significant decline in our stock price and market capitalization, and negative industry or economic trends. We will continue to monitor the fair value of our intangible assets as well as our market capitalization and the impact of any economic downturn on our business to determine if there is an impairment in future periods. Risks Related to our Indebtedness Losses, consolidations and failures in the financial services industry may impact our ability to borrow funds or the ability of our lenders to fulfill their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements. 17 Table of Contents Some financial institutions continue to be challenged by negative operating results. In certain cases, these negative operating results have led to financial institution failures and/or consolidations. As a result, lenders may become insolvent or further tighten lending standards, which could in turn make it more difficult or impossible for lenders to perform their obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or for us to borrow under our revolving loan, obtain financing on favorable terms, or obtain financing or interest rate swap agreements at all. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if a financial institution fails to fulfill its obligations under our interest rate swap agreements or we are unable to draw funds under our revolving loan or obtain other cost-effective financing. Our existing debt levels and future levels under existing facilities and debt service requirements may adversely affect our financial condition or operational flexibility and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our outstanding indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013 , we had total debt of approximately $4,468.6 million . This level of debt could have adverse consequences for our business, financial condition, operating results and operational flexibility, including the following: (i) the debt level may cause us to have difficulty borrowing money in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes; (ii) our debt level may limit operational flexibility and our ability to pursue business opportunities and implement certain business strategies; (iii) some of our debt has a variable rate of interest, which exposes us to the risk of increased interest rates; (iv) we have a higher level of debt than some of our competitors or potential competitors, which may cause a competitive disadvantage and may reduce flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions, including increased competition and vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions ; (v) there are significant maturities on our debt that we may not be able to fulfill or that may be refinanced at higher rates; and (vi) if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our outstanding debt or fail to comply with the financial or other restrictive covenants contained in the indenture governing our senior notes, or our credit facility, an event of default could result that could cause all of our debt to become due and payable. The covenants relating to our notes and the FIS Credit Agreement are limited and do not prohibit us from incurring additional debt or taking other actions that could exacerbate the risks described in the preceding risk factor or otherwise negatively impact holders of our notes. We may be able to incur substantially more debt in the future. Although the indenture governing our Notes and the agreements governing the FIS Credit Agreement (as both are defined in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and other indebtedness each contain restrictions on our incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and under certain circumstances, indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. As of December 31, 2013 , we had approximately $1,970.2 million of borrowing capacity available under our existing FIS Credit Agreement. To the extent new debt is added to our current levels, the risks described above could substantially increase. Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information The statements contained in this Form 10-K or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; 18 Table of Contents the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in or new laws or regulations affecting the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential customers to communications from us or our regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties FIS corporate headquarters is located at 601 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida. In addition, FIS owns or leases support centers, data processing facilities and other facilities at approximately 140 locations. We believe our facilities and equipment are generally well maintained and are in good operating condition. We believe that the computer equipment that we own and our various facilities are adequate for our present and foreseeable business needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the ordinary course of business, the Company is involved in various pending and threatened litigation matters related to operations, some of which include claims for punitive or exemplary damages. The Company believes that no actions, other than the matters listed below, depart from customary litigation incidental to its business. As background to the disclosure below, please note the following: These matters raise difficult and complicated factual and legal issues and are subject to many uncertainties and complexities. The Company reviews all of its litigation on an on-going basis and follows the authoritative provisions for accounting for contingencies when making accrual and disclosure decisions. A liability must be accrued if (a) it is probable that a liability has been incurred and (b) the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. If one of these criteria has not been met, disclosure is required when there is at least a reasonable possibility that a material loss may be incurred. When assessing reasonably possible and probable outcomes, the Company bases decisions on the assessment of the ultimate outcome following all appeals. Legal fees associated with defending litigation matters are expensed as incurred. CheckFree Corporation and CashEdge, Inc. v. Metavante Corporation and Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. This is a patent infringement action that was filed by CheckFree Corporation and CashEdge, Inc., subsidiaries of Fiserv, Inc., against Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. and our subsidiary, Metavante Corporation (collectively the 19 Table of Contents Defendants) in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida, Jacksonville Division on January 5, 2012. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees for the alleged infringement of three patents. Plaintiffs allege that the Defendants infringe the patents at issue by providing customers financial and payment solutions that process payment instructions, provide electronic biller notifications, and/or process account-to-account funds transfer transactions and have requested financial damages and injunctive relief. Defendants filed their Answer and Counterclaims to Plaintiffs' complaint for patent infringement denying the claims of patent infringement and asserting defenses, including non-infringement and invalidity. Additionally, Defendants filed counterclaims asserting patent infringement of three patents and adding Fiserv, Inc. as a Counter Defendant. Defendants seek damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs and Counter Defendant Fiserv, Inc., filed their Answer to Defendants' counterclaims denying the claims of patent infringement and asserting defenses, including non-infringement and invalidity. In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Court granted Plaintiffs' Motion to Amend its First Amended Complaint to add a fourth patent and Defendants' Motion to Amend its First Amended Answer and Counterclaims. Defendants filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking an order invalidating all of the Plaintiffs' asserted patents. Plaintiffs filed a Motion for Summary Judgment seeking to invalidate select patent claims from one of Defendants' asserted patents. On June 24, 2013, Defendants filed for covered business method (CBM) post-grant reviews of the validity of the Plaintiff's asserted patents at the US Patent and Trademark Office. On June 25, 2013, Defendants filed a Motion to Stay the case pending the outcome of the CBM post-grant reviews. The Court denied Plaintiffs' Motion for Summary Judgment. On December 23, 2013, the US Patent Office instituted Defendants CBM Petitions, thereby agreeing to review the validity of Plaintiff's patents. Additionally, on January 17, 2014, the Court granted Defendants Motion to Stay the litigation pending the outcome of the CBM review proceedings. An estimate of a possible loss or range of possible loss, if any, for this litigation cannot be made at this time. DataTreasury Corporation v. Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. et. al. This patent infringement lawsuit was filed on May 28, 2013 by DataTreasury Corporation (DTC) against Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (the Company) and multiple customer banks in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division. Plaintiff alleges that the Company infringes the patents at issue by making, using, selling or offering to sell systems and methods for image-based check processing. The Complaint seeks damages, injunctive relief and attorneys' fees for the alleged infringement of two patents. On October 25, 2013, the Company filed for covered business method (CBM) post-grant reviews of the validity of the Plaintiff's asserted patents at the US Patent and Trademark Office. On December 18, 2013, the Company filed a Motion to Stay the case pending the outcome of the CBM post-grant reviews. An estimate of a possible loss or range of possible loss, if any, for this action cannot be made at this time. Indemnifications and Warranties The Company generally indemnifies its customers, subject to certain limitations and exceptions, against damages and costs resulting from claims of patent, copyright, or trademark infringement associated solely with its customers' use of the Company's software applications or services. Historically, the Company has not made any material payments under such indemnifications, but continues to monitor the conditions that are subject to the indemnifications to identify whether it is probable that a loss has occurred, and would recognize any such losses when they are estimable. In addition, the Company warrants to customers that its software operates substantially in accordance with the software specifications. Historically, no material costs have been incurred related to software warranties and no accruals for warranty costs have been made. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol FIS. The table set forth below provides the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock and the cash dividends declared per share of common stock for each quarter of 2013 and 2012 . 20 Table of Contents High Low Dividend 2013 First Quarter $ 39.62 $ 35.57 $ 0.22 Second Quarter $ 45.80 $ 39.05 $ 0.22 Third Quarter $ 47.41 $ 42.80 $ 0.22 Fourth Quarter $ 53.68 $ 44.90 $ 0.22 2012 First Quarter $ 33.35 $ 26.43 $ 0.20 Second Quarter $ 34.08 $ 31.24 $ 0.20 Third Quarter $ 34.80 $ 30.71 $ 0.20 Fourth Quarter $ 36.97 $ 30.89 $ 0.20 As of January 31, 2014, there were approximately 13,160 shareholders of record of our common stock. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. On January 29, 2014, the Board of Directors approved an increase to $0.24 per share per quarter beginning with the first quarter of 2014. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.24 per common share is payable on March 31, 2014, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 17, 2014. Item 12 of Part III contains information concerning securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans. Our Board of Directors has approved a series of plans authorizing repurchases of our common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions. On January 29, 2014, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of our common stock up to $2,000.0 million through December 31, 2017. This share repurchase authorization replaces the existing share repurchase authorization. The table below summarizes annual share repurchase activity under these plans (in millions, except per share amounts): Total cost of shares purchased as part of Total number of Average price publicly announced Year ended shares purchased paid per share plans or programs December 31, 2013 10.7 $ 44.58 $ 475.9 December 31, 2012 * 14.0 $ 32.24 $ 451.4 December 31, 2011 15.0 $ 26.61 $ 399.2 December 31, 2010 1.4 $ 22.97 $ 32.2 * Includes the repurchase of 5.7 million shares from WPM, L.P. for $200.0 million , or $35.03 per share, in December 2012. Share repurchase activity in the fourth quarter of 2013 is as follows (in millions, except per share amounts): Total cost of shares purchased as part of Total number of Average price publicly announced Month ended shares purchased paid per share plans or programs December 31, 2013 1.3 $ 51.68 $ 64.0 November 30, 2013 1.2 $ 49.79 $ 61.7 On May 25, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a leveraged recapitalization plan to repurchase up to $2.5 billion of our common stock at a price range of $29.00 - $31.00 per share of common stock through a modified "Dutch auction" tender 21 Table of Contents offer (the "Tender Offer"). The Tender Offer was oversubscibed at $29.00 , resulting in the purchase of 86.2 million shares, including 6.4 million shares underlying previously unexercised stock options. The repurchased shares were added to treasury stock. Stock Performance Graph The performance graph below shows the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the period starting on December 31, 2008, and ending on December 31, 2013 . This is compared with the cumulative total returns over the same period of (1) the S&P 500 Index and (2) the S&P Supercap Data Processing & Outsourced Services Index (peer group). The graph assumes that on December 31, 2008, $100 was invested in our common stock and $100 was invested in the other two indices, with dividends reinvested on the date of payment without payment of any commissions. The performance shown in the graph represents past performance and should not be considered an indication of future performance. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The selected financial data set forth below constitutes historical financial data of FIS and should be read in conjunction with Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, included elsewhere in this report. On October 1, 2009, we completed the acquisition of Metavante Technologies, Inc. ("Metavante"). The results of operations and financial position of Metavante are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements since the date of acquisition. The purchase price for our 2010 acquisition of Capco included future contingent consideration in addition to cash paid at closing. The liability for the earn-out provisions and for an employee incentive plan established in conjunction with the acquisition were adjusted in 2013 as a result of amendments based on management's outlook and increased projections of Capco's future results as addressed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We sold our Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business in 2012 and have classified the results of operations of that business as discontinued operations for all periods presented as discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 22 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In millions, except per share data) Statement of Earnings Data: Processing and services revenues $ 6,070.7 $ 5,807.6 $ 5,625.6 $ 5,145.6 $ 3,680.1 Cost of revenues 4,085.6 3,946.9 3,919.1 3,553.7 2,720.5 Gross profit 1,985.1 1,860.7 1,706.5 1,591.9 959.6 Selling, general and administrative expenses 920.7 781.5 647.9 654.0 541.6 Impairment charges 9.1 154.9 136.9 Operating income 1,064.4 1,079.2 1,049.5 783.0 281.1 Total other income (expense) (239.4 ) (248.0 ) (322.5 ) (184.9 ) (121.9 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and equity in loss of unconsolidated entities 825.0 831.2 727.0 598.1 159.2 Provision for income taxes 309.2 270.9 232.4 208.4 53.0 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 515.8 560.3 494.6 389.7 106.2 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1.9 (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) 2.3 Net earnings 517.7 481.1 481.1 357.9 108.5 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24.6 ) (19.9 ) (11.5 ) 46.6 (2.6 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 493.1 $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 $ 105.9 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.70 $ 1.85 $ 1.61 $ 1.26 $ 0.44 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) 0.01 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.70 $ 1.58 $ 1.56 $ 1.17 $ 0.45 Weighted average shares basic 289.7 291.8 300.6 345.1 236.4 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.67 $ 1.82 $ 1.57 $ 1.24 $ 0.43 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.04 ) (0.09 ) 0.01 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.68 $ 1.55 $ 1.53 $ 1.15 $ 0.44 Weighted average shares diluted 294.2 297.5 307.0 352.0 239.4 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 491.2 $ 540.4 $ 483.1 $ 436.3 $ 103.6 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1.9 (79.2 ) (13.5 ) (31.8 ) 2.3 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 493.1 $ 461.2 $ 469.6 $ 404.5 $ 105.9 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 (In millions, except per share data) Balance Sheet Data : Cash and cash equivalents $ 547.5 $ 517.6 $ 415.5 $ 338.0 $ 430.9 Goodwill 8,500.0 8,381.5 8,542.8 8,550.0 8,232.9 Other intangible assets, net 1,339.3 1,576.2 1,903.3 2,202.9 2,396.8 Total assets 13,960.1 13,549.7 13,873.2 14,176.3 13,997.6 Total long-term debt 4,468.6 4,385.5 4,809.8 5,192.1 3,253.3 Total FIS stockholders equity 6,580.5 6,640.9 6,503.0 6,403.2 8,308.9 Noncontrolling interest 156.8 152.7 148.2 158.4 209.7 Total equity 6,737.3 6,793.6 6,651.2 6,561.6 8,518.6 Cash dividends declared per share $ 0.88 $ 0.80 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 Selected Quarterly Financial Data Selected unaudited quarterly financial data is as follows: Quarter Ended March 31, June 30, September 30, December 31, (In millions, except per share data) 2013 Processing and services revenues $ 1,478.0 $ 1,512.5 $ 1,501.7 $ 1,578.5 Gross profit 470.0 484.3 507.1 523.7 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 228.5 136.3 280.3 179.9 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders 144.1 104.8 172.3 71.9 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.50 $ 0.36 $ 0.60 $ 0.25 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.49 $ 0.36 $ 0.59 $ 0.25 2012 Processing and services revenues $ 1,413.4 $ 1,457.2 $ 1,436.9 $ 1,500.1 Gross profit 423.9 476.1 468.1 492.6 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 142.2 224.3 232.4 232.3 Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders 87.1 150.6 86.8 136.7 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.51 $ 0.30 $ 0.47 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.29 $ 0.50 $ 0.29 $ 0.46 24 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following section discusses managements view of the financial condition and results of operations of FIS and its consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . This section should be read in conjunction with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes of FIS included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements. See Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of the uncertainties, risks and assumptions associated with these forward-looking statements that could cause future results to differ materially from those reflected in this section. Overview FIS is a leading global provider of banking and payments technologies, complemented by strategic consulting services, professional services and outsourcing services. With a long history deeply rooted in the financial services industry and banking and payment technology solutions, FIS delivers services to more than 14,000 institutions in over 100 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs more than 38,000 employees worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing solutions and integrated banking solutions, providing outsourced solutions, software and services for technologies and processes that drive a financial institutions operations. Through our Capco brand, we deliver globally a wide range of information technology consulting and transformational services to financial institutions. FIS has topped the annual FinTech 100 list, a ranking of financial services industry technology providers, for the last three years and is a member of the Fortune 500 U.S. and of Standard and Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, consulting and professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our customers' operations. A significant portion of these recurring revenues is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of deposit accounts and card transactions associated with consumer and commercial activity. Consulting and professional services revenues are typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our customers. One of the current trends in the financial services industry from which we are benefiting is the migration by our clients to an outsourced model to improve their profitability. We compete for both licensing and outsourcing business, and thus are affected by the decisions of financial institutions to use our services under an outsourced arrangement or to instead manage their technology operations internally under a software license and maintenance agreement with us. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of year-to-year economic changes on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are targeted and well positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. We believe that current market pressures in the financial services industry create an opportunity for our consulting and professional services. Many financial institutions are at an inflection point that demands that they transform their businesses to significantly reduce their cost base while also responding to the competitive pressures of innovation and to increased regulatory oversight with regard to information technology and related processes. Capco provides strategic consulting service capabilities to respond to these market needs. Consulting services revenue grew at an increased pace in 2013 and we expect this trend to continue in 2014. However, if consulting and professional services revenue and gross margin grow as a percentage of our overall revenue and gross margin, our overall gross margin percentage would be reduced, as gross margin percentage realized for professional services is lower than that for most of our other services. In addition, as consulting and professional services revenue grow as a portion of our overall revenue, we will have a lower overall percentage of recurring revenue as generally these services are non-recurring. Although our consulting revenue grew in 2013, our gross margins also improved slightly, aided in part by non-recurring termination fees from a significant customer that deconverted from certain of our services following a merger with another bank. However, the greater volume of consulting-based earnings in 2013 also contributed to our decision to take a charge for contingent payments due in connection with our 2010 acquisition of Capco; this charge adversely affected our operating margin in 2013. We see in particular a market opportunity in large global financial institutions, where we believe we can couple our strategic consulting and transformation services with outsourced technology, services and solutions to help them achieve their business goals. These large institutions are subject to the pressures described above that are generating revenue for our 25 Table of Contents consulting services, and moreover appear poised to increase technology spending to meet competitive pressures after a slowdown during the recent financial crisis years. We are investing in management, sales and account management resources to pursue this market opportunity. Our current target is to invest an incremental $30 million in this initiative in 2014. Mobile banking is growing in popularity as consumers embrace the convenience and younger digital-savvy consumers grow in proportion to the banked population. We expect this trend to continue and grow. We continue to focus and invest in adapting and developing new mobile solutions to assist our customers with this transition. We expect to see more demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe mobile payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time. This presents both a growth opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Mobile payment volume does not yet represent a significant amount of the payments market and it is unclear which technology or service will be the dominant solution. Additionally, new non-traditional payments competitors are investing in and innovating mobile payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity. Although we cannot predict which mobile payment technology or solution will be the most successful, we cautiously believe our customer relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well positioned to maintain or grow our customers' existing payment volumes. The growing risk of identity theft and fraud has also led to an increased demand for risk management solutions and we are focused on solutions to address this trend. Card transactions continue to grow as a percentage of overall payment volumes as consumers shift payments to cards from checks and cash. We have invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards, often referred to as smart cards or chip cards, so we can guide our customers through this anticipated technology transition, sustain and grow our card driven businesses. We continue to monitor the impacts of regulation on the payment card industry and the Durbin amendment in particular (see Business-Government Regulation section for more information). To date, the impact of the Durbin amendment on our card payment volumes is insignificant. We continuously monitor the marketplace as it adapts to the Durbin amendment and its ongoing regulatory developments, but are unable to determine at this time whether there will be a significant favorable or unfavorable impact on our payment card businesses in the future. The Durbin amendment has affected the marketplace for our EFT network business, as its rules and regulations allow merchants more discretion to determine their transaction network routing and to consider multiple alternative networks. To date, the impact of the Durbin amendment has been modestly favorable to our EFT network business as we have competed effectively. At this time, we are unable to determine whether there will be a significant favorable or unfavorable impact on our EFT network business in the future. The use of checks continues to decline as a percentage of total payments, which negatively impacts our check warranty and item-processing businesses and we expect this trend to continue. To date, we have been able to successfully mitigate the majority of the impacts of this decline through cost and fraud efficiency actions and new market solutions, which remain our continued focus. While we are cautious regarding broader economic improvement, we expect banks to continue investing in new technology and believe we are well positioned to capitalize as the overall market continues to recover. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity. As a whole, consolidation activity is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial or detrimental to our business. When consolidations occur, merger partners often operate disparate systems licensed from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose market share if we are providing services to both entities, or we are not the merging parties' provider of core or payment processing, or if a customer of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our international business continued to experience growth across all major regions on a constant currency basis during the year ended December 31, 2013 , including Latin America, Europe and Asia. We expect this growth trend to continue as the result of the addition of new, large-scale outsourcing clients in all of these regions in 2013 and the demand opportunities we see for similar arrangements. Demand for our solutions will also be driven in 26 Table of Contents developing countries by government led financial inclusion policies aimed to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our European revenue is generated by clients in Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Information Security Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect will continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. FIS is not immune to such attacks. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS, like any large financial technology service provider, is subject to attempted cyber-attacks on a regular basis. A successful cyber-attack on an FIS system that resulted in sensitive information being compromised, fraud losses or other adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company. As a Multi-Regional Data Processing Servicer (MDPS), FIS continues to be examined by and have regular interaction with the federal agencies that regulate financial institutions. These regulators have the authority to take actions they deem necessary to protect the safety and soundness of the financial institutions they regulate. Such actions, if taken, could have a material adverse impact on our business. FIS regularly reports to its regulators and to its clients regarding the Company's continual efforts to enhance its information security and risk management technology, programs and procedures. In mid-May 2013, the federal agencies that provide regulatory oversight for FIS issued a confidential report related to their examination of our information security, risk management and internal audit functions between October 2011 and October 2012. We responded to the report and described the actions that we have taken, as well as ongoing efforts underway to address specific findings. The regulatory agencies distributed the report, and a cover letter, to a subset of our regulated clients beginning in late May 2013. This prompted inquiries from clients, which, to the extent permitted by federal regulation, FIS has addressed on an individual basis. While individual clients and prospects have expressed concern over the report, we do not believe that it has had a material effect on the overall sales closures in 2013 or our sales pipeline; however, we continue to monitor sales activity and any potential impact on future periods. We are unable to predict with certai nty what, if any, communications or actions our regulators will have or take with our regulated financial institution clients with respect to our risk management and information security. We are also unable to predict the effect that any such communications or actions may have o n our business. FIS remains focused on providing strategic investments in information security to protect its clients and its information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. Critical Accounting Policies The accounting policies described below are those we consider critical in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. These policies require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures with respect to contingent liabilities and assets at the date of the Consolidated Financial Statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual amounts could differ from those estimates. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a more detailed description of the significant accounting policies that have been followed in preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenues from the delivery of bank processing, credit and debit card processing services, other payment processing services, professional services, software licensing and software related services. Revenues are recognized when evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, fees are fixed or determinable and collection is considered probable. We are frequently a party to multiple concurrent contracts with the same customer. These situations require judgment to determine whether the individual contracts should be aggregated or evaluated separately for purposes of revenue recognition. In making this determination, we consider the timing of negotiating and executing the contracts, whether the different elements of the contracts are interdependent and whether any of the payment terms of the contracts are interrelated. Our individual contracts also frequently include multiple elements. We must apply judgment in these circumstances in determining whether individual elements can be considered separate units of accounting or should instead be accounted for in combination with other deliverables. Judgment is also required in ascribing fair value to each deliverable for purposes of allocating consideration. Due to the large number, broad nature and average size of individual contracts we are party to, the impact of judgments and assumptions that we apply in recognizing revenue for any single contract is not likely to have a material effect 27 Table of Contents on our consolidated operations or financial position. However, the broader accounting policy assumptions that we apply across similar arrangements or classes of customers could significantly influence the timing and amount of revenue recognized in our historical and future results of operations or financial position. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company analyzes trade accounts receivable by considering historical bad debts, customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, changes in customer payment terms and collection trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Any change in the assumptions used may result in an additional allowance for doubtful accounts being recognized in the period in which the change occurs. Provision for Check Guarantee Losses In our check guarantee business, if a guaranteed check presented to a merchant customer is dishonored by the check writers bank, we reimburse our merchant customer for the checks face value and pursue collection of the amount from the delinquent check writer. Loss provisions and anticipated recoveries are primarily determined by performing a historical analysis of our check loss and recovery experience and considering other factors that could affect that experience in the future. Such factors include the general economy, the overall industry mix of our customer volumes, statistical analysis of check fraud trends within our customer volumes and the quality of returned checks. The estimated check returns and recovery amounts are subject to the risk that actual amounts returned and recovered may be different than our estimates. Historically, our estimation processes have proved to be materially accurate; however, our projections of probable check guarantee losses and anticipated recoveries are inherently uncertain and as a result, we cannot predict with certainty the amount of such items. Changes in economic conditions, the risk characteristics and composition of our customers, and other factors could impact our actual and projected amounts. We recorded check guarantee losses, net of anticipated recoveries excluding service fees, of $57.3 million , $54.7 million and $68.0 million , respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 . A ten percent difference in our estimated check guarantee loss provisions net of estimated recoveries as of December 31, 2013 , would have impacted 2013 net earnings by less than $2.0 million, after-tax. Computer Software Computer software includes the fair value of software acquired in business combinations, purchased software and capitalized software development costs. Purchased software is recorded at cost and amortized using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life and software acquired in business combinations is recorded at its fair value and amortized using straight-line or accelerated methods over its estimated useful life. The capitalization of software development costs is governed by FASB ASC Subtopic 985-20 if the software is to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed, or by FASB ASC Subtopic 350-40 if the software is for internal use. After the technological feasibility of the software has been established (for software to be marketed), or at the beginning of application development (for internal-use software), software development costs, which include primarily salaries and related payroll costs and costs of independent contractors incurred during development, are capitalized. Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility (for software to be marketed), or prior to application development (for internal-use software), are expensed as incurred. Software development costs are amortized on a product-by-product basis commencing on the date of general release of the products (for software to be marketed) or the date placed in service (for internal-use software). Software development costs for software to be marketed are amortized using the greater of (1) the straight-line method over its estimated useful life, which ranges from three to 10 years, or (2) the ratio of current revenues to total anticipated revenues over its useful life. In determining useful lives, management considers historical results and technological trends that may influence the estimate. Useful lives for all computer software range from three to 10 years. We also assess the recorded value of computer software for impairment on a regular basis by comparing the carrying value to the estimated future cash flows to be generated by the underlying software asset (for software to be marketed). There are inherent uncertainties in determining the expected useful life or cash flows to be generated from computer software. While we have not historically experienced significant changes in these estimates, our results of operations could be subject to such changes in the future. 28 Table of Contents Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We are required to allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, are complex and require a significant amount of management judgment. We generally engage independent valuation specialists to assist us in making fair value determinations. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our definite-lived intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additionally, we review our indefinite-lived intangible assets to determine if there is any change in circumstances that may indicate the assets useful life is no longer indefinite. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations. Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives should not be amortized, but shall be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate potential impairment. In 2011, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-08 ("ASU 2011-08"), Testing Goodwill for Impairment. The revised standard allows an entity first to assess qualitatively whether it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, referred to in the guidance as "step zero." If an entity concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit's fair value is less than its carrying amount (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent), the "step one" quantitative assessment must be performed for that reporting unit. ASU 2011-08 provided examples of events and circumstances that should be considered in performing the "step zero" qualitative assessment, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance, events affecting a reporting unit or the entity as a whole and a sustained decrease in share price. We assess goodwill for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter using a September 30th measurement date unless circumstances require a more frequent measurement. For 2013 and 2011, we began our assessment with the step zero qualitative analysis because there was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our reporting units in the 2012 and 2010 step one analyses. In performing the step zero qualitative analysis for each of 2013 and 2011, examining those factors most likely to affect our valuations, we concluded that it remained more likely than not that the fair value of each of our reporting units continued to exceed their carrying amounts. Consequently, we did not perform a step one analysis in 2013 or 2011. For 2012, primarily for the purpose of validating our valuation assumptions, we elected to proceed directly to the step one quantitative analysis rather than perform the step zero qualitative assessment. In applying the quantitative analysis, we determine the fair value of our reporting units based on a weighted average of multiple valuation techniques, principally a combination of an income approach and a market approach. The income approach calculates a value based upon the present value of estimated future cash flows, while the market approach uses earnings multiples of similarly situated guideline public companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the reporting units net assets, goodwill is not impaired and further testing is not required. Based upon the results of this test, there were no indications of impairment for any of our reporting units for 2012. We also estimate the fair value of acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives and compare this amount to the underlying carrying value annually. FASB Accounting Standards Update No. 2012-02 ("ASU 2012-02") modified the former requirement to perform an annual quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets. Similar to the ASU 2011-08 guidance for goodwill, it allows an organization to first perform a qualitative assessment of whether it is more likely than not that an asset has been impaired. For 2013, we began our assessment with the step zero qualitative analysis because there was a substantial excess of fair value over carrying value for each of our indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2012. Based upon the results of this test, there were no indications of impairment, except for one trademark with nominal value. For 2012, we proceeded directly with a quantitative analysis, using a form of income approach valuation known as the relief-from-royalty method. Our tests did not result in the impairment of any of our intangible assets for 2012, while the same tests performed in 2011 did result in an impairment charge of $9.1 million related to the Capco trademark in North America. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit or acquired intangible assets with indefinite lives involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions and other assumptions. 29 Table of Contents Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to determine income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves estimating actual current tax expense together with assessing temporary differences resulting from differing recognition of items for income tax and financial reporting purposes. These differences result in deferred income tax assets and liabilities, which are included within the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We must then assess the likelihood that deferred income tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and, to the extent we believe that recovery is not likely, establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or increase or decrease this allowance in a period, we must reflect this increase or decrease as an expense or benefit within income tax expense in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Determination of the income tax expense requires estimates and can involve complex issues that may require an extended period to resolve. Further, changes in the geographic mix of revenues or in the estimated level of annual pre-tax income can cause the overall effective income tax rate to vary from period to period. We also receive periodic assessments from taxing authorities challenging our positions that must be taken into consideration in determining our tax reserves. Resolving these assessments, which may or may not result in additional taxes due, may also require an extended period of time. We believe that our tax positions comply with applicable tax law and that we adequately account for any known tax contingencies. We believe the estimates and assumptions used to support our evaluation of tax benefit realization are reasonable. However, final determination of prior-year tax liabilities, either by settlement with tax authorities or expiration of statutes of limitations, could be materially different than estimates reflected in assets and liabilities and historical income tax provisions. The outcome of these final determinations could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period that a determination is made. Related Party Transactions We are a party to certain historical related party agreements as discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report. Factors Affecting Comparability Our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report that present our financial condition and operating results reflect the following significant transactions: We have engaged in share repurchase programs throughout all periods presented. In 2013, we repurchased a total of 10.7 million shares for $475.9 million ; in 2012, we repurchased a total of 14.0 million shares for $451.4 million ; in 2011, we repurchased 15.0 million shares for $399.2 million . As a result of the above transactions, earnings per share in the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements may not be directly comparable. 30 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations (in millions, except per share amounts) 2013 2012 2011 Processing and services revenues $ 6,070.7 $ 5,807.6 $ 5,625.6 Cost of revenues 4,085.6 3,946.9 3,919.1 Gross profit 1,985.1 1,860.7 1,706.5 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 920.7 781.5 647.9 Impairment charges 9.1 Operating income 1,064.4 1,079.2 1,049.5 Other income (expense): Interest income 10.4 8.6 6.0 Interest expense (198.6 ) (231.3 ) (264.8 ) Other income (expense), net (51.2 ) (25.3 ) (63.7 ) Total other income (expense) (239.4 ) (248.0 ) (322.5 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 825.0 831.2 727.0 Provision for income taxes 309.2 270.9 232.4 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 515.8 560.3 494.6 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1.9 (79.2 ) (13.5 ) Net earnings 517.7 481.1 481.1 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (24.6 ) (19.9 ) (11.5 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 493.1 $ 461.2 $ 469.6 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.70 $ 1.85 $ 1.61 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.04 ) Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders * $ 1.70 $ 1.58 $ 1.56 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 289.7 291.8 300.6 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 1.67 $ 1.82 $ 1.57 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders 0.01 (0.27 ) (0.04 ) Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders * $ 1.68 $ 1.55 $ 1.53 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 294.2 297.5 307.0 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 491.2 $ 540.4 $ 483.1 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1.9 (79.2 ) (13.5 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 493.1 $ 461.2 $ 469.6 * Amounts may not sum due to rounding. Processing and Services Revenues Processing and services revenues totaled $6,070.7 million , $5,807.6 million and $5,625.6 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in revenue during 2013 of $263.1 million , or 4.5% , as compared to 2012 , is primarily attributable to transaction growth and demand for professional and consulting services, higher termination fees, incremental revenues from 2013 and 2012 acquisitions of $55.7 million and increased processing volumes. The 2013 period included $49.6 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar as compared to 2012 . The increase in revenue during 2012 of $182.0 million , or 3.2% , as compared to 2011 , is primarily attributable to increased processing volumes, transaction growth and demand for professional and consulting services, plus incremental revenues from 2012 acquisitions of $26.2 million. Total revenue growth in 2013 and 2012 was partially offset by customer losses and lower retail check activity. The 31 Table of Contents 2012 period included $100.8 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar as compared to 2011 . Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues totaled $4,085.6 million , $3,946.9 million and $3,919.1 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $1,985.1 million , $1,860.7 million and $1,706.5 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues (gross margin) was 32.7% , 32.0% and 30.3% in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in gross profit during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily resulted from the revenue variances discussed above. The increase in gross margin for 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily reflects the impact of a more favorable revenue mix, as higher margin processing revenue and termination fees drove margin expansion that was partially offset by increases in lower margin consulting revenue and $16.1 million of the Capco acquisition related adjustments described in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The increase in gross margin during 2012 as compared to 2011 is due to increased operating leverage and cost management initiatives. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $920.7 million , $781.5 million and $647.9 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The 2013 increase of $139.2 million as compared to 2012 was primarily due to charges of $131.1 million for the Capco acquisition related adjustments described in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2013 period also included higher sales and marketing expense, an increase in health-care benefit expense and increased investment in security and risk management. The 2012 increase of $133.6 million as compared to 2011 was primarily due to increased compensation costs and costs to enhance administrative support of operational functions, including information security and risk and compliance. The 2012 compensation costs included $43.2 million in payments and accelerated vesting of certain stock option and restricted stock grants triggered by changes in responsibility or separation from the Company of certain executives. The 2011 period benefited from a $22.3 million reduction in the contingent consideration liability related to the Capco acquisition, but included a $13.0 million loss related to unauthorized activities on the Sunrise prepaid card platform. Impairment Charges Impairment charges totaling $9.1 million were recorded in 2011 and related to a reduction in the carrying value of the Capco trademark in North America. Operating Income Operating income totaled $1,064.4 million , $1,079.2 million and $1,049.5 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 17.5% , 18.6% and 18.7% for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The annual changes in operating income and operating margin resulted from the revenue and cost variances addressed above. Total Other Income (Expense) Total other income (expense) was $(239.4) million , $(248.0) million and $(322.5) million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The primary component of total other income (expense) is interest expense which totaled $(198.6) million, $(231.3) million and $(264.8) million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decrease of $32.7 million in interest expense in 2013 as compared to 2012 resulted from lower borrowing rates as the result of debt refinancing. In addition to interest expense, the 2013 period also includes: (a) charges of $(16.1) million for the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt issuance costs and transaction expenses related to refinancing activities; (b) a net charge of $(45.3) million representing the $51.6 million premium incurred for the early redemption of certain debt offset by the premium reflected in the carrying value of that debt; and (c) a $9.2 million gain resulting from the purchase of the remaining shares of mFoundry, representing the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the minority-interest investment previously held. The decrease of $33.5 million in interest expense in 2012 as compared to 2011 resulted from lower borrowing rates combined with a reduction in total debt outstanding. Apart from interest expense, 2012 included $(18.4) million in costs related to the write-off of certain previously capitalized debt issuance costs resulting from the early pay down of certain debt and related refinancing activities. In comparison, 2011 included $(38.8) million of debt refinancing expenses, including $(24.7) million of previously capitalized debt issuance costs, and a $(34.0) million other-than-temporary impairment of available-for-sale securities acquired in conjunction with the acquisition of Metavante. 32 Table of Contents Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $309.2 million , $270.9 million and $232.4 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. This resulted in an effective tax rate on continuing operations of 37.5% , 32.6% and 32.0% for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The Capco contingent consideration that was recorded in 2013 is not deductible for tax purposes and, therefore, had an unfavorable impact on the 2013 effective tax rate, which otherwise would have been comparable to 2012 . The tax rates were comparable during the 2012 and 2011 periods. Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations During 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , certain operations are classified as discontinued, as discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Reporting for discontinued operations classifies revenues and expenses as one line item, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The table below outlines the components of discontinued operations for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , net of tax (in millions): 2013 2012 2011 ClearPar $ 16.7 $ $ Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business 0.1 (47.8 ) 10.7 Participacoes operations (14.9 ) (31.4 ) (24.2 ) Total discontinued operations $ 1.9 $ (79.2 ) $ (13.5 ) On January 1, 2010, FIS sold certain assets and liabilities constituting our ClearPar automated syndicated loan trade settlement business. Terms of the sale included an initial cash payment of $71.5 million at closing, with the potential for an additional contingent earn-out payment calculated as a function of the business' 2012 operating results. In May 2013, we recorded in discontinued operations a gain of $26.8 million ( $16.7 million , net of tax) upon final determination and receipt of the earn-out payment. The Healthcare Business that was divested in the first quarter of 2012, had no revenue in 2013 and revenues of $80.5 million and $120.1 million for 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The following table illustrates the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , for the Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business (in millions). Years ended December 31, 2013 2012 2011 Pre-tax income from operations $ 0.2 $ 13.8 $ 17.3 Pre-tax gain on sale 22.0 Earnings before tax 0.2 35.8 17.3 Tax expense 0.1 83.6 6.6 Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business included in discontinued operations $ 0.1 $ (47.8 ) $ 10.7 Participacoes had no revenue in 2013 and 2012 and revenues of $11.7 million for 2011 . Participacoes had expenses of $23.1 million , $47.5 million and $48.3 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Participacoes' processing volume was transitioned to other vendors or back to its customers during the second quarter of 2011. As a result of the dismissal of employees related to the shut-down activities completed in 2011, the 2013 , 2012 and 2011 periods included charges of $15.7 million , $39.1 million and $34.6 million , respectively, to settle claims or increase our provision for potential labor claims. The shut-down activities involved the transfer and termination of approximately 2,600 employees. As of December 31, 2013 , there are approximately 1,080 active labor claims. Former employees generally had up to two years from the date of termination to file labor claims. Consequently, we have continued exposure on these active claims, which were not transferred with other assets and liabilities in the disposal. Any changes in the estimated liability related to these labor claims will be recorded as discontinued operations. Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest predominantly relates to the joint venture in Brazil (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements) and totaled $(24.6) million , $(19.9) million and $(11.5) million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. 33 Table of Contents Earnings from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax, Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $491.2 million , $540.4 million and $483.1 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively, or $1.67 , $1.82 and $1.57 per diluted share, respectively, due to the factors described above coupled with the impact of our share repurchase initiatives. Segment Results of Operations Financial Solutions Group 2013 2012 2011 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 2,344.4 $ 2,246.4 $ 2,076.8 Operating income $ 781.8 $ 716.2 $ 680.3 Operating margin 33.3 % 31.9 % 32.8 % Revenues for FSG totaled $2,344.4 million , $2,246.4 million and $2,076.8 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The overall segment increase of $98.0 million , or 4.4% , for 2013 as compared to 2012 was attributable to incremental revenues from 2013 and 2012 acquisitions of $47.0 million, growth in consulting services, mobile and Internet banking solutions, outsourced services and higher termination fees. Services revenue continues to grow in core banking systems, eBanking, mobile banking and outsourced services. The overall growth was partially offset by customer losses. The overall segment increase of $169.6 million , or 8.2% , for 2012 as compared to 2011 was driven by growth in professional services, back office processing and outsourced IT revenues, increased processing revenues and incremental revenues from 2012 acquisitions of $26.2 million. Increased processing revenue was driven by core processing account volume growth, growth and adoption of eBanking and mobile banking products, as well as risk, fraud and compliance transactions. This processing revenue growth was generated from existing customer growth and newly converted competitive wins. Operating income for FSG totaled $781.8 million , $716.2 million and $680.3 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Operating margin was 33.3% , 31.9% and 32.8% for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in operating income during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily resulted from the revenue variances discussed above. The increase in operating margin during 2013 as compared to 2012 were driven primarily by higher termination fees, license fees and operating leverage on revenue growth. The increase in operating income during 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily resulted from the revenue variances discussed above. The decrease in operating margin during 2012 as compared to 2011 reflects a decrease in higher margin license revenues in 2012 and increased spending related to information security and infrastructure initiatives. Payment Solutions Group 2013 2012 2011 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 2,454.9 $ 2,380.6 $ 2,372.1 Operating income $ 958.4 $ 881.2 $ 822.7 Operating margin 39.0 % 37.0 % 34.7 % Revenues for PSG totaled $2,454.9 million , $2,380.6 million and $2,372.1 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The 2013 increase was principally due to growth in image and output solutions, higher termination fees, growth in card loyalty programs, network solutions and bill payment services. The 2012 period included growth in electronic payment services, offset by lower item processing, retail check activity and loyalty program revenue. Revenue growth during 2012 was also negatively impacted by the June 2012 deconversion of a large debit card processing client. Operating income for PSG totaled $958.4 million , $881.2 million and $822.7 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Operating margin was 39.0% , 37.0% and 34.7% for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in operating income during 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily resulted from the revenue variances discussed above. The increase in operating margin for 2013 as compared to 2012 primarily reflects the impact of a more favorable revenue mix and operating leverage related to the revenue growth noted above. The increases in operating income and operating margin during 2012 primarily reflect operating leverage related to the revenue growth in electronic payment services and the impact of disciplined cost management. In addition, the 2011 period included $13.6 million of integration and severance costs. 34 Table of Contents International Solutions Group 2013 2012 2011 (In millions) Processing and services revenues $ 1,273.9 $ 1,180.5 $ 1,177.6 Operating income $ 197.8 $ 202.2 $ 187.6 Operating margin 15.5 % 17.1 % 15.9 % Revenues for ISG totaled $1,273.9 million , $1,180.5 million and $1,177.6 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The 2013 period included $46.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar. Excluding the unfavorable foreign currency impact, revenues for 2013 increased primarily from higher card transaction volumes in Brazil, growth within our European consulting businesses and continued growth in Asia, Latin America and Europe as a result of the addition of new, large-scale outsourcing arrangements and continued growth in the India ATM management business. The 2012 period included $99.7 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar. Excluding the unfavorable foreign currency impact, revenues for 2012 increased primarily from higher card transaction volumes in Brazil, growth within our European consulting businesses and our expanded presence across Asia including growth in the India ATM management business. Operating income for ISG totaled $197.8 million , $202.2 million and $187.6 million for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. Operating margin was 15.5% , 17.1% and 15.9% for 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The 2013 period included $22.0 million of the charge to increase the Capco acquisition related liabilities discussed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2013 period also included $9.1 million for severance and other charges related to cost management initiatives in certain international markets. Excluding the aforementioned charges, operating income for 2013 increased primarily from the revenue growth noted above and the operating margin benefited from increased scale and improved operating efficiencies across a number of geographies. The increase in operating income in 2012 as compared to 2011 primarily resulted from the revenue growth noted above, combined with increased scale and improved operating efficiencies across a number of geographies but primarily in Brazil. Increased operating leverage and other operating efficiencies generated improved margins in 2012 . Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other expenses were $873.6 million , $720.4 million and $641.1 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The overall Corporate and Other increase of $153.2 million for 2013 as compared to 2012 was primarily due to charges of $129.1 million for the Capco contingent consideration adjustments described in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2013 period also included higher sales and marketing expense, an increase in health-care benefit expense and increased investment in security and risk management. The overall Corporate and Other increase of $79.3 million for 2012 as compared to 2011 was primarily due to increased compensation costs, including stock-based compensation, and benefits, and costs to enhance administrative support of operational functions, including information security and risk and compliance. The compensation charges include $43.2 million related to payments and the accelerated vesting of certain stock option and restricted stock grants triggered by changes in responsibility or separation from the Company of certain executives. The 2011 period included the $13.0 million loss related to unauthorized activities on the Sunrise prepaid card platform noted under Selling, General and Administrative Expenses in the Consolidated Results of Operations section above, $9.5 million in merger, integration and service costs and a $13.2 million net benefit from adjustments from the Capco acquisition. The latter was comprised of a reduction in the contingent consideration liability of $22.3 million , partially offset by a $9.1 million impairment of the North American trademark. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt service, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our cash requirements also include payments for Capco's contingent consideration earn-out and for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil (see Notes 6 and 3, respectively, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Our principal sources 35 Table of Contents of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Loan described in Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2013 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $547.5 million and debt of $4,468.6 million , including the current portion. Of the $547.5 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $368.9 million is held by our foreign entities and would generally be subject to U.S. income taxation upon repatriation to the U.S. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, which we have increased substantially over recent years, from $0.05 to $0.20 per share per quarter in 2012 and then to $0.22 per share per quarter in 2013. On January 29, 2014, the Board of Directors approved an additional increase to $0.24 per share per quarter beginning with the first quarter of 2014. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.24 per common share is payable on March 31, 2014 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 17, 2014. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $1,060.3 million , $1,046.7 million and $1,171.5 million in 2013 , 2012 and 2011 respectively. Cash flows from operations increased $13.6 million in 2013 and decreased $124.8 million in 2012 . The 2013 increase in cash flows from operations is primarily due to higher net earnings, the timing of merchant and card transaction settlement activity and other changes in working capital, partially offset by a $51.6 million bond premium payment resulting from the early pay down of our 2017 senior notes in the first half of 2013 and by the $42.0 million payment associated with the Capco acquisition liabilities. The decrease in 2012 was primarily due to the payment of $105.4 million of income taxes related to the sale of our Healthcare Business and fluctuations in the timing of merchant and card transaction settlement activity offset by other changes in working capital. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $336.2 million , $296.1 million and $300.3 million in capital expenditures during 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. We expect to invest approximately 5.5-6% of 2014 revenue in capital expenditures. We used $150.5 million, $63.6 million and $20.2 million of cash during 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, for acquisitions and other equity investments. See Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the more significant items. Cash provided by net proceeds from sale of assets in 2012 relates principally to the sale of the Healthcare Benefit Solutions Business discussed in Note 3. Financing For information regarding the Company's long-term debt and financing activity, see Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Contractual Obligations FIS long-term contractual obligations generally include its long-term debt, interest on long-term debt, lease payments on certain of its property and equipment and payments for data processing and maintenance. For more descriptive information regarding the Company's long-term debt, see Note 13 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table summarizes FIS significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2013 (in millions): 36 Table of Contents Less than 1-3 3-5 More than Total 1 Year Years Years 5 Years Long-term debt $ 4,476.9 $ 128.8 $ 206.6 $ 1,941.5 $ 2,200.0 Interest(1) 1,020.2 159.3 303.6 234.6 322.7 Operating leases 242.3 61.1 95.9 45.9 39.4 Data processing and maintenance 191.6 88.3 52.5 29.8 21.0 Other contractual obligations (2) 217.2 74.9 117.1 9.3 15.9 Total $ 6,148.2 $ 512.4 $ 775.7 $ 2,261.1 $ 2,599.0 (1) These calculations assume that: (a) applicable margins remain constant; (b) all variable rate debt is priced at the one-month LIBOR rate in effect as of December 31, 2013 ; (c) no new hedging transactions are effected; (d) only mandatory debt repayments are made; and (e) no refinancing occurs at debt maturity. (2) Amount includes the estimated payment for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil (see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), amounts due to the Brazilian venture partner and Capco contingent consideration payments (see Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). FIS believes that its existing cash balances, cash flows from operations and borrowing programs will provide adequate sources of liquidity and capital resources to meet FIS expected liquidity needs for the operations of its business and expected capital spending for the next 12 months. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.