Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1: Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance of the Company, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, expected dividends and share repurchases, the Companys sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include the following, without limitation: the risk that the Worldpay transaction will not provide the expected benefits, or that we will not be able to achieve the cost or revenue synergies anticipated; the risk that the integration of FIS and Worldpay will be more difficult, time-consuming or expensive than anticipated; the risk of customer loss or other business disruption in connection with the Worldpay transaction, or of the loss of key employees; the fact that unforeseen liabilities of FIS or Worldpay may exist; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; 29 Table of Contents the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; the failure to meet financial goals to grow the business in Brazil after the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; the risks of reduction in revenue from the loss of existing and/or potential customers in Brazil after the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or card schemes or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed in this document under Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, and in the Risk Factors and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018, in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for merchants, banks and capital markets firms globally. Our 55,000 people are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests by applying our scale, deep expertise and data-driven insights. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and deliver superior experiences for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. We have grown organically, as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenue by customer, geography and service offering. We evaluate possible acquisitions that might contribute to our growth or performance on an ongoing basis. On July 31, 2019, FIS completed the previously announced acquisition of Worldpay. See Note 3 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for additional discussion. Through its acquisition of Worldpay, FIS is now a global leader in financial technology, solutions and services for merchants, as well as banks and capital markets. The Worldpay acquisition brings an integrated technology platform with a comprehensive suite of products and services serving merchants and financial institutions. In 2018, Worldpay processed over 40 billion transactions, supporting more than 300 payment types across 146 countries and 126 currencies. Through the Worldpay transaction, FIS has enhanced global payment capabilities, robust risk and fraud solutions and advanced data analytics. As a result of the Companys acquisition of Worldpay, the Company reorganized its reportable segments and recast all prior-period segment information presented to align with the new reportable segments. The new segments are Merchant Solutions (Merchant), Banking Solutions (Banking), and Capital Market Solutions (Capital Markets), which are organized based on the markets and clients served aligned with the solutions they provide, as well as the Corporate and Other segment. A description of these segments is included in Note 13 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, payment transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A considerable portion of our recurring revenue is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer, commercial and capital markets activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable. 30 Table of Contents We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. Over the last three years, we have moved approximately 50% of our server compute to our FIS cloud located in our strategic data centers, and our goal is to increase that percentage to 65% by the end of 2019 and approximately 80% by the end of 2021. This allows us to further enhance security for our clients data and increases the flexibility and speed with which we can provide services and solutions to our clients, eventually at lesser cost. Concurrently, we have continued to consolidate our data centers, closing 10 additional data centers in 2018. Our consolidation has generated a savings for the Company as of year-end 2018 exceeding $100 million in run rate annual expense reduction since the programs inception in mid-2016. We plan to close and consolidate approximately 20 more data centers by 2021, which should result in additional run rate annual expense reduction of approximately $150 million. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions and services in order to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, international providers, and disruptive technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems, design and development of next generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We have increased our investments in these areas in each of the last three years. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience will extend to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, providing money movement services, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One will be integrated into and will extend the core banking platforms offered by FIS and will also be offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. Our acquisition of Worldpay will help position us to capitalize on this demand. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. In certain of the international markets in which we do business, we continue to experience growth on a constant currency basis. Demand for our solutions may also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aiming to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the United Kingdom, Germany, Brazil, Australia, India and Canada. For the full year of 2019, we anticipate an approximate $78 million adverse 31 Table of Contents impact to revenue due to foreign currency translation, although the actual amount of impact is uncertain due to the many factors that affect exchange rates. As a result of the Worldpay acquisition, FIS is now a global leader in the payments industry, with differentiated solutions throughout the payments market, including capabilities in global eCommerce, U.S. integrated payments, and enterprise payments and data security solutions in business-to-business (B2B) payments. These solutions bring together advanced payments technologies at each stage of the transaction life cycle. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new products and services, evolving new business models and being affected by new market entrants and an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking services to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present (CNP) payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point-of-sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients evolving needs. In order to facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers, internet, retail and social media companies, could create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. On December 31, 2018, FIS closed the transaction we previously announced to unwind the Brazilian Venture with Banco Bradesco. Under this agreement, the Brazilian Venture spun-off certain assets of the business that also provide services to non-Bradesco clients to a new wholly-owned FIS subsidiary. This subsidiary entered into a long-term commercial agreement to provide current and new services to Banco Bradesco effective January 1, 2019 that include software licensing, maintenance, application management, card portfolio migration, business process outsourcing, fraud management and professional services. As a result of the transaction, Banco Bradesco owns 100% of the entity that previously housed the Brazilian Venture and its remaining assets that relate to card processing for Banco Bradesco, which Banco Bradesco will perform internally. The transaction is expected to result in an annualized reduction in FIS reported revenue of approximately $225 million. In addition, it resulted in impairment charges of $95 million in the third quarter of 2018. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . 32 Table of Contents Transactions with Related Parties See Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended September 30, Nine months ended September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Revenue $ 2,822 $ 2,084 $ 6,991 $ 6,256 Cost of revenue 1,838 1,364 4,623 4,192 Gross profit 984 720 2,368 2,064 Selling, general and administrative expenses 757 283 1,435 980 Asset impairments 87 95 87 95 Operating income 140 342 846 989 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (95 ) (80 ) (242 ) (225 ) Other income (expense), net 164 (58 ) (8 ) (60 ) Total other income (expense), net 69 (138 ) (250 ) (285 ) Earnings before income taxes and equity method investment earnings (loss) 209 204 596 704 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 48 37 119 122 Equity method investment earnings (loss) (5 ) (4 ) (18 ) (11 ) Net earnings 156 163 459 571 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (2 ) (9 ) (3 ) (23 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 154 $ 154 $ 456 $ 548 Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.30 $ 0.47 $ 1.18 $ 1.67 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 516 328 388 329 Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.29 $ 0.47 $ 1.15 $ 1.65 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 524 331 396 333 Comparisons of three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Revenue increased $738 million , or 35.4% , during the three-month period, primarily due to (1) incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition; (2) growth in Banking driven by license and professional services; and (3) growth in Capital Markets driven by processing and services. These increases were offset by (1) the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018; (3) the reduction in revenue from the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware during the fourth quarter of 2018; and (4) unfavorable foreign currency impact of $19 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro. Revenue increased $735 million , or 11.7% , during the nine-month period, primarily due to (1) incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition; these increases were partially offset by (1) the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture; (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018; (3) the reduction in revenue from the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware during the fourth quarter of 2018; and (4) 33 Table of Contents unfavorable foreign currency impact of $63 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling, Euro and Brazilian Real. See Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue and Gross Profit Cost of revenue increased $474 million or 34.8% for the three-month period of 2019 as compared to 2018 resulting in a gross profit increase of $264 million or 36.7% . Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 34.9% and 34.5% during the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The increase in gross profit during the 2019 period as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The increase in gross profit percentage during the 2019 period as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense. Cost of revenue increased $431 million or 10.3% for the nine-month period of 2019 as compared to 2018 resulting in a gross profit increase of $304 million or 14.7% . Gross profit as a percentage of revenue was 33.9% and 33.0% during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The increase in gross profit during the 2019 period as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The increase in gross profit percentage during the 2019 period as compared to 2018 primarily resulted from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition, partially offset by higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $474 million or 167.5% for the three-month period of 2019 as compared to 2018 . The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by (1) incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and (2) higher acquisition, integration and other costs. These increases were partially offset by (1) the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware during the fourth quarter of 2018 and (2) the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $455 million or 46.4% for the nine-month period of 2019 as compared to 2018 . The year-over-year increase was primarily driven by (1) incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses; (2) higher acquisition, integration and other costs; and (3) increased health care and other benefit plan expenses. These increases were partially offset by (1) the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware during the fourth quarter of 2018 and (2) the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018. Asset Impairments During the three months ended September 30, 2019, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $87 million, primarily related to certain computer software resulting from the Company's net realizable value analysis. During September 2018, as a result of entering into an agreement to unwind the Brazilian Venture that the Company operated with Banco Bradesco, the Company recorded pre-tax asset impairments totaling $95 million, including $42 million for the Brazilian Venture contract intangible asset, $25 million for goodwill, and $28 million for the assets being held for sale that were transferred to Banco Bradesco upon closing of the agreement (see Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)). Operating Income Operating income decreased $202 million or 59.1% , for the three-month period and $143 million or 14.5% for the nine-month period of 2019 as compared to 2018 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 5.0% and 16.4% for the three-month periods and 12.1% and 15.8% for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The changes in operating income for the three-month and nine-month periods of 2019 as compared to 2018 and the change in operating margin during the 2019 periods as compared to 2018 resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense is typically the primary component of total other income (expense); however, during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 , other income (expense) was also a significant component. 34 Table of Contents The increase of $15 million in interest expense, net during the three-month period ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the 2018 period is primarily due to higher outstanding debt, partially offset by lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt and an increase in interest income on the proceeds from the Worldpay acquisition-related debt issuances prior to closing. The increase of $17 million in interest expense, net during the nine-month period ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the 2018 period is primarily due to higher outstanding debt, partially offset by lower weighted-average interest rate on the outstanding debt and increased interest income on the proceeds from the Worldpay acquisition-related debt issuances prior to closing. Other income (expense), net increased $222 million and $52 million during the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 as compared to the 2018 periods, respectively. Other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2019 includes the non-cash foreign currency impact of non-hedged Euro- and Pound Sterling-denominated notes issued to finance the Worldpay acquisition, during the period from the date of issue of the notes to the date of the acquistition. Other income (expense), net for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2018 includes a pre-tax loss of $54 million on the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Income tax expense totaled $48 million and $37 million during the three-month periods and $119 million and $122 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , resulting in effective tax rates of 23.0% and 18.1% for the three-month periods and 20.0% and 17.3% for the nine-month periods, respectively. The 2019 effective tax rates includes less stock compensation benefit than in 2018. Equity Method Investment Earnings (Loss) FIS holds a 38% ownership stake in Cardinal, as further described in Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As a result, we recorded equity method investment losses of $5 million and $4 million during the three-month periods and $18 million and $11 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Net (Earnings) Loss Attributable to Noncontrolling Interest Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest predominantly related to the joint venture in Brazil that was unwound on December 31, 2018 and totaled $(2) million and $(9) million for the three months and $(3) million and $(23) million during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Net Earnings Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $154 million and $154 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.29 and $0.47 for the three-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively, and $456 million and $548 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $1.15 and $1.65 for the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. These results reflect the variances described above. Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as EBITDA (defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization) plus certain non-operating items. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting . The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments and acquisition, integration and certain other costs. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 13 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) included in Part I of this Quarterly Report. As a result of the Companys acquisition of Worldpay, the Company reorganized its reportable segments and recast all prior-period segment information presented to align with the new reportable segments. The new segments are Merchant Solutions, Banking Solutions, and Capital Market Solutions, which are organized based on the markets and clients served 35 Table of Contents aligned with the solutions they provide, as well as the Corporate and Other segment. A description of these segments is included in Note 13 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Revenue by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Merchant Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 720 $ 50 $ 896 $ 205 Adjusted EBITDA $ 371 $ 10 $ 410 $ 40 Three months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $670 million , due to incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $680 million, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact of $9 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $361 million , and adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 51.5% primarily resulting from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Nine months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $691 million , due to incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition totaling $680 million and heritage FIS merchant solutions growth of $24 million, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact of $11 million primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $370 million , and adjusted EBITDA margin increased to 45.8% primarily resulting from higher margin revenue from the Worldpay acquisition. Banking Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 1,491 $ 1,433 $ 4,317 $ 4,238 Adjusted EBITDA $ 641 $ 577 $ 1,772 $ 1,646 Three months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $58 million , or 4.0% , due to (1) incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 4.6%; (2) license and professional services growth contributing 2.9%, driven in part by the wealth and retirement business; and (3) the remaining revenue contributed 1.1% to growth due in part to strong network, digital payments and back office volumes as well as growth in card production. These increases were partially offset by (1) the reduction in revenue from the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture contributing (3.6%) and (2) the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware business contributing (0.5%). Banking Solutions had an unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.3%), or approximately $5 million, to growth primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro. Adjusted EBITDA increased $64 million , or 11.1% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 270 basis points to 43.0% primarily resulting from positive revenue mix, the addition of the higher margin Worldpay revenue, and the unwinding of lower margin Bradesco revenue. 36 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $79 million , or 1.9% , due to (1) incremental revenues from the Worldpay acquisition contributing 1.6%; (2) professional services growth contributing 1.0%; (3) license sales contributed 0.5% to growth, driven in part by the wealth and retirement business; and (4) the remaining revenue contributed 2.7% due in part to strong network, digital payments and back office volumes as well as growth in the card production business. These items were partially offset by (1) the unwinding of the Brazilian Venture, offset in part by the new commercial agreement with Banco Bradesco and growth in Latin America payments, contributing (2.7%) and (2) the reduction in revenue from the sale of Reliance Trust Company of Delaware business contributing (0.6%). Banking Solutions had an unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.8%), or approximately $33 million, to growth primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real, British Pound Sterling and Euro. Adjusted EBITDA increased $126 million , or 7.7% , primarily resulting from the revenue variances noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 220 basis points to 41.0% primarily resulting from positive revenue mix, the addition of higher margin Worldpay revenue, and the unwinding of lower margin Bradesco revenue. Capital Market Solutions Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 611 $ 589 $ 1,778 $ 1,770 Adjusted EBITDA $ 280 $ 274 $ 790 $ 761 Three months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $22.0 million , or 3.7% , primarily due to (1) growth in processing and services revenue contributing 3.1% driven in part by the insurance and transfer agency businesses; (2) license and software growth contributing 1.2% driven in part by strong demand in the corporate liquidity business and risk and compliance solutions; and (3) professional services growth contributing 0.3%. These items were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (0.8%) or approximately $5 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $6 million , or 2.2% , due to the revenue impacts mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 70 basis points to 45.8% , due to increased incentive compensation, partially offset by continued cost management. Nine months ended September 30 : Revenue increased $8 million , or 0.5% , primarily due to (1) growth in processing and services revenue contributing 0.7%; (2) license and software growth contributing 0.6%; and (3) professional services growth contributing 0.3%. These items were partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency impact contributing (1.1%) or approximately $19 million, primarily driven by a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling. Adjusted EBITDA increased $29 million , or 3.8% , and adjusted EBITDA margin increased 140 basis points to 44.4% due to continued cost management. Corporate and Other Three months ended Nine months ended September 30, September 30, 2019 2018 2019 2018 (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ $ 12 $ $ 43 Adjusted EBITDA $ (100 ) $ (53 ) $ (258 ) $ (177 ) 37 Table of Contents The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America until it was divested on August 31, 2018. Three months ended September 30 : Revenue decreased $12 million , or 100.0% , due to the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $47 million , or 88.7% , primarily due to incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses. Nine months ended September 30 : Revenue decreased $43 million , or 100.0% , due to the sale of the Certegy Check Services business unit in North America during the third quarter of 2018. Adjusted EBITDA decreased $81 million , or 45.8% , primarily due to incremental Worldpay corporate and infrastructure expenses and increased corporate health care and other benefit plan expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program described in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As of September 30, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $1.3 billion and debt of $20.2 billion , including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $1.3 billion cash and cash equivalents, approximately $475 million is held by our foreign entities. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents at September 30, 2019, represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next 12 months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.35 per common share is payable on December 27, 2019 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on December 13, 2019. On July 20, 2017, our Board of Directors approved a plan authorizing repurchases of up to $4.0 billion of our outstanding common stock in the open market at prevailing market prices or in privately negotiated transactions through December 31, 2020. This share repurchase authorization replaced any existing share repurchase authorization. Approximately $2.3 billion of plan capacity remained available for repurchases as of September 30, 2019 . Management suspended share repurchases as a result of the Worldpay transaction. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $1,741 million and $1,288 million during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization. Cash flows from operations were $453 million higher in the 2019 period primarily due to increased cash flow due to the Worldpay acquisition and timing of working capital, partially offset by transaction-related expenses. 38 Table of Contents Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $544 million and $464 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during the nine-month periods ended September 30, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We used $6,629 million of cash (net of cash acquired, including restricted cash) during the nine months ended September 30, 2019 for the Worldpay acquisitions. See Note 3 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Financing For more information regarding the Companys debt and financing activity see Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations during the first nine months of 2019 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 21, 2019, except as disclosed in Notes 7, 9 and 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements FIS does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) , which requires lessees to recognize leases on the balance sheet and disclose key information about leasing arrangements. Topic 842 was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-01, Land Easement Practical Expedient for Transition to Topic 842 ; ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases ; ASU No. 2018-11, Targeted Improvements ; ASU No. 2018-20, Leases (Topic 842): Narrow-Scope Improvements for Lessors; and ASU No. 2019-1, Leases (Topic 842): Codification Improvements (collectively, the "new standard"). The new standard establishes a right-of-use ("ROU") model that requires a lessee to recognize an ROU asset and lease liability on the balance sheet for all leases with a term longer than 12 months. Leases are classified as finance or operating, with classification affecting the pattern and classification of expense recognition in the income statement. Under the new standard, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The new standard is effective for public business entities on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. A modified retrospective transition approach is required, applying the new standard to all leases existing at the date of initial application. An entity may choose to use either (1) its effective date (the "effective date method") or (2) the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements as its date of initial application. If an entity chooses the second option, the transition requirements for existing leases also apply to leases entered into between the date of initial application and the effective date. The entity must also recast its comparative period financial statements and provide the disclosures required by the new standard for the comparative periods. FIS adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2019 using the effective date method. Consequently, financial information was not updated and the disclosures required under the new standard were not provided for dates and periods before January 1, 2019. The new standard provides several optional practical expedients in transition and for an entitys ongoing accounting. We elected the "package of practical expedients," which permits us not to reassess under the new standard our prior conclusions about lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. We also elected the practical expedient not to separate lease and non-lease components. We did not elect the use-of-hindsight practical expedient nor the short-term lease recognition exemption. The adoption of the new standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease ROU assets and lease liabilities on the Companys Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet of $442 million and $446 million, respectively, on January 1, 2019. The standard did not impact our results of operations or cash flows. The Companys accounting for finance leases, which are immaterial, remained substantially unchanged. 39 Table of Contents On February 14, 2018 the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02 ("ASU 2018-02"), Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects From Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . ASU 2018-02 allows companies to elect whether to reclassify from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings the tax effects of items within accumulated other comprehensive income, referred to as stranded tax effects, resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. FIS adopted ASU 2018-02 on January 1, 2019, and did not elect to reclassify the income tax effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings. As a result, the adoption of this ASU did not have an impact on the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted On June 16, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 ("ASU 2016-13"), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurements on Credit Losses of Financial Instruments . This ASU was subsequently amended by ASU No. 2018-19, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (collectively, "Topic 326"). The primary objectives of Topic 326 are to implement new methodology for calculating credit losses on financial instruments (e.g., trade receivables) based on expected credit losses and to broaden the types of information companies must use when calculating the estimated losses. Under current guidance, the credit losses are calculated based on multiple credit impairment objectives and recognition is delayed until the loss is probable to occur. Under the new guidance, financial assets measured at amortized cost basis must be shown as the net amount expected to be collected. The credit loss allowance is a contra-valuation account. Available-for-sale securities should continue to be recognized in a similar manner to current GAAP; however, the allowance should be presented as an allowance instead of a write-down of the basis of the asset. For public business entities, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2018. We do not plan to early adopt and expect that the new guidance will not have a material impact on our financial statement presentation, financial position, or results of operations. On August 29, 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15 ("ASU 2018-15"), Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract . This ASU clarifies that implementation costs incurred by customers in cloud computing arrangements should be deferred and recognized over the term of the arrangement, if those costs would be capitalized by the customer in a software licensing arrangement under the internal-use software guidance. The provisions in ASU 2018-15 should be applied either retrospectively or prospectively to all implementation costs incurred after the date of adoption. For public business entities, ASU 2018-15 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2018-15 will have on our financial position and results of operations.