ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1: Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other statements made by our management that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements regarding our expectations, hopes, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to, among other things, future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include, without limitation: the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and other synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer or be more costly to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets and currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software (including software updates) for customers or at customer locations may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere in this document, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. 20 Table of Contents Overview FIS is a global leader in financial services technology offering a broad range of solutions in retail and enterprise banking, payments, capital markets, asset and wealth management, risk and compliance, treasury and insurance, as well as providing financial consulting and outsourcing services. With a long history deeply rooted in serving the financial services sector, FIS serves more than 20,000 institutions in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs approximately 55,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing, financial software, capital markets and banking solutions. Through our Capco brand, we deliver a wide range of information technology consulting, advisory and transformational services to financial institutions globally. Providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that drives financial institutions, FIS is a Fortune 500 company and is a member of Standard & Poors 500 Index. We have grown organically as well as through acquisitions, which have contributed critical applications and services that complement or enhance our existing offerings, diversifying our revenues by customer, geography and service offering. The completion of the SunGard acquisition on November 30, 2015 increased our existing portfolio to include solutions that automate a wide range of complex business processes for financial services institutions and corporate and government treasury departments. In 2015, FIS finalized a reorganization and began reporting its financial performance based on three segments: Integrated Financial Solutions (IFS), Global Financial Solutions (GFS) and Corporate and Other. We recast all previous periods to conform to the new segment presentation. Following the November 30, 2015 SunGard acquisition, SunGard was included within the GFS segment as its economic characteristics, international business model, and various other factors largely aligned with those of our GFS segment. As we have further integrated the businesses in 2016, we have reclassified certain SunGard businesses that are oriented more to the retail banking and payments activities of IFS into that segment (corporate liquidity and wealth management). Certain other non-strategic businesses from both SunGard (public sector and education) and legacy FIS (commercial services and check processing) have been reclassified to the Corporate and Other segment, as have SunGard administrative expenses. Prior periods also have been reclassified to conform to the current segment presentation. A description of these segments is included in Note 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Revenues by segment and the adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, consulting and professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, and has been provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A significant portion of these recurring revenues is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of deposit accounts and card transactions, among other variable measures, associated with consumer and commercial activity. Consulting and professional services revenues are typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. In the second half of 2015 and first half of 2016, we experienced the macroeconomic challenges related to the slowdown of the global economy. That trend impacts us predominantly in the amount our clients spend with us for professional services. We expect this trend to continue through the second half of 2016. The SunGard acquisition broadened our solution portfolio, enabling us to expand beyond our traditional banking and payments markets into the institutional and wholesale side of financial institutions as well as other buy-side organizations. It significantly expanded our existing solutions and client base in wealth management, treasury and corporate payments. These solutions are in demand among our regional and community financial institution clients as they look for ways to replace highly regulated fee revenues. The combination also favorably impacts our revenue mix, with a greater concentration of license revenues and higher margin services. Our revenues for the first half of 2016 included a $140 million reduction of revenue as a result of the purchase accounting adjustment to reduce SunGard's deferred revenue to fair value. Similar reductions will be experienced throughout 2016 as the acquired deferred revenue balance runs off. Amortization of intangible assets acquired in the SunGard acquisition increased our cost of revenues by $239 million for the first half of 2016. Amortization charges will continue to be recorded at varying rates through 2025. As we integrate SunGard into our existing operations, we anticipate significant cost savings in administration and technology expenses, with a goal of achieving annual synergy run-rate savings of $200 million by the end of 2017. Certain one-time severance and other costs have been and will be incurred related to delivering these run-rate savings. We are actively migrating a number of our financial institution clients to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and rapidly address increasing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and 21 Table of Contents market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. A realignment of resources in our GFS segment resulted in severance costs of $45 million in the first quarter of 2015. The realignment activities were a combination of optimizing on-shore and off-shore resources as well as the removal of overlapping management resources. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice-banking channels. We are focused on enabling our clients to deliver this experience to their customers through our integrated solutions and services. We continue to develop and invest in these integrated solutions and services to assist clients as they address this market demand. We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe mobile payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Mobile payment volume is growing significantly but does not yet represent a meaningful amount of the payments market. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors and large merchants are investing in and innovating mobile payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of mobile payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which mobile payment technologies or solutions will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well-positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. High profile North American merchant payment card information security breaches have pushed the payment card industry towards Europay, MasterCard and VISA ("EMV") integrated circuit cards as financial institutions, card networks and merchants seek to improve information security and reduce fraud costs. We have invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards so we can guide our clients through this technology transition and grow our card-driven businesses. We believe the trend to migrate to EMV cards will continue and we continue to invest to address market demand. The use of checks continues to decline as a percentage of total payments, which negatively impacts our check warranty and item-processing businesses, and we expect this trend to continue. In 2015 and through the first half of 2016, we observed a modest slowdown in our check volume decline and to date have been able to successfully mitigate the majority of the impacts of this decline through cost and fraud efficiency actions and new market solutions, which remain our continued focus. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial or detrimental to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems licensed from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose market share if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. In 2015, we experienced lower consolidation activity and resulting termination fees compared to 2014 and 2013, and this trend is continuing into 2016. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our international business continued to experience growth across all major regions, including Europe and Asia, on a constant currency basis during the first half of 2016. By comparison with FIS, a greater percentage of SunGard's revenues have been concentrated historically in international markets, which has contributed to this growth trend. Demand for our solutions will also continue to be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aimed to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our European revenue is generated by clients in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. In 2015, we experienced adverse currency impacts in our international 22 Table of Contents businesses as a consequence of a relative strengthening of the U.S. dollar. In 2016, we expect minimal net foreign currency impact on our operating income. Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and involvement, we have developed fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target this growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Transactions with Related Parties See Note 2 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 23 Table of Contents Comparisons of three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Processing and services revenues $ 2,305 $ 1,587 $ 4,486 $ 3,142 Cost of revenues 1,600 1,070 3,153 2,140 Gross profit 705 517 1,333 1,002 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 422 230 866 500 Operating income 283 287 467 502 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (93 ) (36 ) (186 ) (73 ) Other income (expense), net (1 ) 152 (2 ) 150 Total other income (expense), net (94 ) 116 (188 ) 77 Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 189 403 279 579 Provision for income taxes 66 156 97 214 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 123 247 182 365 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 (2 ) 1 (5 ) Net earnings 124 245 183 360 Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (3 ) (5 ) (7 ) (9 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 121 $ 240 $ 176 $ 351 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.37 $ 0.86 $ 0.54 $ 1.26 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.01 ) (0.02 ) Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.37 $ 0.85 $ 0.54 $ 1.25 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 325 281 325 282 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.36 $ 0.85 $ 0.53 $ 1.25 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.01 ) (0.02 ) Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.37 $ 0.84 $ 0.54 $ 1.23 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 329 284 328 286 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 120 $ 242 $ 175 $ 356 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax 1 (2 ) 1 (5 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 121 $ 240 $ 176 $ 351 Amounts in table may not sum due to rounding. Processing and Services Revenues Processing and services revenues totaled $2,305 million and $1,587 million during the three-month periods and $4,486 million and $3,142 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Processing and services revenues for the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 included approximately $23 million and $64 million, respectively of unfavorable foreign currency impact, primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real and the British Pound Sterling. Excluding the unfavorable foreign currency impact, revenue increases for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to 2015 were primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the SunGard 24 Table of Contents acquisition, including growth driven by increased adoption of our global trading, capital markets and buy-side solutions, volume growth in debit payments and card production activities associated with the roll-out of EMV and tokenization across the industry and growth in digital solutions (internet banking and mobile). Our revenues included a $59 million and $140 million reduction of revenue during the three and six months ended June 30, 2016, respectively, as a result of the purchase accounting adjustment to reduce SunGard acquired deferred revenue to fair value. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues totaled $1,600 million and $1,070 million during the three-month periods and $3,153 million and $2,140 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $705 million and $517 million during the respective three-month periods and $1,333 million and $1,002 million during the six-month periods. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 30.6% and 32.6% during the three-month periods and 29.7% and 31.9% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The change in gross profit during the 2016 period as compared to 2015 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The gross profit percentages during the three-months and six-months ended June 30, 2016 as compared to the 2015 periods were negatively impacted by higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense resulting from the SunGard acquisition. This negative impact was partially offset by the addition of higher margin revenues from SunGard as well as on-going operating leverage in key markets outside of North America. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $422 million and $230 million during the three-month periods and $866 million and $500 million during the six-month peiods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The year-over-year increase primarily resulted from incremental expenses from SunGard, including integration and severance. Operating Income Operating income totaled $283 million and $287 million during the three-month periods and $467 million and $502 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 12.3% and 18.1% during the three-month periods and 10.4% and 16.0% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The changes in operating income for the three and six-month periods of 2016 as compared to 2015 resulted from the variances addressed above. The decrease in operating margin resulted primarily from higher acquired intangible asset amortization expense and other incremental integration and severance costs. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net was $(94) million and $116 million during the three-month periods and $(188) million and $77 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Interest expense increased $57 million during the three-month period and $113 million during the six-month period ended June 30, 2016 as compared to 2015 primarily due to higher outstanding debt associated with financing the SunGard acquisition. During the second quarter of 2015, we sold certain assets associated with our gaming industry check warranty business, resulting in proceeds of $238 million and a pre-tax gain of $140 million, which is included in Other income (expense), net. Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $66 million and $156 million during the three-month periods and $97 million and $214 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , resulting in effective tax rates from continuing operations of 35% and 39% for the three month periods and 35% and 37% for the six month periods, respectively. The effective tax rate during the three months and six months ended June 30, 2015 included a $90.1 million write-off of goodwill with no tax basis in connection with the sale of our gaming industry check warranty business. Earnings from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax, Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $120 million and $242 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.36 and $0.85 for the three-month periods and $175 million and $356 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.53 and $1.25 for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. These results reflect the variances described above as well as the increase in shares outstanding from the SunGard acquisition. 25 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA for our segments is presented in conformity with Accounting Standards Codification Topic 280, Segment Reporting. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. Adjusted EBITDA, which is defined as EBITDA (defined as net income (loss) before net interest expense, income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization, including amortization of purchased intangibles), plus certain non-operating items. The non-operating items affecting the segment profit measure generally include acquisition accounting adjustments, acquisition, integration and severance costs, and restructuring expenses. For consolidated reporting purposes, these costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of our adjustments to EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 9 to the condensed consolidated financial statements (unaudited) included in Part I of this Quarterly Report. Integrated Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Processing and services revenues $ 1,162 $ 931 $ 2,283 $ 1,859 Adjusted EBITDA $ 450 $ 369 $ 876 $ 740 Processing and services revenues for IFS totaled $1,162 million and $931 million during the three-months and $2,283 million and $1,859 million during the six-months ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The overall segment increases of $231 million or 24.8% for the three months and $424 million or 22.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the 2015 period were primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the SunGard acquisition, on-going demand for regulatory and compliance solutions, volume growth in debit payments and card production activities associated with the roll-out of EMV and tokenization across the industry and growth in digital solutions (internet banking and mobile). Adjusted EBITDA for IFS totaled $450 million and $369 million during the three-month periods and $876 million and $740 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 38.7% and 39.6% during the three-month periods and 38.4% and 39.8% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increase in adjusted EBITDA primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The decreases in adjusted EBITDA margin during the three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 compared to the 2015 periods primarily resulted from revenue mix, higher incentives and other discrete accrual items. Global Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Processing and services revenues $ 1,048 $ 555 $ 2,038 $ 1,067 Adjusted EBITDA $ 287 $ 117 $ 538 $ 198 Processing and services revenues for GFS totaled $1,048 million and $555 million during the three-month periods and $2,038 million and $1,067 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The three-month and six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 included approximately $21 million and $61 million, respectively, of unfavorable foreign currency impact, primarily resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Brazilian Real and the British Pound Sterling. Excluding the foreign currency impact, revenue increases were primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the SunGard acquisition, including growth driven by increased adoption of our global trading, capital markets and buy-side solutions. Adjusted EBITDA for GFS totaled $287 million and $117 million during the three-month periods and $538 million and $198 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Adjusted EBITDA margin was 27.4% and 21.1% during the three-month periods and 26.4% and 18.6% during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , 26 Table of Contents respectively. The increase in adjusted EBITDA for GFS primarily resulted from the 2015 cost realignment activities as well as the revenue variances noted above. The increase in adjusted EBITDA margin primarily resulted from the addition of higher margin revenues from SunGard as well as on-going operating leverage in key markets outside of North America. Corporate and Other (in millions) Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, 2016 2015 2016 2015 Processing and services revenues $ 95 $ 101 $ 165 $ 216 Adjusted EBITDA $ (41 ) $ (33 ) $ (81 ) $ (60 ) The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from non-strategic businesses, including commercial services, public sector and education, and check processing. Processing and services revenues for Corporate and Other totaled $95 million and $101 million during the three-month periods and $165 million and $216 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The revenue decline for the three and six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to the 2015 periods was primarily attributable to the $59 million and $140 million purchase accounting impact on deferred revenue (all of which was recorded as a contra-revenue item in the Corporate and Other segment), the impact of the divestiture of our check gaming business in the second quarter of 2015 and decline in check processing volumes, partially offset by the additions of the businesses from the SunGard acquisition. Adjusted EBITDA for Corporate and Other totaled $(41) million and $(33) million during the three-month periods and $(81) million and $(60) million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The year-over-year decreases in adjusted EBITDA primarily resulted from the revenue reductions noted above and incremental expenses from the SunGard acquisition. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt payments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Loan described in Note 7 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As of June 30, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $765 million and debt of $11.1 billion , including the current portion, net of capitalized debt issuance costs. Of the $765 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $502 million is held by our foreign entities and would generally be subject to U.S. income taxation upon repatriation to the U.S. The majority of our U.S. cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.26 per common share is payable on September 30, 2016 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 16, 2016. Cash Flows from Operations 27 Table of Contents Cash flows from operations were $820 million and $443 million during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Cash flows from operations were $377 million higher in the 2016 period primarily due to increased cash flow coming from the SunGard acquisition. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $293 million and $219 million in capital expenditures (excluding capital leases) during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2016 and 2015 , respectively. The increased investment reflects the addition of SunGard to our operations. We expect to invest approximately 6.0% of 2016 revenue in capital expenditures. Financing For information regarding the Company's long-term debt and financing activity, see Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). There were no share repurchases during the six months ended June 30, 2016 compared to $300 million in the comparable 2015 period. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations during the first half of 2016 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 26, 2016, except as disclosed in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-05 (ASU 2015-05), Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement. This guidance was designed to help entities evaluate whether fees paid by a customer in a cloud computing arrangement include a software license to internal-use software or whether the arrangement should be accounted for as a service contract. The amendments also supersede paragraph 350-40-25-16, which provided that an entity should analogize to operating lease guidance in accounting for some software licenses (that is, even when an entity obtained a software license, it accounted for the arrangement as executory in nature or as a prepaid vs. a capital asset). As a result of the amendments, all software licenses in the scope of Subtopic 350-40 will be accounted for in the same manner, consistent with the accounting for other licenses of intangible assets. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016, and we have elected to apply it prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified after the effective date. Through June 30, 2016, the new guidance has not had a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. However, we do expect the amendment superseding the analogy to lease accounting to result in higher capitalization of fees paid to vendors or commitments under vendor arrangements, and as a result, higher amortization expense versus the classification as subscription service expense under the previous guidance. Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 amends substantially all authoritative literature for revenue recognition, including industry-specific requirements, and converges the guidance under this topic with that of the International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows from contracts with customers. Other provisions include ensuring the time value of money is considered in the transaction price and allowing estimates of variable consideration to be recognized before contingencies are resolved in certain circumstances. The effective date to the amendments was postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Entities can transition to the standard either with retrospective application to the earlier years presented in their financial 28 Table of Contents statements or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will have on our financial position and results of operations as well as the transition method we expect to employ. On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02). Under the new guidance, lessees will be required to recognize the following for all leases (with the exception of leases with a term of twelve months or less) at the commencement date: (a) a lease liability, which is a lessee's obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and (b) a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessees right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. Under the new guidance, lessor accounting is largely unchanged. The pronouncement requires a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The modified retrospective approach would not require any transition accounting for leases that expire before the earliest comparative period presented. A full retrospective transition approach is not permitted. Public business entities should apply the amendments in ASU 2016-02 for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early application is permitted. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on our financial position and results of operations. On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-09 (ASU 2016-09), Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The amendments are intended to simplify and improve the accounting for employee share-based payments. Under the new guidance, all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies over/under compensation expense recognized will be reflected in the income statement as they occur. This will replace the current guidance, which requires tax benefits that exceed compensation expense (windfalls) to be recognized in equity. It will also eliminate the need to maintain a windfall pool, and will remove the requirement to delay recognizing a windfall until it reduces current taxes payable. The new guidance will also change the cash flow presentation of excess tax benefits, classifying them as operating inflows, consistent with other cash flows related to income taxes. Under current guidance, windfalls are classified as financing activities. These changes may result in more volatile net earnings. Similarly, effective tax rates will be subject to more variability since the new guidance reflects all tax benefit excesses and deficiencies in tax expense. Under current practice, stock compensation generally does not impact the effective tax rate since any difference between compensation expense and the ultimate tax deduction is reflected in additional paid in capital. Also under the new guidance, excess tax benefits will no longer be included in assumed proceeds from applying the treasury stock method when computing diluted earnings per share since they will no longer be recognized in additional paid in capital. Consequently, the reduction to common stock equivalents for assumed purchases from proceeds will be lower and the impact of common stock equivalents will be more dilutive. For public companies, the amendments are effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those annual periods. Early adoption is permitted for any organization in any interim or annual period. We expect to adopt the ASU in January 2017. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we recorded $29 million, $40 million and $40 million, respectively, to consolidated equity as excess tax benefits from our stock plans.