Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 20 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services clients with a broad array of buy- and sell-side solutions. Clients in this segment operate in more than 100 countries and include asset managers, buy- and sell-side securities brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, and other commercial organizations. Our buy- and sell-side solutions include a variety of mission-critical applications for recordkeeping, data and analytics, trading, financing and risk management. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions in various ways including licensing and managing technology "in-house," using consulting and third-party service providers, as well as procuring fully outsourced end-to-end solutions. Our long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to make, investments in modern platforms, advanced technologies, open APIs, machine learning and artificial intelligence, and regulatory technology to support our Capital Markets clients. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses that we plan to wind down or sell. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs, such as acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. In the Corporate and Other segment, the Company recorded acquisition, integration and other costs comprised of the following (in millions): Three months ended Six months ended June 30, June 30, 2023 2022 2023 2022 Acquisition and integration $ 9 $ 30 $ 16 $ 75 Enterprise transformation, including Future Forward and platform modernization 78 80 153 160 Severance and other termination expenses, including those associated with enterprise cost control initiatives and changes in senior management 23 36 51 47 Planned separation of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business 20 31 Stock-based compensation, primarily from certain performance-based awards 6 41 6 65 Other, including divestiture-related expenses and enterprise cost control and other initiatives 4 34 8 63 Total acquisition, integration and other costs $ 140 $ 221 $ 265 $ 410 Amounts in table may not sum due to rounding. Other costs in Corporate and Other also included incremental amortization expense associated with shortened estimated useful lives and accelerated amortization methods for certain software and deferred contract cost assets resulting from the Company's platform modernization totaling $13 million and $42 million for the three months and $32 million and $94 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which is recorded in depreciation and amortization in the statement of operations. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, the Company recorded a $6.8 billion impairment of goodwill related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit due to its estimated fair value being less than its carrying value. Additionally, the Company recorded $29 million of asset impairments primarily related to the impairment of a non-strategic business during the three and six months ended June 30, 2022 and $58 million of impairments primarily related to real estate-related assets resulting from office space reductions during the six months ended June 30, 2022. 21 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a measure of segment profit or loss that is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include the purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Summarized financial information for the Company's segments is shown in the following tables. The Company does not evaluate performance or allocate resources based on segment asset data; therefore, such information is not presented. For the three months ended June 30, 2023 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 1,702 $ 1,312 $ 672 $ 60 $ 3,746 Operating expenses (1,132) (776) (423) (7,731) (10,062) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 154 97 88 547 886 Acquisition, integration and other costs 140 140 Asset impairments 6,841 6,841 Adjusted EBITDA $ 724 $ 633 $ 337 $ (143) $ 1,551 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,551 Depreciation and amortization (338) Purchase accounting amortization (548) Acquisition, integration and other costs (140) Asset impairments (6,841) Interest expense, net (153) Other income (expense), net (53) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (72) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (2) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ (6,596) Capital expenditures (1) $ 97 $ 103 $ 64 $ 23 $ 287 (1) Capital expenditures include $20 million in other financing obligations for certain hardware. 22 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) For the three months ended June 30, 2022 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 1,678 $ 1,302 $ 632 $ 107 $ 3,719 Operating expenses (1,081) (778) (405) (1,081) (3,345) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 149 89 84 653 975 Acquisition, integration and other costs 221 221 Asset impairments 29 29 Adjusted EBITDA $ 746 $ 613 $ 311 $ (71) $ 1,599 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,599 Depreciation and amortization (347) Purchase accounting amortization (628) Acquisition, integration and other costs (221) Asset impairments (29) Interest expense, net (47) Other income (expense), net 30 (Provision) benefit for income taxes (77) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (3) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 277 Capital expenditures $ 120 $ 109 $ 60 $ 51 $ 340 For the six months ended June 30, 2023 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 3,387 $ 2,416 $ 1,335 $ 118 $ 7,256 Operating expenses (2,296) (1,495) (859) (8,584) (13,234) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 309 193 181 1,099 1,782 Acquisition, integration and other costs 265 265 Asset impairments 6,841 6,841 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,400 $ 1,114 $ 657 $ (261) $ 2,910 Adjusted EBITDA $ 2,910 Depreciation and amortization (686) Purchase accounting amortization (1,096) Acquisition, integration and other costs (265) Asset impairments (6,841) Interest expense (291) Other income (expense), net (63) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (121) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (3) Net earnings (loss) attributable to FIS common stockholders $ (6,456) Capital expenditures (1) $ 195 $ 205 $ 127 $ 39 $ 566 (1) Capital expenditures include $20 million in other financing obligations for certain hardware. 23 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) For the six months ended June 30, 2022 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 3,337 $ 2,414 $ 1,259 $ 200 $ 7,210 Operating expenses (2,185) (1,459) (818) (2,217) (6,679) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 302 181 170 1,335 1,988 Acquisition, integration and other costs 410 410 Asset impairments 87 87 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,454 $ 1,136 $ 611 $ (185) $ 3,016 Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,016 Depreciation and amortization (710) Purchase accounting amortization (1,278) Acquisition, integration and other costs (410) Asset impairments (87) Interest expense, net (90) Other income (expense), net 92 (Provision) benefit for income taxes (132) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (4) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 397 Capital expenditures $ 278 $ 252 $ 144 $ 78 $ 752 (12) Subsequent Event On July 5, 2023, we signed a definitive agreement to sell a 55% equity interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business as further discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements and in Item 2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." 24 Table of Contents Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other management statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance or projections, projected revenue or expense synergies or dis-synergies, business and market conditions, outlook, foreign currency exchange rates, deleveraging plans, expected dividends and share repurchases of the Company, the Company's sales pipeline and anticipated profitability and growth, plans, strategies and objectives for future operations, strategic value creation, risk profile and investment strategies, any statements regarding future economic conditions or performance and any statements with respect to the previously announced pending sale of a 55% equity stake in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business ("pending Worldpay transaction"), the expected financial and operational results of the Company, and expectations regarding the Company's business or organization after the pending Worldpay transaction, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," "likely," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and various accruals and estimates. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties to which forward-looking statements are subject include the following, without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including those resulting from COVID-19 or other pandemics, a recession, intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, increased rates of inflation or interest, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets or currency fluctuations; the risk of losses in the event of defaults by merchants (or other parties) to which we extend credit in our card settlement operations or in respect of any chargeback liability, either of which could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions; the amount and timing of any future share repurchases is subject to, among other things, our share price, our other investment opportunities and cash requirements, our results of operations and financial condition, our future prospects and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors and management; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security or privacy breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software, including software updates, for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; 25 Table of Contents the risk that partners and third parties may fail to satisfy their legal obligations and risks associated with managing pension cost, cybersecurity issues, IT outages and data privacy; uncertainties as to the timing of the consummation of the pending Worldpay transaction or whether such sale will be completed; risks associated with the impact, timing or terms of the pending Worldpay transaction; risks associated with the expected benefits and costs of the pending Worldpay transaction, including the risk that the expected benefits of the pending Worldpay transaction or any contingent purchase price will not be realized within the expected timeframe, in full or at all; the risk that conditions to the pending Worldpay transaction will not be satisfied and/or that the pending Worldpay transaction will not be completed within the expected timeframe, on the expected terms or at all; the risk that any consents or regulatory or other approvals required in connection with the pending Worldpay transaction will not be received or obtained within the expected timeframe, on the expected terms or at all; the risk that the financing intended to fund the pending Worldpay transaction may not be obtained; the risk that the costs of restructuring transactions and other costs incurred in connection with the pending Worldpay transaction will exceed our estimates or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations; the impact of the pending Worldpay transaction on our businesses and the risk that the pending Worldpay transaction may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, including the impact on our resources, systems, procedures and controls, diversion of managements attention and the impact on relationships with customers, governmental authorities, suppliers, employees and other business counterparties; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; the risk that policies and resulting actions of the current administration in the U.S. may result in additional regulations and executive orders, as well as additional regulatory and tax costs; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed elsewhere in the "Risk Factors" and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for financial institutions and businesses of all sizes and across any industry globally. We enable the movement of commerce by unlocking the financial technology that powers the world's economy. Our employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests through our trusted innovation, system performance and flexible architecture. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and deliver superior experiences for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a member of the Fortune 500 and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. We have grown both organically and through acquisitions. Organic growth has been driven by a number of factors, including growth of our customers businesses, our internal development of new solutions that enhance our client offerings, and our sales and marketing efforts to expand our customer base and addressable markets. Acquisitions have contributed additional solutions that complement or enhance our offerings, diversify our client base, expand our geographic coverage, and provide entry into new and attractive adjacent markets that align with our strategic objectives. We continue to strategically allocate resources to both organic and inorganic growth initiatives to enhance the long-term value of our business. 26 Table of Contents FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. The Company regularly assesses its portfolio of assets and reclassified certain businesses from Capital Market Solutions to Banking Solutions and to the Corporate and Other Segment in the quarter ended March 31, 2023, and recast all prior-period segment information presented. A description of our segments is included in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the Adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Amounts in tables below may not sum or calculate due to rounding. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing solutions, transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. While we are a global company and do business around the world, the majority of our revenue is generated by clients in the U.S. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Australia, Canada and Brazil. In addition, the majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These solutions, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, substantially all of our Merchant revenue is recurring, derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the number or value of transactions processed, among other variable measures associated with consumer activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with point-in-time recognition and are less predictable. The U.S. and Europe, the two largest geographic areas for our businesses, are experiencing slower economic growth than in recent years. Lengthening sales cycles observed in 2022, particularly across large transactions with a total contract value in excess of $50 million, persisted in the first half of 2023, particularly in Banking. We also experienced, and continue to experience, higher rates of inflation in these markets, including increasing wage and benefits rates, which management believes is in part due to inflation and in part due to competitive job markets for the skilled employees who support our businesses, as well as increasing non-labor-related costs. Given the nature of our varied businesses, the magnitude of future effects of slower economic growth, including lengthy sales cycles and inflation, are difficult to predict, although they have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2022, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar had a negative impact on our revenue and earnings; however, the U.S. dollar has weakened in recent months, tempering the effects. Given the volatility of exchange rates and the mix of currencies involved in both revenues and expenses, the direction and magnitude of future effects of currency fluctuations are uncertain. Rising interest rates have had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our interest expense. Slowing Merchant segment revenue growth trends observed over the second half of 2022, reflecting both slower economic growth, particularly in the U.K., and competitive pressures, continued in the first half of 2023, and we anticipate them to continue in the short term. In addition, the war in Ukraine has negatively affected, and as long as it continues is expected to continue to negatively affect, our Merchant business. In 2022, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit, reflecting our intermediate-term expectation of lower growth in the segment. In the second quarter of 2023, we recorded an additional $6.8 billion impairment, reflective of the price at which we agreed to sell a majority interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business as discussed further below. See also "Goodwill Impairment" in our Critical Accounting Policies and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, as well as Critical Accounting Policies and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further details on the goodwill impairments. As a result of the factors noted above, for the Company as a whole, we expect 2023 revenue growth will be substantially slower than 2022, and we expect to experience margin compression in 2023 as compared to 2022. Over the longer term, we expect improvements in revenue growth and margins in response to improving economic conditions and planned management actions, including our Future Forward program discussed below. On July 5, 2023, we signed a definitive agreement to sell a 55% equity interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business to private equity funds managed by GTCR, LLC ("GTCR") in a transaction valuing the business at up to $18.5 billion, including potential consideration of $1.0 billion contingent on the returns realized by GTCR exceeding certain thresholds. We expect our net proceeds at closing from the sale to be approximately $11.7 billion, consisting of (i) $8.4 billion of proceeds from a pre-closing distribution from the Worldpay business (funded by new debt) and (ii) $5.0 billion from the sale of 55% of our ownership interest, net of estimated selling price adjustments, debt restructuring fees, taxes and transaction costs. The net proceeds are subject to adjustments for closing levels of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business's debt, working capital relative to an agreed target and available cash relative to an agreed minimum. We will retain a non-controlling 45% ownership 27 Table of Contents interest in a new standalone joint venture. We intend to use proceeds from the sale to pay down debt and return additional capital to shareholders through our existing share repurchase authorization, as well as for general corporate purposes, while maintaining an investment grade credit rating. In connection with the sale, FIS and Worldpay will enter into commercial agreements, preserving a key value proposition for clients of both businesses and minimizing potential dis-synergies. The transaction is expected to close by the first quarter of 2024, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. Following the closing of this transaction, FIS ownership interest in Worldpay will be reported as income from minority interest. Also in connection with this transaction, we plan to present the operating results and cash flows of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business as discontinued operations for all periods presented beginning with the third quarter of 2023. In November 2022, we launched an enterprise-wide efficiency program, Future Forward, with a focus on streamlining operations, accelerating time to market of new solutions and improving profitability and cash flow. As of June 30, 2023, we achieved annualized run-rate Future Forward cash savings of over $315 million exiting the quarter, including over $175 million of operational expense savings and over $140 million of capital expense savings. In light of the recently announced Worldpay separation, we are updating our target post-separation cash savings exiting 2024 from $1.25 billion to $1.0 billion, of which over two-thirds represents annualized run-rate savings. This $1.0 billion represents an expected retention of 80% of the original program's total commitment, prior to the effects of the pending sale of a majority interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business. We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourced solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next-generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients, and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, money movement, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. Consolidation within the banking industry has occurred and may continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe would broadly be detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our solutions if such solutions are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing solutions to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our solutions are not chosen to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the solutions that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive solutions to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. 28 Table of Contents Recent U.S. bank failures could negatively impact our results to the extent more of our customers become illiquid; however, our current exposure to recent failures is limited, and we may be a long-term beneficiary of the recent disruption. As a leading provider of financial technology services to the top 100 U.S. banks by asset size as well as other global financial institutions, FIS boasts a highly diversified customer base, with no single customer accounting for more than approximately 1% of 2022 total Company revenue. With respect to U.S. financial institution customers that closed during the first six months of 2023, FIS continues to provide services for these banks and is paid during their transition, and our revenue exposure from potential contract terminations related to these banks is not material. Further, FIS' core banking customer contracts are generally structured with fees that increase based on the number of active accounts or transactions rather than the amount of deposits. Thus, to the extent account volume increases, we are positioned to benefit from this growth as a leading core banking services provider to large financial institutions. We continue to see demand in the payments market for innovative solutions that will deliver faster, more convenient payment options in mobile channels, internet applications, in-store cards, and digital currencies. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new solutions, evolving new business models, and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking solutions to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point of sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. To facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best-positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies in the long term. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers and internet, retail and social media companies, continues to create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Globally, attacks on information technology systems, such as those operated by FIS, continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. We maintain significant focus on and investment in information security that is designed to mitigate threats to our systems and solutions. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and investment, we have developed and offer fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target the growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, except with respect to our goodwill impairment assessment. As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company performed a quantitative goodwill impairment assessment of the Merchant reporting unit as of June 30, 2023. To estimate the fair value of the reporting unit, we used a market approach based on the price at which the Company has agreed to sell a majority interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business. The estimated fair value included estimated selling price adjustments and fair value of contingent consideration based on the terms and conditions of the definitive agreement related to the sale. A 10% increase or decrease in the estimated net purchase price adjustments and fair value of contingent consideration would not have a material impact to the impairment charge. 29 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations - Comparisons of three- and six-month periods ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 3,746 $ 3,719 $ 27 1 % $ 7,256 $ 7,210 $ 46 1 % Cost of revenue (2,188) (2,234) 46 (2) (4,356) (4,475) 119 (3) Gross profit 1,558 1,485 73 5 2,900 2,735 165 6 Gross profit margin 42 % 40 % 40 % 38 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,033) (1,082) 49 (5) (2,037) (2,117) 80 (4) Asset impairments (6,841) (29) (6,812) NM (6,841) (87) (6,754) NM Operating income $ (6,316) $ 374 (6,690) NM $ (5,978) $ 531 (6,509) NM Operating margin (169) % 10 % (82) % 7 % NM = Not meaningful Revenue Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2023, increased primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth in Banking and Capital Markets segments and increased revenue in Merchant driven by increased volumes. Revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2023, increased primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth in Banking and Capital Markets segments. Revenue in Merchant and Capital Markets was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro as compared to the prior-year period. See "Segment Results of Operations" below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, decreased due to lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from foreign currency movements contributing to higher gross profit and gross profit margin. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, decreased primarily due to lower acquisition, integration and other costs, partially offset by higher corporate expenses. Asset Impairments For the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, the Company recorded a $6.8 billion impairment of goodwill related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit due to its estimated fair value being less than its carrying value. For the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, the Company recorded $29 million of impairments primarily related to a non-strategic business. For the six months ended June 30, 2022, the Company also recorded $58 million of impairments primarily related to real estate-related assets as a result of office space reductions. Operating Income and Operating Margin The change in operating income for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. The operating margin for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, included impairment of goodwill related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit and was partially offset by lower intangible asset amortization compared to the prior-year period. 30 Table of Contents Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change Other income (expense): (In millions) (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (153) $ (47) $ (106) NM $ (291) $ (90) $ (201) NM Other income (expense), net (53) 30 (83) NM (63) 92 (155) NM Total other income (expense), net $ (206) $ (17) (189) NM $ (354) $ 2 (356) NM NM = Not meaningful The increase in interest expense, net during the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, was primarily due to higher interest rates on our debt and higher outstanding debt throughout the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, offset in part by increased interest income. Other income (expense), net includes the net change in fair value of the CVR-related preferred stock and CVR liability of $9 million and $25 million for the three months and $6 million and $49 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Other income (expense), net also includes net gains (losses) on equity security investments without readily determinable fair values of $(32) million and $6 million for the three months and $(34) million and $47 million for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net gains (losses) on equity securities investments includes $32 million of impairment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, on an equity security investment which the Company agreed to sell for less than its carrying value subsequent to June 30, 2023. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 72 $ 77 $ (5) NM $ 121 $ 132 $ (11) NM Effective tax rate (1) % 22 % (2) % 25 % NM = Not meaningful The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended June 30, 2023, was primarily driven by the book impairment of goodwill for which there is no tax basis. Segment Results of Operations - Comparisons of three- and six- month periods ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions, Merchant Solutions, Capital Market Solutions, and Corporate and Other. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit), depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of Adjusted EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. 31 Table of Contents Banking Solutions Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 1,702 $ 1,678 $ 24 1 % $ 3,387 $ 3,337 $ 50 1 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 724 $ 746 (22) (3) $ 1,400 $ 1,454 $ (54) (4) Adjusted EBITDA margin 42.5 % 44.5 % 41.3 % 43.6 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (200) (230) Three months ended June 30: Revenue in our Banking segment increased 1% year over year for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 2% to growth, as payments volumes increased year over year, including in our commercial services and value-added processing businesses. Non-recurring revenue contributed (1%) to growth due to a reduction in termination fees versus the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin declined year over year due to revenue mix. Six months ended June 30: Revenue in our Banking segment increased 1% year over year for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 3% to growth, as payments volumes increased year over year, including in our commercial services and value-added processing businesses. Non-recurring revenue contributed (2%) to growth due to a reduction in termination fees versus the prior year. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin declined year over year due to revenue mix. Merchant Solutions Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 1,312 $ 1,302 $ 10 1 % $ 2,416 $ 2,414 $ 2 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 633 $ 613 20 3 $ 1,114 $ 1,136 (22) (2) Adjusted EBITDA margin 48.3 % 47.1 % 46.1 % 47.0 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change 120 (90) Three months ended June 30: Revenue in our Merchant segment increased 1% year over year for the three months ended June 30, 2023, primarily driven by increased transaction volumes. Revenue from our global eCommerce volumes, including revenue related to our Payrix business, contributed 3% to growth. Revenue from our Enterprise business contributed (2%) to growth due to the impact of UK macroeconomic pressures and the decline of low-margin tax processing volumes in the U.S. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin increased year over year due to revenue mix and cost efficiencies. Six months ended June 30: Revenue in our Merchant segment was flat year over year for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Higher revenue from our global eCommerce business, including revenue related to our Payrix business, contributed 4% to growth. Enterprise volumes contributed (2%) to growth due to the impact of U.K. macroeconomic pressures and the decline of low-margin tax processing volumes in the U.S. Small- and medium-sized business volumes contributed (1%) to growth. Total revenue was 32 Table of Contents impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (1%) to growth, due to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin declined year over year due to revenue mix. On July 5, 2023, we signed a definitive agreement to sell a 55% equity interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business, as further discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements and in Item 2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Capital Market Solutions Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 672 $ 632 $ 40 6 % $ 1,335 $ 1,259 $ 76 6 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 337 $ 311 26 8 $ 657 $ 611 46 8 Adjusted EBITDA margin 50.2 % 49.2 % 49.2 % 48.5 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change 100 70 Three months ended June 30: Revenue in our Capital Markets segment increased 6% year over year for the three months ended June 30, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 7% to growth due to strong new sales momentum and continued movement to a SaaS-based recurring revenue model. Professional services revenue contributed (1%) to growth. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin increased year over year due to strong contribution margins from revenue growth. Six months ended June 30: Revenue in our Capital Markets segment increased 6% year over year for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Recurring revenue contributed 8% to growth due to strong new sales momentum and continued movement to a SaaS-based recurring revenue model. Professional services revenue contributed (1%) to growth. Total revenue was impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (1%) to growth, due to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin increased year over year due to strong contribution margins from revenue growth. Corporate and Other Three months ended June 30, Six months ended June 30, $ % $ % 2023 2022 Change Change 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) (In millions) Revenue $ 60 $ 107 $ (47) (44) % $ 118 $ 200 $ (82) (41) % Adjusted EBITDA $ (143) $ (71) (72) 101 $ (261) $ (185) (76) 41 The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from certain non-strategic businesses. Three months ended June 30: Revenue in our Corporate and Other segment decreased 44% year over year for the three months ended June 30, 2023, due to the divestiture of non-strategic businesses in 2022. 33 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA decreased from higher corporate expenses as compared to the prior year period. Six months ended June 30: Revenue in our Corporate and Other segment decreased 41% year over year for the six months ended June 30, 2023, due to the divestiture of non-strategic businesses in 2022. Adjusted EBITDA decreased from higher corporate expenses as compared to the prior year period. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, regulatory requirements, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. As of June 30, 2023, the Company had $4,037 million of available liquidity, including $1,982 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2,055 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility and Incremental Credit Facility. Approximately $1,204 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities, including amounts related to regulatory requirements. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents relates to settlement payables and net deposits-in-transit, which are typically settled within a few business days. Debt outstanding totaled $19.5 billion, with an effective weighted average interest rate of 3.4%. We believe that our current level of cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service payments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.52 per common share is payable on September 22, 2023, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on September 8, 2023. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends at a target payout ratio consistent with our previously announced capital allocation strategy. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities (including potential mergers and acquisitions), results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors, including legal and contractual restrictions, that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. Although we continue to evaluate the optimal capital structure for our business following the completion of the pending sale of a majority interest in the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business, we intend to maintain investment grade debt ratings for FIS. The pending Worldpay transaction will also result in significant one-time costs, a portion of which we may be required to fund. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program under which it authorized the Company to repurchase up to 100 million shares of our common stock at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The share repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended for periods, amended or discontinued at any time. Approximately 64 million shares remained available for repurchase as of June 30, 2023. We plan to continue to prioritize debt reduction over share repurchases during the second half of 2023, in part given our outlook for business trends in the second half of 2023. The proceeds from the pending sale of the Worldpay Merchant Solutions business will give us increased flexibility to further reduce debt as well as repurchase shares while maintaining an investment grade credit rating. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $1,719 million and $1,920 million for the six-month periods ended June 30, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items. Cash flows from operations decreased $201 million in the six-month 34 Table of Contents period ended June 30, 2023, primarily due to a decrease in net earnings after adjusting to add back depreciation and other non-cash items. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $546 million and $752 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during the six-month periods ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We expect to continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our business. During the six-month periods ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, we (paid) received approximately $(17) million and $645 million of net cash reflected as investing activities due to the settlement of existing cross-currency interest rate swaps. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. In January 2023, the Founders of Virtus exercised their put option, and as a result, FIS paid the $173 million redemption value, recorded as a financing activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Financing For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Indebtedness" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2023, and "