ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to FIS, we, the Company or the registrant are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1: Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The discussion below contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about our expectations, hopes, intentions, beliefs, or strategies regarding the future, are forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events and our future results, and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Any statements that refer to beliefs, expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and other statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. In many cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, potential, or continue, or the negative of these terms and other comparable terminology. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties that forward-looking statements are subject to include without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including the possibility of intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, and changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets, and changes in foreign exchange rates; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, changes in governmental or other applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to the theft of personal information and computer viruses affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the reaction of our current and potential customers to communications from us or our regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; competitive pressures on pricing related to our solutions including the ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; and other risks detailed elsewhere, including, without limitation, the factors set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully consider the possibility that actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Overview FIS is a global leader in banking and payments technology as well as consulting and outsourcing solutions. With a long history deeply rooted in the financial services sector, FIS serves more than 14,000 institutions in over 130 countries. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS employs approximately 40,000 people worldwide and holds leadership positions in payment processing and banking solutions, providing software, services and outsourcing of the technology that drives financial institutions. Through our Capco brand, we deliver globally a wide range of information technology consulting and 16 Table of Contents transformational services to financial institutions. FIS is a member of the Fortune 500 U.S. and of Standard and Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. In March 2015, we finalized a reorganization and are streamlining our global operations in response to market conditions and to meet the demand of specific client needs more efficiently. As a result of these changes, the Company will report its financial performance based on three reportable segments: Integrated Financial Solutions, Global Financial Solutions and Corporate and Other. A description of these segments is included in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). Revenues by segment and the results of operations of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of recurring technology and processing services, consulting and professional services and software license fees. The majority of our revenue has historically been recurring, provided under multi-year contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These services, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. A significant portion of these recurring revenues is derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the level of deposit accounts and card transactions associated with consumer and commercial activity. Consulting and professional services revenues are typically non-recurring, and sales of software licenses are less predictable, a portion of which can be regarded as discretionary spending by our clients. A continued trend in the financial services industry from which we are benefiting is the migration by many financial institutions to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and rapidly address regulatory challenges. As a provider of outsourcing solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of year-to-year economic changes on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are targeted and well positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. Consulting services revenue grew at an increased pace in 2014, and we believe this trend will continue in 2015. The current market pressures in the financial services industry are driving demand for our consulting and professional services as many financial institutions seek to transform their businesses to significantly reduce their cost base, innovate, and comply with increased regulatory oversight with regard to information technology and related processes. Capco provides strategic consulting service capabilities to respond to these market needs and has established itself as a leading global consultancy focused on transformation strategy and execution. In 2014, we targeted a market opportunity in large global financial institutions where we coupled our strategic consulting and transformation services with outsourced technology, services and solutions to help them achieve their business goals. We made significant, incremental investments in management, sales and account management resources in 2014 to address this opportunity. We believe this market opportunity remains attractive as these large institutions address the challenges they face. We believe these institutions have an increased willingness to outsource solutions and services to drive cost reductions and transformation. Additionally, we believe these large global institutions are likely to increase technology spending to meet competitive pressures after a slowdown during the recent financial crisis years. These trends were central to our segment reorganization referenced above. We have reorganized management and service delivery by aligning certain solutions and sales delivery teams to their market segment to further focus on this market opportunity. We believe that global financial institutions are a higher-growth market where we generate lower margins due to the high mix of professional services, including consulting, information technology integration and business process outsourcing. In making these organizational adjustments, we believe we can expand margins over time in this segment as we continue to rationalize our operations, gain scale and develop more targeted solutions . Our re-segmentation and alignment of resources in our Global Financial Solutions segment resulted in a restructuring charge of $44.6 million in the first quarter of 2015. The alignment activities relate primarily to Europe and are a combination of optimizing on-shore and off-shore resources as well as the removal of overlapping management resources and will continue in the second quarter. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to faster on-demand banking solutions and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We are focused on enabling our clients to deliver this experience to their customers through our integrated solutions and services. We continue to innovate and invest in these integrated solutions and services to assist clients as they address this market demand. To further focus on this trend in 2015, we have aligned our solutions into the markets they primarily serve. 17 Table of Contents We continue to see demand for innovative solutions in the payments market that will deliver faster, more convenient payment solutions in mobile channels, internet applications and cards. We believe mobile payments will grow and partially replace existing payment tender volumes over time as consumers and merchants embrace the convenience, incremental services and benefits. Mobile payment volume is growing significantly but does not yet represent a meaningful amount of the payments market. Additionally, new formidable non-traditional payments competitors, such as Apple, PayPal, and large merchants, are investing in and innovating mobile payment technologies to address the emerging market opportunity, and it is unclear the extent to which particular technologies or services will succeed. We believe the growth of mobile payments continues to present both an opportunity and a risk to us as the market develops. Although we cannot predict which mobile payment technologies or solution will be successful, we cautiously believe our client relationships, payments infrastructure and experience, adapted solutions and emerging solutions are well positioned to maintain or grow our clients' existing payment volumes, which is our focus. High profile North American merchant payment card information security breaches have pushed the payment card industry towards EMV integrated circuit cards as financial institutions, card networks and merchants seek to improve information security and reduce fraud costs. We have invested in our card management solutions and card manufacturing and processing capabilities to accommodate EMV integrated circuit cards so we can guide our clients through this anticipated technology transition, sustain and grow our card driven businesses. We believe the trend to migrate to EMV cards will continue to accelerate in 2015 and we continue to invest to address market demand. The use of checks continues to decline as a percentage of total payments, which negatively impacts our check warranty and item-processing businesses, and we expect this trend to continue. In 2014 and in the first quarter of 2015, we observed a modest slowdown in our check volume decline and to date have been able to successfully mitigate the majority of the impacts of this decline through cost and fraud efficiency actions and new market solutions, which remain our continued focus. We anticipate consolidation within the banking industry will continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity, which we believe as a whole is detrimental to our business. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial or detrimental to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems licensed from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our services if such services are chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose market share if we are providing services to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our services are not chosen to survive the consolidation and support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive services to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Through the first quarter of 2015, we have experienced lower consolidation activity and resulting termination fees compared to the comparable periods in the prior two years. Notwithstanding challenging global economic conditions, our international business continued to experience growth across all major regions on a constant currency basis during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , including Latin America, Europe and Asia. We expect this growth trend to continue as the result of continued growth in our consulting and professional services, new, large-scale outsourcing clients and the opportunities we see for similar arrangements. Demand for our solutions will also be driven in developing countries by government-led financial inclusion policies aimed to reduce the unbanked population and by growth in the middle classes in these markets driving the need for more sophisticated banking solutions. The majority of our European revenue is generated by clients in the United Kingdom, France and Germany. In the first quarter 2015, we have experienced adverse currency impacts in our international businesses as a consequence of a relative strengthening U.S. dollar. In 2015, we expect a moderate increase in unfavorable foreign currency impact, but we cannot predict if this adverse currency impact trend will continue. Information Security Globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect will continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. Despite our significant investments in protection and detection technology and personnel, FIS is not immune to such attacks. As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. FIS, like any large financial technology service provider, is subject to attempted cyber-attacks on a regular basis. A successful cyber- 18 Table of Contents attack on an FIS system that resulted in sensitive information being compromised, fraud losses or other adverse consequences could have a material adverse effect on the company. As a Multi-Regional Data Processing Servicer (MDPS), FIS is examined by and has regular interaction with the federal agencies that regulate financial institutions. These regulators have the authority to take actions they deem necessary to protect the safety and soundness of the financial institutions they regulate. Such actions, if taken, could have a material adverse impact on FIS' business. FIS regularly reports to its regulators and to its clients regarding the Company's continual efforts to enhance its risk management, information security and compliance programs and procedures. FIS is unable to predict what, if any, communications or actions the regulators will have or take with FIS' regulated financial institution clients with respect to FIS' risk management, information security and compliance programs. FIS is also unable to predict the effect that any such communications or actions may have on our business. FIS remains focused on making strategic investments in information security to protect its clients and its information systems. This includes both capital expenditures and operating expense on hardware, software, personnel and consulting services. We also participate in industry and governmental initiatives to improve information security for our clients. Critical Accounting Policies There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Transactions with Related Parties See Note 2 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) for a detailed description of transactions with related parties. 19 Table of Contents Comparisons of three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 Consolidated Results of Operations (Unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 Processing and services revenues $ 1,554.8 $ 1,520.3 Cost of revenues 1,070.3 1,044.4 Gross profit 484.5 475.9 Selling, general, and administrative expenses 269.4 189.8 Operating income 215.1 286.1 Other income (expense): Interest expense, net (37.4 ) (41.1 ) Other income (expense), net (1.4 ) (0.5 ) Total other income (expense), net (38.8 ) (41.6 ) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes 176.3 244.5 Provision for income taxes 57.8 81.2 Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax 118.5 163.3 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (3.1 ) (2.2 ) Net earnings 115.4 161.1 Net (earnings) loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (4.5 ) (6.6 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 110.9 $ 154.5 Net earnings per share basic from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.54 Net earnings (loss) per share basic from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Net earnings per share basic attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.39 $ 0.54 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 283.0 288.0 Net earnings per share diluted from continuing operations attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.54 Net earnings (loss) per share diluted from discontinued operations attributable to FIS common stockholders (0.01 ) (0.01 ) Net earnings per share diluted attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 0.39 $ 0.53 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 286.8 291.9 Amounts attributable to FIS common stockholders: Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax $ 114.0 $ 156.7 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax (3.1 ) (2.2 ) Net earnings attributable to FIS $ 110.9 $ 154.5 Processing and Services Revenues Processing and services revenues totaled $1,554.8 million and $1,520.3 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The increase in revenue of $34.5 million , or 2.3% , during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 as compared to the 2014 period is primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the acquisitions of Clear2Pay and Reliance and increased demand for professional and consulting services and processing services, all of which was partially offset by an approximately $28.0 million reduction in termination fees. The year-over-year growth was also diminished by approximately $46.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact included in the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar. 20 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues totaled $1,070.3 million and $1,044.4 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, resulting in gross profit of $484.5 million and $475.9 million , respectively. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 31.2% and 31.3% during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 . The increase in gross profit during the 2015 period as compared to 2014 primarily resulted from the revenue variances noted above. The reduction in gross profit percentage during the three-months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 was largely attributable to the impact of lower termination fees, increased investment in our European capabilities, and a scope modification and delay of a significant project. Selling , General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses totaled $269.4 million and $189.8 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The year-over-year increase for the three-month period ended 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily resulted from severance costs of $44.6 million incurred in conjunction with the reorganization and streamlining of operations in our GFS segment, transaction and other costs, including integration activities, of $12.2 million relating to recent acquisitions and other incremental costs related to acquisitions. Operating Income Operating income totaled $215.1 million and $286.1 million and operating income as a percentage of revenue (operating margin) was 13.8% and 18.8% during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The changes in operating income and margin for the three months of 2015 as compared to 2014 resulted from the variances addressed above. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Total other income (expense), net was $(38.8) million and $(41.6) million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Interest expense is a large component of total other income (expense), net. Interest expense decreased $3.7 million during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily due to lower borrowing rates as the result of the debt refinancing activity undertaken during 2014 . Provision for Income Taxes Income tax expense from continuing operations totaled $57.8 million and $81.2 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , resulting in effective tax rates from continuing operations of 33% for both three-month periods. Earnings (Loss) from Discontinued Operations During the 2015 and 2014 periods, certain operations are classified as discontinued as discussed more fully in Note 4 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and as summarized in the following tables. Reporting for discontinued operations classifies revenues and expenses as one line item, net of tax, in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited). Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 China eCas business line $ (1.7 ) $ (1.8 ) Participacoes (1.4 ) (0.4 ) Total discontinued operations $ (3.1 ) $ (2.2 ) 21 Table of Contents Earnings from Continuing Operations, Net of Tax, Attributable to FIS Common Stockholders Earnings from continuing operations, net of tax, attributable to FIS common stockholders totaled $114.0 million and $156.7 million resulting in earnings per diluted share of $0.40 and $0.54 for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, reflecting the variances described above and the impacts of our share repurchase program. 22 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations (Unaudited) Integrated Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 Processing and services revenues $ 968.9 $ 937.2 Operating income $ 326.4 $ 320.0 Revenues for IFS totaled $968.9 million and $937.2 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The overall segment increase of $31.7 million during the 2015 period as compared to 2014 was primarily attributable to incremental revenues from our 2014 acquisition of Reliance (Note 11) and growth in card personalization volumes, partially offset by the net reduction in termination fees in comparison to the prior year period. Operating income for IFS totaled $326.4 million and $320.0 million and operating margin was 33.7% and 34.1% during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. While the overall revenue increase contributed increased operating income for the 2015 period as compared to 2014 , the reduction in termination fees by approximately $28.0 million in comparison to the prior year quarter resulted in the reduced operating margin during the 2015 three-month period. Global Financial Solutions (in millions) Three months ended March 31, 2015 2014 Processing and services revenues $ 586.9 $ 583.5 Operating income $ 47.0 $ 67.0 Revenues for GFS totaled $586.9 million and $583.5 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The revenue increase for the three months ended March 31, 2015 as compared to 2014 was primarily attributable to incremental revenues from the acquisition of Clear2Pay (Note 11) and increased demand for consulting services and professional services, including ATM management in India. The year-over-year growth was offset by approximately $45.0 million of unfavorable foreign currency impact included in the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 resulting from a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the Real, Euro, British Pound Sterling and Indian Rupee. Operating income for GFS totaled $47.0 million and $67.0 million and operating margin was 8.0% and 11.5% during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The decreases in operating income and operating margin during the 2015 three-month period as compared to the 2014 period primarily resulted from the impact of unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates, expenses related to the project delay noted above under Consolidated Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit, investment in expanding capabilities in the United Kingdom and the change in revenue mix reflecting increased professional and consulting services, partially offset by expense management. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other expenses were $158.3 million and $100.9 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. The year-over-year increase for the three-month period ended 2015 as compared to 2014 primarily resulted from severance costs of $44.6 million incurred in conjunction with the reorganization and streamlining of operations in our GFS segment and transaction and other costs, including integration activities, of $12.2 million relating to acquisitions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements 23 Table of Contents Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities, and may include discretionary debt service, share repurchases, and business acquisitions. Our cash requirements also include payments for Capco's contingent consideration earn-out and for labor claims related to FIS' former item processing and remittance operations in Brazil (see Note 4 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)). Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Loan described in Note 7 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). As of March 31, 2015 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $489.0 million and debt of $5,196.4 million , including the current portion. Of the $489.0 million cash and cash equivalents, approximately $285.5 million is held by our foreign entities and would generally be subject to U.S. income taxation upon repatriation to the U.S. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents represents net deposits-in-transit at the balance sheet dates and relates to daily settlement activity. We expect that cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations over the next twelve months will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends, which we have increased over recent years. On January 30, 2015, the Board of Directors approved an additional 8% increase to $0.26 per share per quarter beginning with the first quarter of 2015. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.26 per common share was paid on March 31, 2015 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on March 17, 2015. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $231.1 million and $222.6 million during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Cash flows from operations increased $8.5 million in 2015 primarily due to the net change in working capital, partially offset by lower net earnings. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for computer software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested $101.2 million and $89.9 million in capital expenditures (excluding capital leases) during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. We expect to invest approximately 5.5-6.0% of 2015 revenue in capital expenditures. Financing For information regarding the Company's long-term debt and financing activity, see Note 7 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited). We spent $150.4 million in the first quarter of 2015 compared to $175.0 million in the comparable 2014 period for share repurchases, resulting in less use of cash. Coupled with higher share prices, this resulted in a 1.0 million reduction in shares repurchased in the 2015 period versus 2014. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes in our contractual obligations in the first quarter of 2015 in comparison to the table included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K as filed on February 27, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09). ASU 2014-09 amends substantially all authoritative literature for revenue recognition, including industry-specific 24 Table of Contents requirements, and converges the guidance under this topic with that of the International Financial Reporting Standards. The ASU implements a five-step process for customer contract revenue recognition that focuses on transfer of control, as opposed to transfer of risk and rewards. The amendment also requires enhanced disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows from contracts with customers. Other provisions include ensuring the time value of money is considered in the transaction price and allowing estimates of variable consideration to be recognized before contingencies are resolved in certain circumstances. The effective date to the amendments is expected to be postponed to reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption allowed for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Entities can transition to the standard either with retrospective application to the earlier years presented in their financial statements or with a cumulative-effect adjustment as of the date of adoption. We are currently assessing the impact the adoption of ASU 2014-09 will have on our financial position and results of operations.