Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services clients with a broad array of buy- and sell-side solutions. Clients in this segment operate in more than 100 countries and include asset managers, buy- and sell-side securities brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, and other commercial organizations. Our buy- and sell-side solutions include a variety of mission-critical applications for recordkeeping, data and analytics, trading, financing and risk management. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions in various ways including licensing and managing technology "in-house," using consulting and third-party service providers, as well as procuring fully outsourced end-to-end solutions. Our long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to make, investments in modern platforms, advanced technologies, open APIs, machine learning and artificial intelligence, and regulatory technology to support our Capital Markets clients. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses that we plan to wind down or sell. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs, such as acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. 17 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) In the Corporate and Other segment, the Company recorded acquisition, integration and other costs comprised of the following (in millions): Three months ended March 31, 2023 2022 Acquisition and integration $ 9 $ 48 Enterprise transformation, including Future forward and platform modernization 76 80 Severance and other termination expenses associated with enterprise cost control initiatives and changes in senior management 28 11 Planned spin-off of the Merchant Solutions business 11 Stock-based compensation, primarily from certain performance-based awards 24 Other, including divestiture-related expenses, enterprise costs control and other initiatives 3 28 Total acquisition, integration and other costs $ 127 $ 190 Amounts in table may not sum due to rounding. Other costs in Corporate and Other also included incremental amortization expense associated with shortened estimated useful lives and accelerated amortization methods for certain software and deferred contract cost assets resulting from the Company's platform modernization totaling $19 million and $52 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, which is recorded in depreciation and amortization in the statement of operations. Additionally, during the quarter ended March 31, 2022, the Company recorded $58 million of impairments primarily related to real estate-related assets resulting from office space reductions. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a measure of segment profit or loss that is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit) and depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include the purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Summarized financial information for the Company's segments is shown in the following tables. The Company does not evaluate performance or allocate resources based on segment asset data; therefore, such information is not presented. 18 Table of Contents FIDELITY NATIONAL INFORMATION SERVICES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Unaudited) For the three months ended March 31, 2023 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 1,685 $ 1,105 $ 663 $ 57 $ 3,510 Operating expenses (1,164) (720) (436) (853) (3,173) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 155 96 93 551 895 Acquisition, integration and other costs 127 127 Adjusted EBITDA $ 676 $ 481 $ 320 $ (118) $ 1,359 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,359 Depreciation and amortization (347) Purchase accounting amortization (548) Acquisition, integration and other costs (127) Interest expense, net (137) Other income (expense), net (11) (Provision) benefit for income taxes (48) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (1) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 140 Capital expenditures $ 98 $ 102 $ 63 $ 16 $ 279 For the three months ended March 31, 2022 (in millions): Capital Banking Merchant Market Corporate Solutions Solutions Solutions and Other Total Revenue $ 1,659 $ 1,112 $ 627 $ 94 $ 3,492 Operating expenses (1,104) (682) (413) (1,136) (3,335) Depreciation and amortization (including purchase accounting amortization) 152 92 86 683 1,013 Acquisition, integration and other costs 190 190 Asset impairments 58 58 Adjusted EBITDA $ 707 $ 522 $ 300 $ (111) $ 1,418 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1,418 Depreciation and amortization (363) Purchase accounting amortization (650) Acquisition, integration and other costs (190) Asset impairments (58) Interest expense, net (43) Other income (expense), net 61 (Provision) benefit for income taxes (54) Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest (1) Net earnings attributable to FIS common stockholders $ 120 Capital expenditures $ 160 $ 143 $ 81 $ 28 $ 412 19 Table of Contents Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Unless stated otherwise or the context otherwise requires, all references to "FIS," "we," "our," "us," the "Company" or the "registrant" are to Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its subsidiaries. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Item 1. Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the Notes thereto included elsewhere in this report. The statements contained in this Form 10-Q or in our other documents or in oral presentations or other management statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. federal securities laws. Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about anticipated financial outcomes, including any earnings guidance or projections, projected revenue or expense synergies or dis-synergies, business and market conditions, outlook, accruals and estimates, foreign currency exchange rates, deleveraging plans, expected dividends and share repurchases of the Company and following the proposed spin-off of the Merchant Solutions business, the Company's and the Merchant Solutions business' sales pipelines and anticipated profitability and growth, assumptions and strategies of the Company and the Merchant Solutions business following the proposed spin-off, the anticipated benefits of the spin-off, the expected timing of completion of the spin-off, as well as other statements about our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future, or other characterizations of future events or circumstances, are forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," "likely," and similar expressions. These statements relate to future events and our future results and involve a number of risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements are based on managements beliefs as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, management. Actual results, performance or achievement could differ materially from those contained in these forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties to which forward-looking statements are subject include the following, without limitation: changes in general economic, business and political conditions, including those resulting from COVID-19 or other pandemics, a recession, intensified international hostilities, acts of terrorism, increased rates of inflation or interest, changes in either or both the United States and international lending, capital and financial markets or currency fluctuations; the effect of legislative initiatives or proposals, statutory changes, governmental or applicable regulations and/or changes in industry requirements, including privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations; the risks of reduction in revenue from the elimination of existing and potential customers due to consolidation in, or new laws or regulations affecting, the banking, retail and financial services industries or due to financial failures or other setbacks suffered by firms in those industries; changes in the growth rates of the markets for our solutions; the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of our Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities, results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors, including legal and contractual restrictions; the amount and timing of any future share repurchases is subject to, among other things, our share price, our other investment opportunities and cash requirements, our results of operations and financial condition, our future prospects and other factors that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors and management; failures to adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace; internal or external security breaches of our systems, including those relating to unauthorized access, theft, corruption or loss of personal information and computer viruses and other malware affecting our software or platforms, and the reactions of customers, card associations, government regulators and others to any such events; the risk that implementation of software, including software updates, for customers or at customer locations or employee error in monitoring our software and platforms may result in the corruption or loss of data or customer information, interruption of business operations, outages, exposure to liability claims or loss of customers; risks associated with the impact or terms of the previously announced proposed spin-off of the Companys Merchant Solutions business, including the impact on our businesses, resources, systems, procedures and controls, diversion of managements attention and the impact on relationships with customers, governmental authorities, suppliers, employees and other business counterparties; risks associated with the expected benefits of the proposed spin-off, including the risk that the expected benefits of the proposed spin-off will not be realized within the expected timeframe, in full or at all, and the risk that conditions to the proposed spin-off will not be satisfied and/or that the proposed spin-off will not be completed within the expected timeframe, on the expected terms or at all; failure to obtain the expected qualification of the proposed spin-off as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes, including whether or not an IRS ruling will be obtained; 20 Table of Contents the risk that any consents or approvals required in connection with the proposed spin-off will not be received or obtained within the expected timeframe, on the expected terms or at all; risks associated with expected financing transactions undertaken in connection with the proposed spin-off and risks associated with indebtedness incurred in connection with the proposed spin-off, including the potential inability to access or reduced access to the capital markets or increased cost of borrowings, including as a result of a credit rating downgrade; the risk that dis-synergy costs, costs of restructuring transactions and other costs incurred in connection with the proposed spin-off will exceed our estimates or otherwise adversely affect our business or operations; the reaction of current and potential customers to communications from us or regulators regarding information security, risk management, internal audit or other matters; the risk of losses in the event of defaults by merchants (or other parties) to which we extend credit in our card settlement operations or in respect of any chargeback liability, either of which could adversely impact liquidity and results of operations; the risk that acquired businesses will not be integrated successfully or that the integration will be more costly or more time-consuming and complex than anticipated; the risk that cost savings and synergies anticipated to be realized from acquisitions may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risks of doing business internationally; the risk that policies and resulting actions of the current administration in the U.S. may result in additional regulations and executive orders, as well as additional regulatory and tax costs; major bank failures or sustained financial market illiquidity; competitive pressures on pricing related to the decreasing number of community banks in the U.S., the development of new disruptive technologies competing with one or more of our solutions, increasing presence of international competitors in the U.S. market and the entry into the market by global banks and global companies with respect to certain competitive solutions, each of which may have the impact of unbundling individual solutions from a comprehensive suite of solutions we provide to many of our customers; the failure to innovate in order to keep up with new emerging technologies, which could impact our solutions and our ability to attract new, or retain existing, customers; an operational or natural disaster at one of our major operations centers; failure to comply with applicable requirements of payment networks or changes in those requirements; fraud by merchants or bad actors; and other risks detailed elsewhere in the Risk Factors and other sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and in our other filings with the SEC. Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Except as required by applicable law or regulation, we do not undertake (and expressly disclaim) any obligation and do not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview FIS is a leading provider of technology solutions for financial institutions and businesses of all sizes and across any industry globally. We enable the movement of commerce by unlocking the financial technology that powers the world's economy. Our employees are dedicated to advancing the way the world pays, banks and invests through our trusted innovation, system performance and flexible architecture. We help our clients use technology in innovative ways to solve business-critical challenges and deliver superior experiences for their customers. Headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida, FIS is a member of the Fortune 500 and the Standard & Poor's 500 Index. We have grown both organically and through acquisitions. Organic growth has been driven by a number of factors, including growth of our customers businesses, our internal development of new solutions that enhance our client offerings, and our sales and marketing efforts to expand our customer base and addressable markets. Acquisitions have contributed additional solutions that complement or enhance our offerings, diversify our client base, expand our geographic coverage, and provide entry into new and attractive adjacent markets that align with our strategic objectives. We continue to strategically allocate resources to both organic and inorganic growth initiatives to enhance the long-term value of our business. 21 Table of Contents FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions ("Banking"), Merchant Solutions ("Merchant"), Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") and Corporate and Other. The Company regularly assesses its portfolio of assets and reclassified certain businesses from Capital Market Solutions to Banking Solutions and to the Corporate and Other Segment in the quarter ended March 31, 2023, and recast all prior-period segment information presented. A description of our segments is included in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Revenue by segment and the Adjusted EBITDA of our segments are discussed below in Segment Results of Operations. Amounts in tables below may not sum or calculate due to rounding. Business Trends and Conditions Our revenue is primarily derived from a combination of technology and processing solutions, transaction fees, professional services and software license fees. While we are a global company and do business around the world, the majority of our revenue is generated by clients in the U.S. The majority of our international revenue is generated by clients in the U.K., Germany, Australia, Canada and Brazil. In addition, the majority of our revenue has historically been recurring and has been provided under multi-year Banking and Capital Markets contracts that contribute relative stability to our revenue stream. These solutions, in general, are considered critical to our clients' operations. Although Merchant has a lesser percentage of multi-year contracts, substantially all of our Merchant revenue is recurring, derived from transaction processing fees that fluctuate with the number or value of transactions processed, among other variable measures associated with consumer activity. Professional services revenue is typically non-recurring, though recognition often occurs over time rather than at a point in time. Sales of software licenses are typically non-recurring with point-in-time recognition and are less predictable. The U.S. and Europe, the two largest geographic areas for our businesses, are experiencing slower economic growth than in recent years. In 2022, we began to experience lengthening sales cycles in Banking and Capital Markets, particularly across large transactions with a total contract value in excess of $50 million. We also experienced, and continue to experience, higher rates of inflation in these markets, including increasing wage and benefits rates, which management believes is in part due to inflation and in part due to competitive job markets for the skilled employees who support our businesses, as well as increasing non-labor-related costs. Given the nature of our varied businesses, the magnitude of future effects of slower economic growth, including lengthy sales cycles and inflation, are difficult to predict, although they have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In 2022, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar had a negative impact on our revenue and earnings; however, it has weakened in recent months, tempering the effects. Given the volatility of exchange rates and the mix of currencies involved in both revenues and expenses, the direction and magnitude of future effects of currency fluctuations are uncertain. Rising interest rates had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our interest expense. In 2022, we also recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $17.6 billion related to the Merchant Solutions reporting unit. The impairment reflects our intermediate-term expectation of lower growth in the segment, particularly related to the SMB sub-segment. See "Goodwill Impairment" in our Critical Accounting Policies and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, for further details. The Merchant segment revenue growth decelerated over the second half of 2022, particularly in the fourth quarter, primarily reflecting a decline in SMB sub-segment revenues, attributable to slower economic growth and competitive pressures. Additionally, our Enterprise sub-segment was negatively impacted in 2022 by a decline in U.K.- derived revenue, principally reflecting softer economic conditions in the region. These trends continued in the first quarter of 2023, and we anticipate them to continue in the short term. In addition, the war in Ukraine has negatively affected, and as long as it continues is expected to continue to negatively affect, our Merchant business. As a result of the factors noted above, for the Company as a whole, we expect 2023 revenue growth will be substantially slower than 2022, and we expect to experience margin compression in 2023 as compared to 2022. Over the longer term, we expect improvements in revenue growth and margins in response to improving economic conditions and planned management actions, including our Future Forward program discussed below. On February 13, 2023, we announced plans to spin off our Merchant Solutions business ("SpinCo"). We may retain a minority interest of up to 19.9% of SpinCo. The planned separation is intended to create two independent, publicly traded companies with enhanced strategic and operational focus and to enable more tailored capital allocation and investment decisions to unlock growth. While we believe the spin-off will be beneficial to both FIS and, following the spin, SpinCo, and therefore indirectly to our shareholders, it will result in some one-time costs and revenue and expense dis-synergies. The latter are expected to include higher interest expense as a result of replacing lower coupon FIS debt with higher coupon Merchant debt, in part due to expected credit ratings and the current interest rate environment. FIS and SpinCo are expected to maintain a commercial relationship to ensure continuity for clients. We expect the spin-off to be completed by early 2024. The proposed spin-off is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement with the 22 Table of Contents SEC, SpinCo's ability to raise new debt and obtaining of all required regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given that a spin-off will in fact occur, or that it will achieve the anticipated benefits, on our desired timetable or at all. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to the Planned Spin-Off of our Merchant Business" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. We anticipate that, in connection with the proposed spin-off, SpinCo will incur indebtedness and, immediately prior to the closing of the proposed spin-off, pay a cash dividend to FIS using proceeds of such indebtedness. The amount of any such dividend will depend upon SpinCos ability to raise new indebtedness which, in turn, will depend upon its historic and anticipated business, financial performance and liquidity as well as market conditions, credit ratings and other factors, some of which are outside our control. We intend to use the cash distributed to FIS by SpinCo from the dividend to reduce our indebtedness to a level consistent with our current investment grade credit ratings and for general corporate purposes, including paying for costs of the spin-off. We expect that our weighted average interest rate after the spin-off will be higher than it was as of March 31, 2023. In November 2022, we launched an enterprise-wide efficiency program, Future Forward, with a focus on streamlining operations, accelerating time to market of new solutions and improving profitability and cash flow. We are targeting cash savings from Future Forward of $1.25 billion by year-end 2024, consisting of $600 million of operating expense savings (run rate as of end of 2024), $300 million of capital expense savings (run rate as of end of 2024) and $350 million of cumulative savings by year-end 2024 from the reduction or elimination of acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses, in each case prior to the effects of the proposed spin-off of the Merchant Solutions business, which we believe will reduce the available savings. We continue to assist financial institutions in migrating to outsourced integrated technology solutions to improve their profitability and address increasing and ongoing regulatory requirements. As a provider of outsourced solutions, we benefit from multi-year recurring revenue streams, which help moderate the effects of broader year-to-year economic and market changes that otherwise might have a larger impact on our results of operations. We believe our integrated solutions and outsourced services are well-positioned to address this outsourcing trend across the markets we serve. We continue to invest in modernization, innovation and integrated solutions to meet the demands of the markets we serve and compete with global banks, financial and other technology providers, and emerging technology innovators. We invest both organically and through investment opportunities in companies building complementary technologies in the financial services space. Our internal efforts in research and development activities have related primarily to the modernization of our proprietary core systems in each of our segments, design and development of next-generation digital and innovative solutions and development of processing systems and related software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and existing software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients, and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. Consumer preference continues to shift from traditional branch banking services to digital banking solutions, and our clients seek to provide a single integrated banking experience through their branch, mobile, internet and voice banking channels. We have been providing our large regional banking customers in the U.S. with Digital One, an integrated digital banking platform, and are now adding functionality and offering Digital One to our community bank clients to provide a consistent, omnichannel experience for consumers of banking services across self-service channels like mobile banking and online banking, as well as supporting channels for bank staff operating in bank branches and contact centers. The uniform customer experience extends to support a broad range of financial services including opening new accounts, servicing of existing accounts, money movement, and personal financial management, as well as other consumer, small business and commercial banking capabilities. Digital One is integrated into several of the core banking platforms offered by FIS and is also offered to customers of non-FIS core banking systems. Consolidation within the banking industry has occurred and may continue, primarily in the form of merger and acquisition activity among financial institutions, which we believe would broadly be detrimental to the profitability of the financial technology industry. However, consolidation resulting from specific merger and acquisition transactions may be beneficial to our business. When consolidations of financial institutions occur, merger partners often operate systems obtained from competing service providers. The newly formed entity generally makes a determination to migrate its core and payments systems to a single platform. When a financial institution processing client is involved in a consolidation, we may benefit by their expanding the use of our solutions if such solutions are chosen to survive the consolidation and to support the newly combined entity. Conversely, we may lose revenue if we are providing solutions to both entities, or if a client of ours is involved in a consolidation and our solutions are not chosen to support the newly combined entity. It is also possible that larger 23 Table of Contents financial institutions resulting from consolidation may have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the solutions that we currently provide or could provide. We seek to mitigate the risks of consolidations by offering other competitive solutions to take advantage of specific opportunities at the surviving company. Recent U.S. bank failures could negatively impact our results to the extent more of our customers become illiquid; however, our current exposure to recent failures is limited, and we may be a long-term beneficiary of the recent disruption. As a leading provider of financial technology services to the top 100 U.S. banks by asset size as well as other global financial institutions, FIS boasts a highly diversified customer base, with no single customer accounting for more than approximately 1% of 2022 total Company revenue. With respect to U.S. financial institutions that closed in March 2023, FIS continues to provide services for these banks and is paid during their transition, and our revenue exposure from potential contract terminations related to these banks is nominal. Further, FIS' core banking customer contracts are generally structured with fees that increase based on the number of active accounts or transactions rather than the amount of deposits. Thus, to the extent account volume increases, we are positioned to benefit from this growth as a leading core banking services provider to large financial institutions. We continue to see demand in the payments market for innovative solutions that will deliver faster, more convenient payment options in mobile channels, internet applications, in-store cards, and digital currencies. The payment processing industry is adopting new technologies, developing new solutions, evolving new business models, and being affected by new market entrants and by an evolving regulatory environment. As merchants and financial institutions respond to these changes by seeking solutions to help them enhance their own offerings to consumers, including the ability to accept card-not-present ("CNP") payments in eCommerce and mobile environments as well as contactless cards and mobile wallets at the point of sale, FIS believes that payment processors will seek to develop additional capabilities in order to serve clients' evolving needs. To facilitate this expansion, we believe that payment processors will need to enhance their technology platforms so they can deliver these capabilities and differentiate their offerings from other providers. We believe that these market changes present both an opportunity and a risk for us, and we cannot predict which emerging technologies or solutions will be successful. However, FIS believes that payment processors, like FIS, that have scalable, integrated business models, provide solutions across the payment processing value chain and utilize broad distribution capabilities will be best-positioned to enable emerging alternative electronic payment technologies in the long term. Further, FIS believes that its depth of capabilities and breadth of distribution will enhance its position as emerging payment technologies are adopted by merchants and other businesses. FIS' ability to partner with non-financial institution enterprises, such as mobile payment providers and internet, retail and social media companies, continues to create attractive growth opportunities as these new entrants seek to become more active participants in the development of alternative electronic payment technologies and to facilitate the convergence of retail, online, mobile and social commerce applications. Globally, attacks on information technology systems, such as those operated by FIS, continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. We maintain significant focus on and investment in information security that is designed to mitigate threats to our systems and solutions. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and investment, we have developed and offer fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target the growth opportunity in the financial services industry. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no significant changes to our critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. 24 Table of Contents Consolidated Results of Operations - Comparisons of three-month periods ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Revenue $ 3,510 $ 3,492 $ 18 1 % Cost of revenue (2,169) (2,242) 73 (3) Gross profit 1,341 1,250 91 7 Gross profit margin 38 % 36 % Selling, general and administrative expenses (1,004) (1,035) 31 (3) Asset impairments (58) 58 NM Operating income $ 337 $ 157 180 115 Operating margin 10 % 4 % NM = Not meaningful Revenue Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023, increased primarily due to strong recurring revenue growth and professional services in Banking, increased Merchant volumes, and strong recurring growth in Capital Markets. Revenue was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Euro as compared to the prior-year period. See "Segment Results of Operations" below for more detailed explanation. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Profit Margin Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2023, decreased due to lower intangible asset amortization resulting primarily from foreign currency movements, partially offset by cost inflation, contributing to higher gross profit and gross profit margin. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2023, decreased primarily due to lower acquisition, integration and other costs, partially offset by cost inflation. Asset Impairments For the three months ended March 31, 2022, the Company recorded impairments of $58 million related primarily to real estate-related assets as a result of office space reductions. Operating Income and Operating Margin The change in operating income for the three months ended March 31, 2023, resulted from the revenue and cost variances noted above. The operating margin for the three months ended March 31, 2023, benefited from lower asset impairments and intangible asset amortization compared to the prior-year period. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change Other income (expense): (In millions) Interest expense, net $ (137) $ (43) $ (94) 219 % Other income (expense), net (11) 61 (72) NM Total other income (expense), net $ (148) $ 18 (166) NM NM = Not meaningful 25 Table of Contents The increase in interest expense, net during the three months ended March 31, 2023, was primarily due to higher interest rates on our debt and higher outstanding debt throughout the three months ended March 31, 2023, offset in part by increased interest income. Other income (expense), net includes the net change in fair value of the CVR-related preferred stock and CVR liability of $(3) million and $25 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Other income (expense), net also includes net gains (losses) on equity security investments without readily determinable fair values of $(2) million and $41 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 48 $ 54 $ (6) NM Effective tax rate 25 % 31 % NM = Not meaningful The decrease in the effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2023, was primarily due to the ratio of book to tax differences to pre-tax earnings. Segment Results of Operations - Comparisons of three-month periods ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 FIS reports its financial performance based on the following segments: Banking Solutions, Merchant Solutions, Capital Market Solutions, and Corporate and Other. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net earnings (loss) before net interest expense, net other income (expense), income tax provision (benefit), depreciation and amortization, and excludes certain costs and other transactions that management deems non-operational in nature or that otherwise improve the comparability of operating results across reporting periods by their exclusion. This measure is reported to the chief operating decision maker for purposes of making decisions about allocating resources to the segments and assessing their performance. For this reason, Adjusted EBITDA, as it relates to our segments, is presented in conformity with FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting. The items affecting the segment profit measure generally include purchase price amortization of acquired intangible assets as well as acquisition, integration and certain other costs and asset impairments. These costs and adjustments are recorded in the Corporate and Other segment for the periods discussed below. Adjusted EBITDA for the respective segments excludes the foregoing costs and adjustments. Financial information, including details of Adjusted EBITDA, for each of our segments is set forth in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Banking Solutions Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Revenue $ 1,685 $ 1,659 $ 26 2 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 676 $ 707 (31) (4) Adjusted EBITDA margin 40.1 % 42.6 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (250) Three months ended March 31: Recurring revenue contributed 3% to growth, primarily due to increased processing volumes. Professional services revenue contributed 1% to growth, and software license and other non-recurring revenue contributed (2%) to growth. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased as the revenue impacts noted above were offset by lower-margin revenue mix and cost inflation. 26 Table of Contents Merchant Solutions Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Revenue $ 1,105 $ 1,112 $ (7) (1) % Adjusted EBITDA $ 481 $ 522 (41) (8) Adjusted EBITDA margin 43.5 % 47.0 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change (350) Three months ended March 31: Revenue decreased primarily due to foreign currency movements versus the prior year. Global eCommerce volumes, including those related to our Payrix acquisition, contributed 5% to growth, Enterprise volumes contributed (2%) to growth and SMB volumes contributed (1%) to growth. Revenue was negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, which contributed (3%) to growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin decreased as the revenue impacts noted above were offset by lower-margin revenue mix and cost inflation. On February 13, 2023, we announced our plans to spin off the Merchant business, with the intention to create a new, publicly traded company. We expect the spin-off to be completed by early 2024. The proposed spin-off is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement with the SEC SpinCo's ability to raise new debt and obtaining of all required regulatory approvals. No assurance can be given that a spin-off will in fact occur on our desired timetable or at all. See "Business Trends and Conditions" in Item 2 of this Quarterly Report. Capital Market Solutions Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Revenue $ 663 $ 627 $ 36 6 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 320 $ 300 20 7 Adjusted EBITDA margin 48.2 % 47.9 % Adjusted EBITDA margin basis points change 30 Three months ended March 31: Revenue increased primarily due to recurring revenue contributing 8% to growth from strong new sales momentum. Professional services revenue contributed (1%) to growth. Revenue was also negatively impacted by unfavorable foreign currency movements, contributing (1%) to growth primarily related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling as compared to the prior-year period. Adjusted EBITDA increased primarily due to the revenue impacts noted above. Adjusted EBITDA margin increased primarily due to strong contribution margins from revenue growth. 27 Table of Contents Corporate and Other Three months ended March 31, $ % 2023 2022 Change Change (In millions) Revenue $ 57 $ 94 $ (37) (39) % Adjusted EBITDA $ (118) $ (111) (7) 6 The Corporate and Other segment results consist of selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and intangible asset amortization not otherwise allocated to the reportable segments. Corporate and Other also includes operations from certain non-strategic businesses. Three months ended March 31: Revenue decreased due to divestitures of non-strategic businesses in 2022 as well as client attrition in our non-strategic businesses.. Adjusted EBITDA decreased as a result of the revenue impacts noted above and higher corporate expenses, which were partially offset by foreign currency movements impacting corporate and infrastructure expenses related to a stronger U.S. Dollar versus the British Pound Sterling and Indian Rupee. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Requirements Our ongoing cash requirements include operating expenses, income taxes, tax receivable obligations, mandatory debt service payments, capital expenditures, stockholder dividends, regulatory requirements, working capital and timing differences in settlement-related assets and liabilities and may include discretionary debt repayments, share repurchases and business acquisitions. Our principal sources of funds are cash generated by operations and borrowings, including the capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility, the U.S. commercial paper program and the Euro-commercial paper program discussed in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2023, the Company had $4,847 million of available liquidity, including $1,871 million of cash and cash equivalents and $2,976 million of capacity available under its Revolving Credit Facility and Incremental Credit Facility. Approximately $1,056 million of cash and cash equivalents is held by our foreign entities, including amounts related to regulatory requirements. The majority of our domestic cash and cash equivalents relates to settlement payables and net deposits-in-transit, which are typically settled within a few business days. Debt outstanding totaled $20.0 billion, with an effective weighted average interest rate of 3.0%. We believe that our current level of cash and cash equivalents plus cash flows from operations will be sufficient to fund our operating cash requirements, capital expenditures and mandatory debt service payments for the next 12 months and the foreseeable future. In January 2023, the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.52 per share beginning with the first quarter of 2023. A regular quarterly dividend of $0.52 per common share is payable on June 23, 2023, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on June 9, 2023. We currently expect to continue to pay quarterly dividends at a target payout ratio consistent with our previously announced capital allocation strategy. However, the amount, declaration and payment of future dividends is at the discretion of the Board of Directors and depends on, among other things, our investment opportunities (including potential mergers and acquisitions), results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors, including legal and contractual restrictions, that may be considered relevant by our Board of Directors. Additionally, the payment of cash dividends may be limited by covenants in certain debt agreements. In January 2021, our Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program under which it authorized the Company to repurchase up to 100 million shares of our common stock at management's discretion from time to time on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and through Rule 10b5-1 plans. The share repurchase program has no expiration date and may be suspended for periods, amended or discontinued at any time. Approximately 64 million shares remained available for repurchase as of March 31, 2023. Our current plan for 2023 is to reorient our use of excess cash flow from share repurchases to 28 Table of Contents debt reduction, in part given our outlook for business trends in 2023. Although we continue to evaluate the optimal capital structure for our Merchant business following the proposed spin-off, we intend to maintain investment grade debt ratings for FIS. The spin-off will also result in significant one-time costs that we will be required to fund. Cash Flows from Operations Cash flows from operations were $632 million and $896 million for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Our net cash provided by operating activities consists primarily of net earnings, adjusted to add back depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items. Cash flows from operations decreased $264 million in the three-month period ended March 31, 2023, primarily due to a decrease in net earnings after adjusting to add back depreciation and other non-cash items and to working capital timing. Capital Expenditures and Other Investing Activities Our principal capital expenditures are for software (purchased and internally developed) and additions to property and equipment. We invested approximately $279 million and $412 million in capital expenditures (excluding other financing obligations for certain hardware and software) during the three-month periods ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We expect to continue investing in property and equipment, purchased software and internally developed software to support our business. During the three-month periods ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we (paid) received approximately $(10) million and $135 million of net cash reflected as investing activities due to the settlement of existing cross-currency interest rate swaps. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In January 2023, the Founders of Virtus exercised their put option, and as a result, FIS paid the $173 million redemption value, recorded as a financing activity in the consolidated statement of cash flows. Financing For more information regarding the Company's debt and financing activity, see "Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Indebtedness" in Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2023, and "