Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Trends and Conditions . " 3 Table of Contents Revenue by Segment The table below summarizes our revenue by reporting segment (in millions): 2022 2021 2020 Banking Solutions $ 6,706 $ 6,396 $ 5,944 Merchant Solutions 4,773 4,496 3,767 Capital Market Solutions 2,763 2,624 2,440 Corporate and Other 286 361 401 Total Consolidated Revenue $ 14,528 $ 13,877 $ 12,552 Banking Solutions ("Banking") The Banking segment is focused on serving financial institutions of all sizes with core processing software, transaction processing software and complementary applications and services, many of which interact directly with core processing software. We sell these solutions on either a bundled or stand-alone basis. Clients in this segment include global financial institutions, U.S. regional and community banks, credit unions and commercial lenders, as well as government institutions and other commercial organizations. Banking serves clients in more than 100 countries. We provide our clients integrated solutions characterized by multi-year processing contracts that generate recurring revenue. The predictable nature of cash flows generated from the Banking segment provides opportunities for further investments in innovation, integration, information and security, and compliance in a cost-effective manner. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Core Processing and Ancillary Applications. Our core processing software applications are designed to run banking processes for our financial institution clients, including deposit and lending systems, customer management, and other central management systems. Clients use these applications to maintain the primary records of their customer accounts. Our diverse selection of market-focused core processing software applications enables FIS to compete effectively in a wide range of markets. We continue to invest in our core modernization efforts to further differentiate our offerings for the long term. We also offer a number of solutions that are ancillary to the primary applications listed above, including branch automation, back-office support systems and compliance support. Digital, including Mobile and Online. Our comprehensive suite of retail and commercial applications enables financial institutions to streamline and integrate customer-facing operations with back-office processes, thereby improving customer experience across channels (e.g., branch, internet, mobile, ATM, and call centers). FIS' focus on real-time consumer access has driven significant market innovation in multi-channel, API-enabled embedded and multi-hosted solutions, underpinned by a strategy that provides tight integration and a seamless customer experience. Our innovative digital banking capabilities are now available to financial institutions of all sizes with continually expanding functionality. Our digital offerings are integrated with core banking platforms offered by FIS and are also offered to customers of non-FIS core systems. Fraud, Risk Management and Compliance. Our decision solutions offer a spectrum of options that cover the account lifecycle from helping to identify qualified account applicants to managing existing customer accounts and fraud. Our applications enable Know Your Customer, new account decisioning and opening, account and transaction management, fraud management and collections. Our risk management solutions use our proprietary risk management models and data sources to assist in detecting fraud and assessing the risk of opening a new account. Our systems use a combination of advanced authentication procedures, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence modeling and proprietary and shared databases to assess and detect fraud risk for deposit, card and other transactions for financial institutions. Card and Retail Payments. Our card and retail payment technology solutions allow clients to issue VISA , MasterCard or other payment network-branded credit and debit cards or other electronic payment cards for use by both consumer and business accounts. Card-based volumes continue to increase, driven by both the number of transactions per month and the value of those transactions. We offer EMV (Europay, MasterCard and Visa) integrated circuit cards, often referred to as chip cards, as well as a variety of stored-value card types and loyalty programs, including our Premium Payback service that allows our financial institutions' customers to use loyalty points at a variety of merchant point-of-sale systems. Our integrated solutions range from card production and activation to processing to an extensive range of fraud management solutions and value-added loyalty programs designed to 4 Table of Contents increase card usage and fee-based revenue for financial institutions and merchants. The majority of our programs are full service, including most of the operations and support necessary for an issuer to operate a credit card program. We do not make credit decisions for our card issuing clients. We are also a leading provider of prepaid card solutions, which include digital cards, gift cards and reloadable cards, with end-to-end solutions for development, processing and administration of stored-value programs, including government benefit programs. Our closed-loop gift card solutions and loyalty programs provide merchants compelling solutions to drive consumer loyalty. Electronic Funds Transfer and Network. Our electronic funds transfer and debit card processing businesses offer settlement and card management solutions for financial institution card issuers. We provide traditional ATM-based debit network access through NYCE, other branded networks, and emerging real-time payment alternatives. Our networks connect millions of cards and point-of-sale locations nationwide, providing consumers with secure, real-time access to their money. Also through our networks, clients such as financial institutions, retailers and independent ATM operators can capitalize on the efficiency, consumer convenience and security of electronic real-time payments, real-time account-to-account transfers, and strategic alliances such as surcharge-free ATM network arrangements. Wealth and Retirement. We provide wealth and retirement solutions that help banks, trust companies, brokerage firms, insurance firms, retirement plan professionals, benefit administrators and independent advisors acquire, service and grow their client relationships. We provide solutions for client acquisition, transaction management, trust accounting and recordkeeping that can be deployed stand-alone, as part of an integrated wealth or retirement platform, or on an outsourced basis. Item Processing and Output Solutions. Our item processing solutions furnish financial institutions with the technology needed to capture data from checks, transaction tickets and other items; image and sort items; process exceptions through keying; and perform balancing, archiving and the production of statements. Our item processing services are performed at one of our multiple item processing centers located throughout the U.S. or on-site at client locations. Our extensive solutions include distributed (i.e., non-centralized) data capture, mobile deposit capture, check and remittance processing, fraud detection, and document and report management. Clients encompass banks and corporations of all sizes, from de novo banks to the largest financial institutions and corporations. We offer a number of output solutions that are ancillary to the primary solutions we provide, including print and mail capabilities, document composition software and solutions, and card personalization fulfillment solutions. Our print and mail solutions offer complete computer output solutions for the creation, management and delivery of print and fulfillment needs. We provide our card personalization fulfillment solutions for branded credit cards and branded and non-branded debit and prepaid cards. Merchant Solutions ("Merchant") The Merchant segment is focused on serving merchants of all sizes globally, enabling them to accept, authorize and settle electronic payment transactions. Merchant includes all aspects of payment processing, including value-added solutions, such as security, fraud prevention, advanced data analytics, foreign currency management and numerous funding options. Merchant serves clients in over 100 countries. Our Merchant clients are highly diversified, including global enterprises, national retailers and small- to medium-sized businesses ("SMB"). The Merchant segment utilizes broad and varied distribution channels, including direct sales forces and multiple referral partner relationships that provide us with access to new and existing markets. Our solutions in this segment include the following: SMB. Our SMB acquiring solutions primarily focus on North American clients with less than $5 million in annual revenue. We offer these clients payment acceptance through our software partners or direct integration. Distributing our merchant acquiring capabilities through a variety of sales channels enables us to serve a diversity of industry verticals and sub-verticals. Enterprise. Our enterprise acquiring solutions primarily focus on enabling both card-present and omni-channel payment acceptance for North American clients with more than $5 million in annual revenue as well as all international clients. Global eCommerce. Our global eCommerce solutions primarily provide card-not-present merchant acquiring capabilities to digitally focused merchants that primarily sell their goods and services online. Our platforms enable both domestic and international capabilities, providing a customizable and scalable solution to our clients with best-in-class authorization rates. 5 Table of Contents On February 13, 2023, we announced our plans to spin off the Merchant business ("Spin-Co"), with the intention to create a new, publicly traded company. We expect the spin-off to be completed within the next 12 months. The proposed spin-off is subject to customary conditions, including final approval by our Board of Directors, receipt of a tax opinion and a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service, the filing and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement with the SEC and obtaining of all required regulatory approvals. Through this transaction, FIS shareholders would receive a pro rata distribution of shares of SpinCo stock in a transaction that is expected to be tax-free to FIS and its shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The actual number of shares to be distributed to FIS shareholders will be determined prior to closing, as will the specific transaction structure. No assurance can be given that a spin-off will in fact occur on our desired timetable or at all. See "Risk FactorsRisks Related to the Planned Spin-Off of our Merchant Business" in Item 1A of this Annual Report and "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsBusiness Trends and Conditions." Capital Market Solutions ("Capital Markets") The Capital Markets segment is focused on serving global financial services institutions. Clients in this segment operate in more than 100 countries and include asset managers and servicers, securities brokerage and trading firms, insurers, private equity firms, and other commercial and corporate organizations. Our solutions include a variety of mission-critical applications for recordkeeping, treasury, data and analytics, order management and trading, securities processing and financing, and risk and compliance. Capital Markets clients purchase our solutions in various ways including via a recurring subscription model or software as a service (SaaS) where the technology is cloud-hosted and managed by FIS, licensing and managing technology "in-house," and through business process as a service (BPaaS) relationships, where Capital Markets manages both the software and select managed services for the client. Our long-established relationships with many of these financial and commercial institutions generate significant recurring revenue. We have made, and continue to make, investments in modern platforms and advanced technologies like machine learning, artificial intelligence, and blockchain, as well as open application programming interfaces (APIs) and regulatory technology. Our solutions in this segment include the following: Investment Operations and Data Services . We offer solutions that support institutional investors and asset managers across all asset classes, including private equity, hedge, credit, and traditional, in addition to fund administrators and securities transfer agents. These solutions improve both investment decision making and operational efficiency while managing risk and increasing transparency. Our investment operations solutions support every stage of the investment process, from research and portfolio management to order and position management, valuation, risk management, corporate actions, reconciliation, investment accounting, transfer agency and client reporting. Lending . Our lending solutions offer full life-cycle commercial lending functionality from loan origination, commercial credit assessment and customer risk rating to loan servicing and data analytics. We also offer the leveraged and syndicated loan markets solutions that manage amendments, secondary market trading, deal management and bookrunning. In the Asset Finance space, we offer a single, end-to-end leasing platform that helps Auto and Equipment Finance companies manage the entire financing process, supporting origination and pricing, credit decisioning, contract management, servicing and collections. Trading and Processing . Solutions in this space help financial institutions increase the efficiency, transparency and control of their front-to-back-office trading operations, post-trade processing and settlement. These offerings provide advanced trade life-cycle management, including market making and risk management, cleared derivatives processing, securities processing and securities finance for the broker-dealer community, tax processing, and regulatory compliance, including anti-money laundering (AML) and trade surveillance. Treasury and Risk. Our treasury solutions help chief financial officers and treasurers manage working capital by reducing risk and improving communication and response time between a company's buyers, suppliers, banks, and other stakeholders. Our end-to-end financial management framework helps bring together receivables, treasury, and payments for a single view of cash and risk, which helps our clients optimize business processes for enhanced liquidity management. Our risk portfolio of solutions manages market and credit risk and regulatory compliance for banks and actuarial risk for insurance firms. Corporate and Other The Corporate and Other segment consists of corporate overhead expense, certain leveraged functions and miscellaneous expenses that are not included in the operating segments, as well as certain non-strategic businesses that we plan to wind down 6 Table of Contents or sell. The overhead and leveraged costs relate to corporate marketing, corporate finance and accounting, human resources, legal, compliance and amortization of acquisition-related intangibles and other costs, such as acquisition, integration and transformation-related expenses, that are not considered when management evaluates revenue-generating segment performance. Sales and Marketing Our sales personnel have expertise in particular solutions and markets as well as across our various client segments. We believe that focusing our expertise on clients in specific markets and tailoring integrated solution sets to participants in those markets enables us to better serve our clients and makes our offerings more attractive to prospects. We target the majority of our prospects via direct and/or indirect field sales, as well as inbound and outbound lead generation, telesales and virtual sales efforts. Our global marketing team develops and leads the execution of global, industry-specific and geographic-based strategic marketing plans in support of the segments' reputation and relationship building goals in addition to their revenue and profitability goals. Key components of our strategic plans include brand amplification and digital enablement; market and competitive research; voice of the customer and client engagement; thought leadership; integrated go-to-market programs; internal communications and readiness; journalists and social media engagement, industry analyst relations; client events; trade shows; high-touch client programs; demand generation campaigns; account- and deal-based marketing programs; collateral development and management across digital and online channels; and the launch of new products to market. Patents, Copyrights, Trademarks and Other Intellectual Property In general, we own the intellectual property and proprietary rights that are necessary to conduct our business and are important to our future success, including trademarks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We license certain items from third parties under arms-length agreements for varying terms, including some "open source" licenses. We rely on a combination of contractual restrictions, internal security practices, patents, trade secrets, copyrights and applicable law to establish and protect our software, technology and expertise worldwide. We rely on trademark law to protect our rights in our brands. We intend to continue taking appropriate measures to protect our intellectual property rights, including by legal action when necessary and appropriate. Competition The markets for our solutions are intensely competitive. Depending on the business line, our primary competitors include, but are not limited to, internal technology or software development departments within financial institutions or other large companies, merchant acquirers, global eCommerce providers, global and regional companies providing payment services, third-party payment processors, payment facilitators, embedded payment solution providers, securities exchanges, asset managers, card associations, clearing networks or associations, trust companies, independent computer services firms, companies that develop and deploy software applications, companies owned by global banks selling new competitive solutions, companies that provide customized development, implementation and support services, emerging technology innovators, and business process outsourcing companies. Many of these companies compete with us across multiple solutions, markets and geographies. Some of these competitors possess greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do. Competitive factors impacting the success of our solutions include the quality of the technology-based application or service, application features and functions, ease of delivery and integration, the ability to maintain, enhance and support the applications or solutions, price and overall relationship management. We believe that we compete vigorously in each of these categories. In addition, we believe our domain expertise, combined with our ability to offer multiple applications, services and integrated solutions, enhances our competitiveness against companies with more limited offerings. Our ability to innovate and scale digital payments and solutions has been a competitive advantage as well. Research and Development Our research and development activities primarily relate to the modernization of our proprietary core processing software applications and the design and development of next generation digital solutions, processing systems, software applications and risk management platforms. We expect to continue our practice of investing an appropriate level of resources to maintain, enhance and extend the functionality of our proprietary systems and software applications, to develop new and innovative software applications and systems to address emerging technology trends in response to the needs of our clients and to enhance the capabilities of our outsourcing infrastructure. In addition, we intend to offer solutions compatible with new and emerging delivery channels. 7 Table of Contents As part of our research and development process, we evaluate current and emerging technology for compatibility with our existing and future software platforms. To this end, we engage with various hardware and software vendors in the evaluation of various new and existing technologies. Where appropriate, we use third-party technology components in the development of our software applications and service offerings. We typically utilize enterprise license agreements or strive to ensure that either alternative suppliers or transfer rights exist in order to ensure the continuity of supply of third-party technology components used in the development of our software applications and service offerings. As a result, we are not materially dependent upon any third-party technology components. Third-party software may be used for highly specialized business functions depending on our ability to develop the functionality internally within time and budget constraints. Additionally, third-party software may be used for routine, commonplace functions within a technology platform environment. We work with our clients to determine the appropriate timing and approach to introduce technology or infrastructure changes to our solutions. Government Regulation Our solutions are subject to a broad range of complex federal, state, and international regulations and requirements, as well as requirements under the rules of self-regulatory organizations including, without limitation, federal truth-in-lending and truth-in-savings rules, federal, state and international money transmission laws, state cybersecurity protection laws, data protection and privacy laws, usury laws, laws governing state trust charters, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Bank Service Company Act, the Bank Secrecy Act, the USA Patriot Act, the U.K. Criminal Finances Act, the EU 6th Anti-Money Laundering Directive ('EU 6th AMLD"), the Internal Revenue Code, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Community Reinvestment Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the "Dodd-Frank Act"), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Investment Advisors Act of 1940 (the "1940 Act"), anti-corruption laws including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "FCPA")and the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 (the "U.K. Bribery Act"), the rules and regulations of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority ("FINRA"), the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ("FFIEC"), the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB"), the Financial Conduct Authority in the U.K. ("FCA"), the Payment Systems Regulator in the U.K. ("PSR"), De Nederlandsche Bank ("DNB") in the Netherlands, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan ("METI"), Bank Negara in Malaysia and state financial services regulators (including enforcement of state cybersecurity laws). The compliance of our solutions with these and other applicable laws and regulations depends on a variety of factors, including the manner in which our clients use them. In some cases, we are directly subject to regulatory oversight and examination. In other cases, our clients are contractually responsible for determining what is required of them under applicable laws and regulations and utilize our solutions to achieve compliance with those laws and regulations. In either case, the failure of our solutions to comply with applicable laws and regulations may result in suspension or revocation of permission-based regulatory licenses, restrictions on our ability to provide those solutions, the imposition of civil fines and/or criminal penalties, and/or reputational damage. Further, regulatory authorities have the power to, among other things, enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices, require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice, issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced and direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets. We may be adversely affected by increased regulatory scrutiny or related negative publicity. The principal areas of regulation impacting our business are the following: Oversight by Banking Regulators. As a provider of electronic data processing and back-office services to financial institutions, FIS is subject to regulatory oversight and examination by the FFIEC, an interagency body of federal banking regulators including the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC"), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ("OCC"), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("FRB"), the National Credit Union Administration ("NCUA") (collectively, the Federal Banking Agencies or "FBA") and the CFPB, as part of the Multi-Regional Data Processing Servicer ("MDPS") program. The MDPS program includes technology suppliers that provide mission-critical applications for a large number of financial institutions that are regulated by multiple regulatory agencies. Periodic information technology examination assessments are performed using FFIEC Interagency guidelines to identify potential risks that could adversely affect serviced financial institutions, determine compliance with applicable laws and regulations that affect the services provided to financial institutions and ensure the solutions we provide to financial institutions do not create systemic risk to the banking system or impact the safe and sound operation of the financial institutions for which we process. In addition, independent auditors annually review several of our operations to provide reports on internal controls for our clients. We are also subject to review and examination by state and international regulatory authorities under state and foreign laws and rules that regulate many of the same activities that are described above, including electronic data processing, payments and back-office services for financial institutions and the use of consumer information. 8 Table of Contents Our U.S.-based wealth and retirement business holds a charter in the state of Georgia which makes us subject to the regulatory compliance requirements of the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. As a result, we are also authorized to provide trust services in various additional states subject to additional applicable state regulations. Payment Services Oversight. Our payment services business is a technology service provider to U.S. financial institutions and is, therefore, subject to oversight and examination by the FFIEC. Our payment services businesses are also subject to regulation, supervision, and enforcement authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies in the jurisdictions in which they operate, which include the CFPB, the DNB in the Netherlands, the METI in Japan, Bank Negara in Malaysia and the FCA and the PSR in the U.K. These various regulatory regimes require compliance in respect of many aspects of our payment services business including without limitation corporate governance and oversight functions, capital requirements, liquidity, safeguarding, fee regulation adherence, technology and cyber resilience, anti-money laundering and sanctions. Because the PSR is an economic regulator in the U.K., it has the power to apply remedies in relation to the functioning of the card acquiring market in the U.K. The European Commission also has overall authority to enforce and establish new standards or guidance which may require banks and authorized payments providers in our Merchant business to modify current pricing and fee structures in the European Union ("E.U."). Anti-Money Laundering. The Company is subject to, both directly and indirectly, various anti-money laundering laws and regulations such as the Bank Secrecy Act in the United States and the Criminal Finances Act 2017 in the U.K. These laws, among other requirements, impose obligations to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, file regulatory reports on large cash transactions and suspicious activity and collect and maintain certain records related to customers and transactions. Many U.S. states have similar laws that overlap with, and in some cases diverge from, U.S. federal and international laws. While these federal, state and international laws are broadly consistent, there may be circumstances where the requirements of a particular jurisdiction conflict with those of other jurisdictions. As these laws continue to develop and expand, our investment in compliance with these laws continues to grow as does the cost of ongoing compliance. Sanctions: The Company is subject to certain U.S. federal, state and international economic and trade sanctions programs such as those that are administered by the U.S. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (referred to as "OFAC"), which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, specified countries and regions, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals, narcotics traffickers, and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Similar programs exist in a number of other jurisdictions, most notably the Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation (OFSI) in the U.K., European Union Sanctions, and United Nations Sanctions. We have implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with economic sanctions programs. Those policies and procedures require the screening of third parties with which the Company does business, including clients and vendors and transactions where appropriate. Anti-Corruption. The Company is subject to applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act, in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Anti-corruption laws generally prohibit offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a government official or private party in order to influence official action or otherwise to gain an unfair business advantage, such as to obtain or retain business. The Company has implemented policies, procedures, training and internal controls that are designed to comply with such laws, rules and regulations. Privacy and Data Protection. The Company is subject to an increasing number of privacy and data protection laws, regulations and directives globally, including the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the European Union ("EU"); the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act (VCDPA), the Colorado Privacy Act (CPA), the Connecticut Personal Data Privacy and Online Monitoring Act (CTDPA), the Utah Consumer Privacy Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the United States; the United Kingdoms General Data Protection Regulation (UK GDPR) and Data Protection Act 2018; the General Personal Data Protection Act (LGPD) in Brazil; the China Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL); and the Japanese Act on the Protection of Personal Information (APPI) (referred to collectively as "Privacy Laws"). Many of these Privacy Laws place restrictions on the Company's ability to efficiently transfer, access and use personal data across its business. The legislative and regulatory landscape for privacy and data protection continues to evolve. 9 Table of Contents Our financial institution clients operating in the U.S. are required to comply with privacy regulations imposed under the GLBA and numerous similar state laws. GLBA and those state laws place restrictions on the use of non-public personal information. All financial institutions must disclose detailed privacy policies to their customers and offer them the opportunity to direct the financial institution not to share information with third parties. The regulations under GLBA, however, permit financial institutions to share information with non-affiliated parties who perform services for the financial institutions. As a provider of solutions to financial institutions, we are required to comply with the Privacy Laws and are bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information received from our clients as apply to the financial institutions themselves. A determination that there have been violations of Privacy Laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business and reputation. Certain operations of the Company are also subject to the newer, comprehensive, U.S. state-level Privacy Laws that provide consumers with additional data protection rights, including the right to be informed about the personal information collected by third parties and the use of that personal information, and which also impose obligations on companies in connection with the use of personal information. The Company is subject to the E.U.s GDPR, which applies to all organizations processing the personal data of individuals in the E.U., regardless of where such organization is based. The GDPR has heightened our privacy and data protection compliance obligations, impacted our businesses' collection, processing and retention of personal data and imposed stricter standards for reporting data breaches. Oversight by Securities Regulators. Our subsidiary that conducts our broker-dealer business in the U.S. is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC, is a member of FINRA, and is registered as a broker-dealer in numerous states. Our broker-dealer is subject to regulation and oversight by the SEC. In addition, FINRA, a self-regulatory organization that is subject to oversight by the SEC, adopts and enforces rules governing the conduct, and examines the activities, of its member firms, including our broker-dealer. State securities regulators and various exchanges, including the New York Stock Exchange, also have regulatory or oversight authority over our broker-dealer. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, public and private securities offerings, use and safekeeping of customers' funds and securities, capital structure, record keeping, the financing of customers' purchases and the conduct and qualifications of directors, officers and employees. In particular, as a registered broker-dealer and member of a self-regulatory organization, we are subject to the SEC's uniform net capital rule, Rule 15c3-1. Rule 15c3-1 specifies the minimum level of net capital a broker-dealer must maintain and also requires that a significant part of a broker-dealer's assets be kept in relatively liquid form. The SEC and various self-regulatory organizations impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, limit the ratio of subordinated debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the SEC's uniform net capital rule imposes certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to the SEC for certain withdrawals of capital. Our subsidiaries also include an SEC-registered transfer agent. Our registered transfer agent is subject to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. These laws and regulations generally grant the SEC and other supervisory bodies broad administrative powers to address non-compliance with regulatory requirements. Sanctions that may be imposed for non-compliance with these requirements include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on engaging in certain activities for specified periods of time or for specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and significant fines. Subsidiaries engaged in activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For example, pursuant to the U.K. Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 ("FSMA"), certain of our subsidiaries are subject to regulations promulgated and administered by the FCA. The FSMA and rules promulgated thereunder govern all aspects of the U.K. investment business, including sales, research and trading practices, provision of investment advice, use and safekeeping of client funds and securities, regulatory capital, recordkeeping, margin practices and procedures, approval standards for individuals, anti-money laundering, periodic reporting and settlement procedures. Money Transfer. Elements of our cash access and money transmission businesses are registered as a Money Services Business and are subject to various federal, state and international laws governing money transmission, including but not limited to the USA PATRIOT Act and reporting requirements of the Bank Secrecy Act, the U.K. Criminal Finances Act and the EU 6th AMLD as well as various U.S. federal, state and international sanctions requirements. These businesses may also be subject to certain state and local licensing requirements. The Financial Crimes 10 Table of Contents Enforcement Network, state attorneys general, and other agencies have enforcement responsibility over laws relating to money laundering, currency transmission, and licensing. In applicable states, we have obtained money transmitter licenses. However, changes to state money transmission laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements, may result in the need for additional or expanded money transmitter licenses, additional capital allocations or changes in the way in which we deliver certain solutions. Consumer Reporting and Protection. Our decision solutions subsidiary, ChexSystems, maintains a database of consumer information used to provide various account ope ning services including credit scoring analysis and is subject to the Federal Fair Credit Reporting Act ("FCRA") and similar state laws. The FCRA regulates consumer reporting agencies ("CRAs"), including ChexSystems, and governs the accuracy, fairness, and privacy of information in the files of CRAs that engage in the practice of assembling or evaluating certain information relating to consumers for certain specified purposes. CRAs are required to follow reasonable procedures to assure maximum possible accuracy of information concerning the individual about whom the report relates and, if a consumer disputes the accuracy of any information in the consumer's file, to conduct a reasonable investigation within statutory timelines. The FCRA imposes many other requirements on CRAs and users of consumer report information. Regulatory enforcement of the FCRA is under the purview of the United States Federal Trade Commission , the CFPB, and state attorneys general, acting alone or in concert with one another. CRAs are also regulated by a number of states, including New York, with consumer reporting laws that are not pre-empted by the FCRA. In furtherance of our objectives of data accuracy, fair treatment of consumers, protection of consumers' personal information, and compliance with these laws, we have made considerable investment to maintain a high level of security for our computer systems in which consumer data resides, and we maintain consumer relations call centers to facilitate accurate and timely handling of consumer requests for information and handling disputes. We also are focused on ensuring our operating environments safeguard and protect consumer's personal information in compliance with these laws. Our consumer reporting and consumer-facing businesses are subject to CFPB Bulletin 2013-7 (a successor to the former Regulation AA - Unfair Deceptive Acts or Practices), which defines Unfair, Deceptive or Abusive Acts or Practices ("UDAAP"). This specific bulletin states that UDAAPs can cause significant financial injury to consumers, erode consumer confidence, and undermine fair competition in the financial marketplace. Original creditors and other covered persons and service providers under the Dodd-Frank Act involved in collecting debt related to any consumer financial product or service are subject to the prohibition against UDAAPs in the Dodd-Frank Act. Debt Collection. Our collection services are subject to the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and various state collection laws and licensing requirements. The Federal Trade Commission, as well as state attorneys general and other agencies, have enforcement responsibility over the collection laws, as well as the various credit reporting laws. The foregoing list of laws and regulations to which our Company is subject is not exhaustive, and the regulatory framework governing our operations changes continuously. Enactment of new laws and regulations may increasingly affect the operations of our business, directly and indirectly, which could result in substantial regulatory compliance costs, litigation expense, adverse publicity, and/or loss of revenue. Information Security As part of our business, we electronically receive, process, store and transmit a wide range of confidential information, including sensitive customer information and personal consumer data. We also operate payment, cash access and prepaid card systems. Globally, attacks on information technology systems, such as those operated by FIS, continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication. This is a trend we expect to continue. Such attacks have become a point of focus for individuals, businesses and governmental entities. The objectives of these attacks include, among other things, gaining unauthorized access to systems to facilitate financial fraud, disrupt operations, cause denial of service events, corrupt data, and steal non-public information. These circumstances present both a threat and an opportunity for FIS. We maintain significant focus on and investment in information security that is designed to mitigate threats to our systems and solutions. Through the expertise we have gained with this ongoing focus and investment, we have developed and offer fraud, security, risk management and compliance solutions to target the growth opportunity in the financial services industry. FIS remains focused on making additional strategic investments in information security to protect our clients and our information systems. This includes investments in FIS defense-in-depth strategy utilizing best in class perimeter, remote access, endpoint, and identity controls along with investments in the FIS Cyber Fusion Center which provides 24x7x365 cybersecurity monitoring and incident response. 11 Table of Contents Human Capital Management Employee Population As of December 31, 2022 , we had more than 69,000 employees, including over 45,000 employees principally employed outside of the U.S. None of our U.S. workforce currently is unionized. Approximately 11,000 of our employees, primarily in Brazil and Europe, are represented by labor unions or works councils. Health and Safety The health and safety of our employees is a key priority. In 2021, we hired our first ever Global Head of Well-Being to lead our efforts related to all aspects of employee wellness physical, mental, social, and financial. Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, we leveraged our company-wide Pandemic Plan and Crisis Management team to ensure we cared for the needs of our employees. We continue to follow safety protocols and procedures throughout our facilities. In addition, for employees who were impacted by COVID-19, we provided enhanced paid time off to deal with personal illness or to care for family members, and we expanded FIS Cares, a colleague-funded giving program designed to help our employees in times of need, from a U.S. program to a global one to assist more of our colleagues. Corporate Culture / Inclusion and Diversity Our culture stems from embracing our corporate values as we work together to win as one team, lead with integrity and strive to 'be the change' for our colleagues, clients and communities. The Company believes that inclusion and diversity are at the core of our corporate values. The diversity of our workforce helps us use our collective strengths to innovate and deliver the best solutions for our clients. Our Board of Directors and senior leaders are united in championing inclusion and diversity within our workforce through their leadership in prioritizing equality and diversity in our human resource decision making throughout the Company. Oversight of the FIS Inclusion & Diversity strategy is led by the Chief Inclusion & Diversity Officer and championed by an Enterprise Inclusion & Diversity Council chaired by the Chief People Officer and includes participation and leadership of senior executives of the Company . Further, the Company sponsors Inclusion Networks, which are led by employees who share common backgrounds and experiences. These groups support their members while promoting the Company's overall goal of fostering an inclusive work environment. Current FIS Inclusion Networks include Women, Asian, Black, Latinx, Disability, LGBTQ+, Rising Professionals, Veterans, and Working Families. The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief People Officer regularly update the Company's Board of Directors on human capital management and inclusion and diversity initiatives. Talent Management Along with our clients and communities, our people are primary stakeholders in our organization, and so we place a strategic priority on developing our talent and fostering a culture aligned with our corporate values and in which colleagues receive the support needed to grow their careers. Our talent development program provides an enterprise-wide, systematic foundation for career development tied to learning paths that enable skills acquisition. Our talent practices are based on a future-focused development approach to equip FIS colleagues and leaders with the skills required to enable business growth and exceed the needs of our clients. Our employees have a learning roadmap to Build our Leaders of Tomorrow which is supported by access to an extensive selection of online self-paced learning resources, virtual instructor-led and face-to-face development offerings, and targeted development programs for high-potential and senior management employees. We engage in executive-level succession planning and provide extensive opportunities to apply for open roles within the Company. Our talent development practices are underpinned by a comprehensive performance feedback culture that includes robust performance reviews. We have also invested in our hiring program for recent college graduates, who are critical to building our pipeline of future leaders, and have implemented a program to help eligible participants pay down their college tuition debt. Available Information Our website address is www.fisglobal.com. We make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available, free of charge, on that website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file or furnish them to the SEC. Our Corporate Governance Policy and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics are also available on our website and are available in print, free of charge, to any shareholder who mails a request to the Corporate Secretary, Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., 347 Riverside Avenue, Jacksonville, FL 32202 12 Table of Contents USA. Other corporate governance-related documents can be found at our website as well. However, the information found on our website is not a part of this or any other report. Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the normal risks of business, we are subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including those listed below and others described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the risks described herein could result in a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Security breaches, privacy breaches, cyber attacks, or our failure to comply with information security laws or regulations or industry security requirements, could harm our business by disrupting delivery of services and damaging the reputation of FIS and could result in a breach of one or more client contracts. Cybersecuity is fundamental to FIS' global, complex business. FIS electronically receives, processes, stores and transmits sensitive business information of its clients. In addition, FIS collects personal consumer data, such as names and addresses, social security numbers, driver's license numbers, cardholder data and payment history records. Such information is necessary to support our clients' transaction processing and to conduct our check authorization and collection businesses. The uninterrupted operation of information systems, as well as the confidentiality of the customer/consumer information that resides on such systems, is critical to the successful operation of FIS. For that reason, cybersecurity is one of the principal operational risks FIS faces as a provider of services to financial institutions. If FIS fails to maintain an adequate security infrastructure, adapt to emerging security threats, or implement sufficient security standards and technology to protect against security breaches, the confidentiality of the information FIS secures could be compromised. Unauthorized access to the computer systems or databases of FIS could result in the theft or publication of confidential information, the deletion or modification of records, damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, or otherwise cause interruptions in FIS' operations and damage to its reputation. These risks are greater with increased information transmission over the internet, the increasing level of sophistication posed by cyber criminals, nation state-sponsored cyber attacks and the integration of FIS systems with those of acquired companies. As a provider of services to financial institutions and a provider of card processing services, FIS is bound by the same limitations on disclosure of the information FIS receives from clients as apply to the clients themselves. If FIS fails to comply with these regulations and industry security requirements, it could be exposed to damages from legal actions from clients and/or their customers, governmental proceedings, governmental notice requirements, and the imposition of significant fines or prohibitions on card processing services. FIS is a highly regulated entity and is subject to a myriad of complex, evolving regulations, including cybersecurity regulations. In addition, if more restrictive privacy laws, rules or industry security requirements are adopted in the future on the federal or state level, or by a specific industry body, they could have an adverse impact on FIS through increased costs or restrictions on business processes. Any inability to prevent security or privacy breaches, or the perception that such breaches may occur, could cause existing clients to lose confidence in FIS' systems and terminate their agreements with FIS, inhibit FIS' ability to attract new clients, result in increasing regulation, or bring about other adverse consequences from the government agencies that regulate FIS. If we fail to innovate or adapt our solutions to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade or implement our technology are not successful, we could lose clients, or our clients could lose customers, and we could have difficulty attracting new clients for our solutions. The markets for our solutions are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new solutions and evolving industry standards. Our future success will be significantly affected by our ability to enhance our current solutions and develop and introduce new solutions and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers. In addition, as more of our revenue and market demand shifts to software as a service ("SaaS"), business process as a service ("BPaaS"), cloud, and new emerging technologies, the need to keep pace with rapid technology changes becomes more acute. These initiatives carry the risks associated with any new solution development effort, including cost overruns, delays in delivery and implementation, and performance issues. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in developing, marketing and selling new solutions or enhancements that meet these changing demands. If we are not successful in these efforts, we could lose clients, or our clients could lose customers, and we could have difficulty attracting new clients for our solutions. Any of these developments could have an adverse impact on our future revenue and/or business prospects. 13 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive business environment; if we are unable to compete effectively, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The market for our solutions is intensely competitive. Our competitors in Banking and Capital Markets vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the solutions and services they offer. Some of our competitors have substantial resources. We face direct competition from third parties, and because many of our larger potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house and therefore view their system requirements from a make-versus-buy perspective, we also often compete against our potential clients' in-house capacities. In addition, the markets in which we compete have recently attracted increasing competition from smaller start-ups with emerging technologies which are receiving increasing investments as well as global banks (and businesses controlled by combinations of global banks) and global internet companies that are introducing competitive solutions and services into the marketplace, particularly in the payments area. Emerging technologies and increased competition may also have the effect of unbundling bank solutions and result in displacing solutions we are currently providing from our legacy systems. International competitors are also now targeting and entering the U.S. market with greater force. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that the competitive pressures we face in the markets in which we operate will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the Merchant business, our competitors include financial institutions and well-established payment processing companies. In this business, our U.S. competitors that are financial institutions or are affiliated with financial institutions may not incur the sponsorship costs we incur for registration with the payment networks. Accordingly, these competitors may be able to offer more attractive fees to our current and prospective clients or other services that we do not provide. Competition could result in a loss of existing clients and greater difficulty attracting new clients. Furthermore, if competition causes us to reduce the fees we charge in order to attract or retain clients, there is no assurance we can successfully control our costs in order to maintain our profit margins. One or more of these factors could have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. As the Merchant industry fragments into new non-traditional payment and asset types, siloed expertise, new geographies and different markets, our competitors in this segment are increasing in number and type. FIS is currently facing new competitive pressure from non-traditional payment processors, including payment facilitators and other embedded payment solution providers, which has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our Merchant revenue and margins in 2023, as well as from other parties entering the payments industry, which may compete in one or more of these areas. These competitors have significant financial resources and robust networks and are highly regarded by consumers. If these competitors gain a greater share of total electronic payments transactions, or if we are unable to successfully react to changes in the industry spurred by the entry of these new market participants or to allocate sufficient capital to enable our Merchant business to successfully make acquisitions and pursue growth plans in response to industry changes, then it could have a further material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. For more detail, see "Item 1. Business , Competition." Global economic, political and other conditions, including business cycles and consumer confidence, as well as geopolitical conflicts, may adversely affect our clients or trends in consumer spending, which may adversely impact the demand for our services and our revenue and profitability. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from transaction processing fees. The global transaction processing industries depend heavily upon the overall level of consumer, business and government spending. Any change in economic factors, including a sustained deterioration in general economic conditions or consumer confidence, particularly in the U.S., or inflation and increases in interest rates in key countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer spending, consumer debt levels and credit and debit card usage, and as a result, adversely affect our financial performance by reducing the number or average purchase amount of transactions that we service. Rising interest rates, inflation, and slowing economic growth in the U.S. and Europe began to negatively affect revenue growth and profitability in 2022, particularly in our Merchant Solutions segment. These effects began to accelerate in the fourth quarter of 2022 and are expected to continue to adversely affect our future financial performance. These expectations contributed to our fourth quarter 2022 goodwill impairment in our Merchant reporting unit, and further deterioration in macroeconomic conditions beyond our current expectations could contribute to further impairment. Additionally, supply chain issues globally can slow down the provision of parts for our products, such as chips in EMV cards, and could adversely impact revenue. In addition, the direct and indirect effects of geopolitical conflicts, such as the Russia-Ukraine war, have adversely affected, and worsening or future conflicts could materially adversely affect, global economic activity and transaction processing volumes. 14 Table of Contents When there is a slowdown or downturn in the economy, a drop in stock market levels or trading volumes, or an event that disrupts the financial markets, our business and financial results may suffer for a number of reasons. Customers may react to worsening conditions by reducing or delaying their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing or delaying their information technology spending. In addition, customers may seek to curtail trading operations or to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers to lower-cost solutions. Any further protective trade policies or actions taken by the U.S. may also result in other countries reducing, or making more expensive, services permitted to be provided by U.S.-based companies. During 2022, we began to experience lengthening sales cycles, particularly in Banking Solutions and Capital Markets, which we believe resulted from economic uncertainty and which has had, and is expected to continue to have, an adverse effect on our results of operations. If any of these circumstances remain in effect for an extended period of time, there could be a material adverse effect on our financial results. Entity mergers or consolidations and business failures in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our business by eliminating some of our existing and potential clients and making us more dependent on a more limited number of clients. There has been and may continue to be substantial consolidation activity in the banking and financial services industry. In addition, certain financial institutions that experienced negative operating results, including some of our clients, have failed. These consolidations and failures reduce our number of potential clients and may reduce our number of existing clients, which could adversely affect our revenue, even if the events do not reduce the aggregate activities of the consolidated entities. Further, if our clients or our partners across any of our businesses fail and/or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients or our partners, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce use of our services. It is also possible that larger financial institutions resulting from consolidations would have greater leverage in negotiating terms or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to obtain new clients or renew client contracts on favorable terms could adversely affect results of operations and financial condition. We may face pricing pressure in obtaining and retaining our clients. Larger clients in particular may use their negotiating leverage to seek price reductions from us when they renew a contract, when a contract is extended, or when the client's business has significant volume changes. Larger clients may also reduce services if they decide to move services in-house. Further, our smaller and mid-size clients may also exert pricing pressure, particularly upon renewal, due to competition or other economic needs or pressures being experienced by the client. On some occasions, this pricing pressure results in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. This reduction in revenue could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operating results could be adversely affected if we experience business interruptions, errors or failure in connection with our or third-party information technology and communication systems and other software and hardware used in connection with our business, if we experience defects or design errors in the software solutions we offer, or more generally, if the third-party vendors we rely upon are unwilling or unable to provide the services we need to effectively operate our business. Many of our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new technology solutions and services. Further, the technology solutions underlying our services have occasionally contained, and may in the future contain, undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technologies on platforms used by our clients, or our clients may cancel a project after we have expended significant effort and resources to complete an installation. Finally, our systems and operations could be exposed to damage or interruption from fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, tornadoes, typhoons, drought, high-winds, severe weather events, other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry and computer viruses. Defects in our technology solutions, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions, or other difficulties could result in (i) interruption of business operations; (ii) delay in market acceptance; (iii) additional development and remediation costs; (iv) diversion of technical and other resources; (v) loss of clients; (vi) negative publicity; or (vii) exposure to liability claims. Any one or more of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through controls, including system redundancies, security controls, application development and testing controls, and disclaimers and limitation-of-liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will always be successful in preventing disruption or limiting our liability. 15 Table of Contents Further, most of the solutions we offer are very complex software systems that are regularly updated. No matter how careful the design and development, complex software often contains errors and defects when first introduced and when major new updates or enhancements are released. If errors or defects are discovered in current or future solutions, then we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner, if at all. In our development of updates and enhancements to our software solutions, we may make a major design error that makes the solution operate incorrectly or less efficiently. The failure of software to properly perform could result in the Company and its clients being subjected to losses or liability, including censures, fines, or other sanctions by the applicable regulatory authorities, and we could be liable to parties who are financially harmed by those errors. In addition, such errors could cause the Company to lose revenue, lose clients or damage its reputation. In addition, we generally depend on a number of third parties, both in the United States and internationally, to supply elements of our systems, computers, research and market data, connectivity, communication network infrastructure, other equipment and related support and maintenance. We cannot be certain that any of these third parties will be able to continue providing these services to effectively meet our evolving needs. If our vendors, or in certain cases vendors of our customers, fail to meet their obligations, provide poor or untimely service, or we are unable to make alternative arrangements for the provision of these services, then we may in turn fail to provide our services or to meet our obligations to our customers, and our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. The Company is subject to regulation, supervision, and enforcement authority of numerous governmental and regulatory bodies in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Because the Company is a technology service provider to U.S. financial institutions, it is subject to regular oversight and examination by the FBA, each agency of which is a member of the FFIEC, an interagency body of federal banking regulators. The FBA have broad discretion in the implementation, interpretation and enforcement of banking and consumer protection laws and use the FFIEC's uniform principles, standards and report forms in their review of bank service providers like FIS. A failure to comply with these laws, or a failure to meet the supervisory expectations of the banking regulators, could result in adverse action against the Company. The regulators have the power to, among other things, enjoin "unsafe or unsound" practices; require affirmative actions to correct any violation or practice; issue administrative orders that can be judicially enforced; direct the sale of subsidiaries or other assets; and assess civil money penalties. The Company is also subject to ongoing supervision by regulatory and governmental bodies across the world, including economic and conduct regulators, such as OFAC, Fin CEN, the FCA and PSR in the U.K., the DNB in the Netherlands, and regulatory and governmental bodies responsible for issuing anti-money laundering, anti-bribery, and global economic sanctions regulations. These various regulatory regimes require compliance across many aspects of our merchant activities in respect of capital requirements, safeguarding, training, authorization and supervision of personnel, systems, processes and documentation. As we continue to grow our global eCommerce business around the world, we will become subject to additional countries' regulations governing merchant acquiring and related payments matters. The failure of FIS to comply with any of these requirements could result in the suspension or revocation of a license, loss of consumer confidence, and/or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. We also have business operations that store, process or transmit consumer information or have direct relationships with consumers that are obligated to comply with regulations, including, but not limited to, the FCRA, the Federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and applicable privacy requirements. In addition, our wealth and retirement business holds a charter in the state of Georgia, which exposes us to further regulatory compliance requirements of the Georgia Department of Banking and Finance. The U.S. wealth and retirement business is required to hold certain levels of regulatory capital as defined by the state banking regulator in Georgia. In the U.K., our Merchant business, as well as our Platform Securities and broker-dealer businesses, are regulated by the FCA and are also subject to further regulatory capital requirements. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") continues to establish rules and regulations for regulating financial and non-financial institutions and providers to those institutions to ensure adequate protection of consumer privacy and to ensure consumers are not impacted by deceptive business practices, as well as provide examination and supervisory authority over consumer reporting agencies, including ChexSystems. These rules and regulations govern our clients or potential clients and also govern certain of our businesses. These regulations have resulted, and may further result, in the need for FIS to make capital investments to modify our solutions to facilitate our clients' and potential clients' compliance, as well as to deploy additional processes or reporting to comply with these regulations. In the future, we may be subject to additional expense to ensure continued compliance with applicable laws and regulations and to investigate, defend and/or remedy actual or alleged violations. Further, requirements of these regulations have resulted, and could further result, in changes in our business practices, our clients' business practices and those of other marketplace participants that may alter the delivery of services to 16 Table of Contents consumers, which have impacted, and could further impact, the demand for our solutions and services as well as alter the types or volume of transactions that we process on behalf of our clients. As a result, these requirements, or proposed or future requirements, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition, revenue, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. The New York Department of Financial Services has enacted rules that require covered financial institutions to establish and maintain cybersecurity programs. These rules subject FIS to additional regulation and require us to adopt additional business practices that could also require additional capital expenditures or impact our operating results. Changes to state money transmission laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new or varying regulatory requirements, may result in the need for additional money transmitter licenses. These changes could result in increased costs of compliance, as well as fines or penalties. One of our subsidiaries is an SEC-registered broker-dealer in the U.S. and is subject to the financial and operational rules of FINRA, and others are authorized by the FCA to conduct certain regulated business in the U.K. Our transfer agent business is also regulated by the SEC and other regulators around the world. Domestic and foreign regulatory and self-regulatory organizations, such as the SEC, FINRA, and the FCA, can, among other things, fine, censure, issue cease-and-desist orders against, and suspend or expel a broker-dealer or its officers or employees for failure to comply with the many laws and regulations that govern brokerage activities. Regulations affecting the brokerage industry may change, which could adversely affect our financial results. We are exposed to certain risks relating to the execution services provided by our brokerage operations to our customers and counterparties, which include other broker-dealers, active traders, hedge funds, asset managers, and other institutional and non-institutional clients. These risks include, but are not limited to, customers or counterparties failing to pay for or deliver securities, trading errors, the inability or failure to settle trades, and trade execution system failures. As trading in the U.S. securities markets has become more automated, the potential impact of a trading error or a rapid series of errors caused by a computer or human error or a malicious act has become greater. In our other businesses, we generally can disclaim liability for trading losses that may be caused by our software, but in our brokerage operations, we may not be able to limit our liability for trading losses or failed trades even when we are not at fault. As a result, we may suffer losses that are disproportionately large compared to the relatively modest profit contributions of our brokerage operations. Moreover, the legislative and regulatory landscape continues to evolve, and we expect that it may cover alternative payment types, including digital currency. Any failure to comply with such laws could expose us to liability and/or reputational damage. Financial crimes laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance and associated recordkeeping costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. If we fail to comply with relevant regulations, then we risk reputational damage, potential civil and criminal sanctions, fines or other action imposed by regulatory or governmental authorities, including the potential suspension or revocation of the permission-based regulatory licenses which authorize the Company to provide core services to customers. Regulatory authorities subject our businesses, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, reviews and proceedings (both formal and informal), certain of which may result in adverse settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. This could result in an adverse effect on FIS' business, reputation and customer relationships, which in turn could adversely affect its financial position and performance. Many of our clients are subject to a regulatory environment and to industry standards that may change in a manner that reduces the types or volume of solutions or services we provide or may reduce the type or number of transactions in which our clients engage, and therefore reduce our revenue. Our clients are subject to a number of government regulations and industry standards with which our solutions must comply. Our clients must ensure that our solutions and related services work within the extensive and evolving regulatory and industry requirements applicable to them. Federal, state, foreign or industry authorities could adopt laws, rules or regulations affecting our clients' businesses that could lead to increased operating costs and could reduce the convenience and functionality of our solutions, possibly resulting in reduced market acceptance. In addition, action by regulatory authorities relating to credit availability, data usage, privacy, or other related regulatory developments could have an adverse effect on our clients and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, revenue, results of operations, prospects for future growth and overall business. Elimination of regulatory requirements could also adversely affect the sales of our solutions designed to help clients comply with complex regulatory environments. 17 Table of Contents Our revenue relating to all aspects of the sale of services to members of Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks is dependent upon our continued certification and sponsorship, and the loss or suspension of certification or sponsorship could adversely affect our business. In order to provide our card processing services, we must be certified (including applicable sponsorship) by Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover and other similar organizations. These certifications are dependent upon our continued adherence to the standards of the issuing bodies and sponsoring member banks. The member financial institutions, some of which are our competitors, set the standards with which we must comply. If we fail to comply with these standards, then we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our registration could be terminated. The suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes in, or the enforcement of, the rules and regulations governing or relating to the businesses of Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks, could result in a reduction in revenue or increased costs of operation for us, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business. In order to provide merchant transaction processing services in the U.S. and certain other jurisdictions, we are registered through our bank sponsorships with the Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks as service providers for member institutions. As a result, FIS and many of its clients are subject to payment network rules. If FIS or its associated participants do not comply with the payment network requirements, the payment networks could seek to fine FIS, suspend FIS or terminate its registrations. Our Merchant business has occasionally received notices of noncompliance and fines, which have typically related to excessive chargebacks by a merchant or data security failures on the part of a merchant. If FIS is unable to recover fines from, or pass through costs to, its merchants or other associated participants, then FIS would experience a financial loss. The termination of its registration, or any changes in the payment network rules that would impair FIS' registrations, could require the Company to stop providing payment network services to the Visa, MasterCard or other payment networks, which would have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. Outside of the U.S., our Merchant business primarily provides acquiring and processing services directly through international credit and debit card networks run by Visa, MasterCard and other payment networks. In order to access the card networks, the Company must maintain the relevant jurisdictional operating licenses or memberships. In some markets where it is not feasible or possible for the Company to have a direct acquiring license with a card network, we have a relationship with a local financial institution sponsor. As part of the Company's registration with card networks (either directly or indirectly through local sponsors), the Company is subject to operating rules, including mandatory technology requirements, promulgated by the card networks that could subject the Company and its customers to a variety of fines and penalties, as well as suspension and termination of membership or access. These agreements in the U.S. and elsewhere with bank sponsors give such sponsors substantial discretion in approving certain aspects of our business practices in our Merchant business, including our solicitation, application and qualification procedures for merchants and the terms of our agreements with merchants. Our financial institution sponsors' discretionary actions under these agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also rely on various financial institutions to provide clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. Without these sponsorships or clearing services agreements in our Merchant business, we would not be able to process Visa, MasterCard and other payment network transactions or settle transactions in relevant markets, including the U.S., which would have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, FIS' financial results could be adversely affected if the costs associated with such sponsorships or clearing services agreements increase. Changes in the contracts, rules or standards of networks, or relevant legal or regulatory scrutiny of pricing practices, could adversely affect FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, card and debit networks increase the interchange fees that they charge. At their sole discretion, our financial institution sponsors have the right to pass any increases in interchange and other fees on to us, and they have consistently done so in the past. While we are generally permitted under the contracts with our merchants to pass these fee increases along to our merchants through corresponding increases in our processing fees, if we cannot continue to do so due to contractual or regulatory requirements or competitive pressures, the inability to pass through such fees could have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, in order to access the card networks directly, as our Merchant business does primarily outside the U.S., we must pay card network membership fees, which are subject to change from time to time, and which we may be unable to pass along to our merchant clients, potentially resulting in FIS absorbing a portion or all of such increases in the future. 18 Table of Contents Furthermore, the rules and regulations of the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Moreover, as payment networks become more dependent on proprietary technology, modify their technological approach or operating practices, and/or seek to provide value added services to issuers and merchants, there is heightened risk that rules and standards may be governed by their own self-interest, or the self-interest of third parties with influence over them, which could materially impact FIS' competitive position and operations. Interchange fees and pricing practices have been receiving significant legal and regulatory scrutiny worldwide. The resulting changes that could occur from proposed regulations or other forms of enforcement could alter the fees charged by us, card associations and debit networks worldwide. Such changes could have an adverse impact on our business or financial condition and results of operations. Constantly evolving global privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws require the Company to adopt new business practices, update contractual provisions in existing and new contracts, and constantly update our global Privacy and Data Protection Program and our global Information Security Program, which may require transitional and incremental expenses and may impact our future operating results. The Company is subject to numerous global privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws, which are continuing to change in ways that impose increasingly complex and costly compliance obligations on FIS and that have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant impact on FIS' operations. Failure to comply with new and evolving laws in these areas could result in significant penalties, damage to our brand, and loss of business. FIS has incurred, and will continue to incur, costs to comply with these new laws. There are also several additional laws being considered by state legislatures, the U.S. Congress, and governments around the world. As a result, a more substantial compliance effort with varying regimes in different jurisdictions is expected to continue in the future, which has the potential to further increase the costs and complexities of FIS' business. Moreover, privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and impose inconsistent or conflicting requirements. Complying with varying jurisdictional requirements could increase the costs and complexity of compliance and associated recordkeeping costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and incur additional costs. Data localization requirements in evolving privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws could also increase the cost and alter the approach to housing data around the world. In addition, our businesses are increasingly subject to laws and regulations relating to digital transformation, surveillance, cyber resilience, encryption, and data onshoring in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations may require us to change our technology for information security, operational infrastructure, policies, and procedures, which could be time-consuming and costly. High profile payment card industry or digital banking security breaches could impact consumer payment behavior patterns in the future and reduce our card payment transaction volumes. We are unable to predict whether or when high profile card payment or digital banking security breaches will occur and if they occur, whether consumers will transact less on their payment cards or reduce their digital banking service. If consumers transact less on cards issued by our clients or reduce digital banking services, and we are not able to adapt to offer our clients alternative technologies, then our revenue and related earnings could be adversely affected. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights or a finding that our patents are invalid could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends in some part upon our proprietary solutions and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our solutions or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary or challenge the validity of our patents with governmental authorities. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot make any assurances that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of technology or that the agreements entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available online. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. As we increase our international business, we are subject to further risks of misappropriation of our intellectual property in countries which have laws which are less protective of intellectual property or are enforced in a less protective manner. If our applications or services are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, then we may be required to change our business practices and may also become subject to significant costs and monetary penalties. 19 Table of Contents As our information technology applications and services develop, we are increasingly subject to infringement claims. Any claims, whether with or without merit, could (i) be expensive and time-consuming to defend; (ii) result in an injunction or other equitable relief which could cause us to cease making, licensing or using applications that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; (iii) require us to redesign our applications, if feasible; (iv) divert management's attention and resources; and (v) require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies or pay damages resulting from any infringing use. Some of our solutions contain "open source" software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could adversely affect our business. We use a limited amount of software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called "open source" licenses and may continue to use such software in the future. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. Additionally, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our solutions. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our solutions. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, adversely affect our business. Lack of system integrity, fraudulent payments, credit quality, and undetected errors related to funds settlement or the availability of clearing services could result in a financial loss. We settle funds on behalf of financial institutions, other businesses and consumers and receive funds from clients, card issuers, payment networks and consumers on a daily basis for a variety of transaction types. Transactions facilitated by us include debit card, credit card, electronic bill payment transactions, banking payments and check clearing that supports consumers, financial institutions and other businesses. These payment activities rely upon the technology infrastructure that facilitates the verification of activity with counterparties, the facilitation of the payment as well as the detection or prevention of fraudulent payments. A compromise of our continuity of operations, integrity of processing, or ability to detect or prevent fraudulent payments could result in a financial loss to us. In addition, we rely on various financial institutions to provide Automated Clearing House ("ACH") services in support of funds settlement for certain of our solutions. An inability to obtain such ACH services in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. In addition, we may issue credit to consumers, financial institutions or other businesses as part of the funds settlement. A default on this credit by a counterparty could result in a financial loss to us. Furthermore, if one of our clients for which we facilitate settlement suffers a fraudulent event due to a deficiency in their controls, then we may suffer a financial loss if the client does not have sufficient capital to cover the loss. Fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. In our Merchant business, we face potential liability for fraudulent electronic payment transactions initiated by merchants, third parties or other associated participants. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly accepts payment by a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials; records a false sales transaction utilizing a stolen or counterfeit card or credentials; processes an invalid card; or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. In the event a dispute between a cardholder and a merchant is not resolved in favor of the merchant, the transaction is normally charged back to the merchant, and the purchase price is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder and FIS is required to collect from the merchant. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud or other criminal activity could increase FIS' chargebacks or other liability. Increases in chargebacks or other liabilities due to merchant failures or otherwise could have a material adverse effect on FIS' business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative and regulatory changes as a result of the U.K.'s exit from membership in the E.U. ("Brexit") and changes to 20 Table of Contents the E.U. and U.K. trading relationship could cause disruption to and create uncertainty surrounding our business. Our Merchant business has a significant amount of business, and services clients, in the U.K. We also have other business and operations in the U.K. and the E.U. Following the U.K.s departure from the E.U. and the end of the Brexit transition period at the end of 2020, the extent to which the U.K. may elect to implement or mirror future changes in the E.U. regulatory regime, or to diverge from the current E.U.-influenced regime over time, remains to be seen. To the extent that the U.K. and E.U. trading relationship is premised on or influenced by the level of equivalence or convergence, or where initiatives are jointly designed on the basis of cooperation and shared outcomes, the E.U. regulatory regime may continue to have a significant effect on the regime which the U.K. government and regulators elect to implement. Legislative reforms are being introduced in the U.K. under the Financial Services and Markets Bill published in July 2022 and the "Edinburgh Reforms" of U.K. financial services unveiled in December 2022. The timing and details for the implementation of such reforms are not yet known, but these are expected to become clearer during the course of 2023. There remains unavoidable uncertainty related to the full effect of any divergence between E.U and U.K. regimes, and depending on the nature of any changes, any of these effects could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations, including movements in foreign currency exchange rates. The international operations of FIS represented approximately 24% of our total 2022 revenue and are largely conducted in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, including the British Pound Sterling, Euro, Brazilian Real, Australian Dollar and Indian Rupee. FIS continues to expand its international presence by offering merchant acquiring services, including eCommerce, outside of the U.S. Our business and financial results could be adversely affected due to a variety of factors, including the following: changes in a specific country or region's political and cultural climate or economic condition, including change in governmental regime; unexpected or unfavorable changes in foreign laws, regulatory requirements and related interpretations; difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; inadequate intellectual property protection in foreign countries; trade-protection measures, import or export licensing requirements such as Export Administration Regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Commerce and fines, penalties or suspension or revocation of export privileges; trade sanctions imposed by the U.S. or other governments with jurisdictional authority over our business operations; the effects of applicable and potentially adverse foreign tax law changes; significant adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates; lesser enforcement of intellectual property laws and protections internationally; longer accounts receivable cycles; managing a geographically dispersed workforce; trade treaties, tariffs or agreements that could adversely affect our ability to do business in affected countries; and compliance with the FCPA and OFAC regulations, particularly in emerging markets. As we expand our international operations, more of our clients may pay us in foreign currencies. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar subjects us to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that can negatively impact our results, period to period, including relative to analyst estimates or guidance. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relates to foreign currencies in Europe, including the U.K., Brazil, Australia and India. The U.S. Dollar value of our net investments in foreign operations, the periodic conversion of foreign-denominated earnings to the U.S. Dollar (our reporting currency), and our results of operations and, in some cases, cash flows, could be adversely affected in a material manner by movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These risks could cause an adverse effect on the business, financial position and results of operations of the Company. For more information on our exposure to foreign currency risk, see "Foreign Currency Risk" in "