ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Group's condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as "condensed consolidated financial statements" or "historical condensed consolidated financial statements") included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Proposed Acquisition by SoftBank On February 14, 2017, Fortress entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with SB Foundation Holdings LP, a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership ("Parent"), and Foundation Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which, among other things, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Merger"). At the effective time of the Merger, each Class A share issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (subject to certain exceptions) and each restricted stock unit with respect to the Class A shares outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be converted into the right to receive $8.08 in cash, without interest, less any applicable taxes required to be withheld. Each Class B share outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be canceled and retired in exchange for no consideration. The Merger Agreement also provides that the Company's shareholders may also receive up to two regular quarterly dividends prior to the closing, each in an amount not to exceed $0.09 per Class A share. There are no appraisal or dissenters' rights available with respect to the Merger. Our board of directors, acting on the unanimous recommendation of a special committee consisting entirely of independent and disinterested directors (the "Special Committee"), unanimously approved the terms of the Merger Agreement and unanimously recommended the approval of the Merger by the Company's shareholders (the "Board Recommendation"). Consummation of the Merger is subject to certain customary conditions, including, without limitation, the approval by the holders of a majority of the Class A shares and Class B shares (voting as one class) and the receipt of certain governmental and regulatory approvals. In addition, the obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to consummate the Merger are subject to, among other conditions, the absence of a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement), and the receipt of consent of advisory clients representing at least 87.5% of Base Aggregate Management Fees (as defined in the Merger Agreement). The Company has made customary representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement and has agreed to customary covenants, including with respect to, among other things, the operation of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries prior to the closing. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains a customary "no shop" provision that, in general, restricts the Company's ability to solicit alternative acquisition proposals and to provide nonpublic information to and engage in discussions or negotiations regarding alternative acquisition proposals, subject to a customary "fiduciary out" exception. The Merger Agreement contains certain customary termination rights, including, without limitation, if the Merger is not consummated on or before December 31, 2017. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including with respect to the Company's entry into an agreement with respect to a Superior Offer (as defined in the Merger Agreement), the Company will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $98.4 million . If the Merger Agreement is terminated by Parent or the Company following withdrawal or modification of the Board Recommendation based on an Intervening Event (as defined in the Merger Agreement), the Company will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $131.1 million . Parent has secured from SoftBank Group Corp. ("SoftBank") committed equity financing for the entire amount of the purchase price payable under the Merger Agreement, and the Company has received a corresponding limited guarantee from SoftBank that also requires SoftBank to comply with certain specified covenants under the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement permits the syndication of a portion of Parent's equity, subject to certain conditions and limitations, provided that no such syndication will reduce SoftBank's obligations under the equity commitment letter or limited guarantee. At the completion of the equity syndication period specified under the Merger Agreement, Parent had not entered into any investment agreements with any potential equity investors. 44 On February 14, 2017, concurrently with the entry into the Merger Agreement, Parent entered into a Founders Agreement (the "Founders Agreement") with the Company, FIG Corp., FIG Asset Co. LLC (together with FIG Corp., the "Buyers"), each of the Principals and the Principals' related parties that own FOGUs (collectively with the Principals, the "Sellers"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Buyers will purchase from the Sellers 100% of the FOGUs that are not already owned by the Company and its subsidiaries of each of the FOG entities. At the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Founders Agreement, which is to occur substantially concurrently with the closing of the Merger, each FOGU will be acquired from the Sellers in exchange for $8.08 in cash, subject to reduction for certain items. Each Seller will place 50% of the after-tax proceeds from the sale of its FOGUs into escrow at the closing. These escrowed proceeds and retained investments will be invested in funds and investment vehicles of the Company or SoftBank, or in stock of SoftBank, among other things. The Closing under the Founders Agreement is subject to certain conditions, including, without limitation, the satisfaction of the conditions to the Merger. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, on February 14, 2017, Parent entered into a Voting and Support Agreement (each, a "Support Agreement") with each Principal and his related parties that own Class A or Class B shares (the "Supporting Members"). The Support Agreements generally require that the Supporting Members vote their Covered Securities (as defined in the Support Agreement) of the Company that represent, in the aggregate, 34.99% of the total voting power of the Company, in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement and against any competing acquisition proposals, subject to the limitations set forth therein. Subject to certain exceptions, the Support Agreements prohibit transfers by the Supporting Members of any of their Covered Securities. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, on February 14, 2017, FIG Corp. entered into a Waiver Agreement (the "TRA Waiver") with certain other subsidiaries of the Company and the Principals, effective as of the closing, pursuant to which, among other things, the Principals waive their rights to receive any payments under the tax receivable agreement arising out of the transactions contemplated by the Founders Agreement and other transactions occurring after February 14, 2017. With respect to all previous exchanges for which a tax receivable agreement obligation is still outstanding, the waivers and amendments provided for in the TRA Waiver will generally have the effect of reducing and/or deferring the payments to which the Principals would otherwise have been entitled under the tax receivable agreement. In connection with their execution of the Founders Agreement, each of the Principals entered into an Amended and Restatement Employment, Non-Competition, and Non-Solicitation Agreement with FIG LLC, an operating subsidiary of the Company. The employment agreements will become effective on and subject to the closing and will have an initial five -year term. In connection with entering into the Founders Agreement, the Second Amended and Restated Fortress Investment Group LLC Principal Compensation Plan (the "PCP") will be further amended and restated, effective as of and subject to the closing, to make certain clarifying and conforming changes. Under the PCP, the Principals will continue to receive annual payments based on their respective success in raising and investing new and existing funds and the performance of the Fortress funds during a given fiscal year and, for the credit hedge fund business, on the performance of the existing AUM of Fortress's flagship hedge funds during a given year. On February 14, 2017, the Board, having determined that it was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to amend the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "LLC Agreement"), approved an amendment to the LLC Agreement (the "Amendment"). The Amendment amends and restates Section 12.8 of the LLC Agreement, providing that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for any action, claim or proceeding arising out of or relating to the LLC Agreement, the Company or its business or affairs. Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $70.2 billion in AUM as of March 31, 2017 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of our over 1,800 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, receive reimbursements of certain expenses from funds we manage and earn investment income (loss) from our investments in our funds. We continue to invest capital in our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was mixed for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , with positive performance in some funds and negative performance in others, and overall our segment operating results (excluding the impact of $20.6 million of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank) were up in comparison to the same period of 2016 . For more information about these topics, please refer to " Assets Under Management" and " Performance of our Funds" below. 45 As of March 31, 2017 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $14.5 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America, the Caribbean and Western Europe; and (ii) permanent capital vehicles, which includes publicly traded companies that are externally managed by Fortress pursuant to management agreements and a senior living property management business. The publicly traded companies invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets, including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing related assets, media assets, senior living properties and transportation and infrastructure assets. All of the capital of Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Investors ("WWTAI"), formerly a private fund managed by Fortress, was contributed to Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC ("FTAI") which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $17.7 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager or co-manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity ("PE") funds which are comprised of a family of "credit opportunities" funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of "real assets" funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in the following principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $4.2 billion of AUM which includes (i) $4.2 billion of AUM relating to funds managed by Graticule Asset Management Asia ("Affiliated Manager" or "Graticule") as a result of the transition of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts into an autonomous business in January 2015 and (ii) less than $0.1 billion of AUM in an endowment style fund, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers and direct investments. Graticule is an external manager in which Fortress has a minority interest and accounts for using the equity method. Fortress also received fees for providing infrastructure services (technology, back office and related services) to Graticule through the termination of the infrastructure services agreement in May 2016. Logan Circle our traditional asset management business, which has approximately $33.7 billion of AUM, provides institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our "fund investors"). An "alternative" asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Our private equity business also manages permanent capital vehicles, also described below. In addition, our liquid hedge fund business includes funds managed by the Affiliated Manager. Private equity style funds are typically "closed-end" funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may "draw" or "call" this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are publicly traded entities which are externally managed by us. "Externally managed" means that their senior management is typically employed by us and that they rely on us for their decision making. In exchange, we receive management fees, incentive income and, when we assist these entities in raising equity capital, options to purchase their common stock. "Publicly traded" means that their equity, in the form of common stock, is typically traded on a major public stock exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, their equity investors (stockholders) may trade in and out of their positions, but Fortress continues to earn management fees and incentive income regardless of any turnover in ownership. 46 These entities have indefinite lives and typically pay dividends or distributions to their stockholders only from earnings, while capital is reinvested. Hedge funds are typically "open-end" funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. Our credit hedge funds include the Mount Kellett Funds of which Fortress is co-manager. In addition, Fortress has a traditional asset management business. The traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements pursuant to our management agreements. For the Affiliated Manager, we receive a percentage of its earnings. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In addition, Fortress typically receives a number of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold by any such entity when raising equity capital. The options received by Fortress typically have a strike price equal to the market price of the relevant stock on the day of issuance and a ten-year term. If the value of the stock were to increase during the term of the option, the value received by Fortress upon exercise would exceed the strike price paid by Fortress. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors, also known as our "assets under management" or "AUM;" Earn attractive returns on the investments we make; and Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Management fee paying assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf, when the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles raise capital such as in an equity offering or when our Affiliated Manager receives more capital. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments and return of capital distributions : In "closed-end" funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Similarly, AUM decreases in publicly traded investment vehicles, including the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, when return of capital distributions are made to investors. Redemptions : In "open-end" funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or "redeemed," at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. In addition, from time to time we may enter into transactions to manage or co-manage third party originated funds. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under " Assets Under Management." 47 Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under " Performance of Our Funds." Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds, private equity funds and publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a "high water mark" for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the "preferred" return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in a fund is realized, subject to a "clawback." At the termination of a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or "clawed back") to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. We generally earn incentive income from publicly traded permanent capital vehicles based on a percentage of operating results in excess of specified returns to shareholders, generally calculated on a cumulative but not compounding basis. Generally, incentive income is earned quarterly and once incentive is earned, it is not subject to clawback. However, if at a later date the total incentive income received by us is in excess of the cumulative amount calculated as of this later date, we would have to make up that difference in order for us to begin earning incentive income again. 48 Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the fund's assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the fund's remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the fund's remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or manner which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources," " Debt Obligations," and " Covenants." We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of not requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. 49 Our liquidity is discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based compensation, are discussed in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. In addition, we hold options in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned ("clawed back") to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the condensed consolidated balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Statement of Operations Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash, including profit sharing compensation. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash and is broken out from total compensation in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Equity-based compensation includes (i) RSUs (which have a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued), (ii) restricted shares, (iii) grants to employees of tandem options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (iv) grants to employees of equity interests in Fortress Funds and portfolio company investments. 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest expense. 4) Taxes. 50 Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. The primary measure of operating performance used by management is "Distributable Earnings," which is further discussed in the "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. See "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals) and income tax expense. Management assesses the performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see " Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. 51 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on AUM, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements from our funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues - both at Fortress and within our funds - depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and related financial and economic conditions. U.S. and global financial and economic conditions have a substantial impact on the success of our business strategy, including our ability to effect realizations and make new investments. In addition, equity market conditions impact the ability of our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments and the ability of our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of the debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds are directly and indirectly exposed to the debt markets: we invest in debt instruments, our funds borrow money to make investments and our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Our portfolio companies also require access to financing for their operations and refinancing of their debt. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. In general, strong financial and economic conditions including equity and debt markets enable us to execute our business strategy and generate attractive returns while dampening distressed investment strategies, and periods of weakening economies and markets and increased volatility can also present opportunities to invest at reduced valuations and in distressed asset classes, while negatively impacting fees, realizations and value creation. For example, a significant decline in the value of our funds' investments would require that our funds satisfy minimum return or "high water mark" requirements before generating incentive income and could subject us to "clawback" payments relating to incentive income previously collected. For hedge funds, opportunities to generate returns depend on their investment strategies, which may benefit from market declines or volatility. The central theme of the quarter ending March 31, 2017 was the official commencement of the Presidency of Donald Trump. The first quarter of his administration was not short on headlines and communication through social media on both domestic and foreign policy, but lacked in the actual implementation of any impactful policy. The broader equity indices continued to focus on the promises from the campaign trail regarding fiscal reforms and initially continued their post-election surge as the S&P 500 Index, Nasdaq Index and Dow Jones Industrial Average reached all-time highs during the quarter, with the Dow Jones also reaching the 20,000 level for the first time. As equities reached all-time highs the VIX Index, a gauge of the market estimate of future volatility, sunk to 9.97 on February 1, 2017, its lowest level since the financial crisis. Towards the end of the quarter sentiment and asset prices pulled back somewhat as investors began to question the timing and efficacy of some of the promises of the new Administration, which was especially evident after the House Republicans were forced to pull their version of Health Care Reform in late March as they were unable to secure enough votes in the House. As growth and inflation expectations grew after the election the yield on the U.S. 10-year Treasury Note rose to 2.63% on March 9th before turning lower and closing the quarter at 2.39%. The Treasury yield curve flattened throughout the quarter as the spread between the U.S. Benchmark 2-year and 10-year yield flattened from 1.25% as of year-end to 1.13% as of the end of the quarter. The flattening of the Treasury yield curve was also due to the rise in short-term interest rates in the U.S. as the Federal Open Market Committee (the "FOMC") hiked the benchmark overnight rate in March to a range of 0.75%-1.00% and maintained projections for multiple hikes through the balance of the year. Credit spreads in developed markets tightened over the quarter as the Bank of England and the European Central Bank continued buying corporate debt as part of their respective Corporate Bond Purchase Programs. The JP Morgan U.S. High Yield Credit Spread Index narrowed from 4.76% at year-end to 4.55% at the end of the quarter which propelled a record amount of debt refinancing throughout the quarter as companies took advantage of the favorable climate to lower their cost of debt. Oil prices were stable throughout the first two months with the West Texas Intermediate Crude Oil futures front-month contract trading in a range from around $50/barrel to $55/barrel. There was volatility throughout March as the Department of Energy reported U.S. crude oil inventories at the second highest level over the past five years after the rise in oil prices in the aftermath of the production cut agreement by OPEC countries in November 2016 drove U.S. producers to vastly increase production domestically. The U.S. Dollar traded strong towards the end of 2017 in the aftermath of the election but failed to maintain that momentum throughout the first quarter as it fell against its developed and emerging market peers. The Euro rallied 1.26% against the U.S. Dollar over the quarter and the Japanese Yen was 4.79% stronger as the Dollar was weaker while the Chinese Offshore Yuan was 1.50% stronger as the Peoples Bank of China defended the strength of their currency after being accused of being a manipulator on the campaign trail. Consumer and business sentiment in the United States rose materially as the University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Survey and the National Federation of Independent Business Small Business Optimism Indices posted readings of 98.5 and 105.9, 52 Table of Contents respectively, in January, which were both the highest levels since 2004. The optimism was triggered with the promise that with control of the House and Senate the Republicans would be able to deliver on the planned fiscal reform packages pledged on the campaign trail in short order which would lead to higher domestic growth and jobs. While the economy reflected in surveys has been very strong the actual economic data reported in the first quarter has been mixed. The unemployment rate continued falling and hit a post-financial crisis low of 4.50%. The U.S. housing market continued its strong trend post-financial crisis as the era of lower mortgage rates continued to boost new home sales which reported a post-financial crisis high in March at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 621 thousand homes. On the negative end of the spectrum, retail sales had their worst 2-month stretch in two years as they dropped 0.3% and 0.2% in February and March, respectively. While the underlying trend remains stronger for headline inflation, the measure fell for the first time in 13 months in March when it dropped 0.3%. Projections for first quarter gross domestic product were trending lower towards the end of the quarter with most economists anticipating a growth rate of roughly 1.00% quarter over quarter; however, estimates for the balance of the year remain optimistic. At their March meeting the FOMC indicated that enough progress had been achieved towards their dual mandate of maximum employment and price stability to warrant another interest rate hike as they increased the benchmark interest rate range to 0.75% - 1.00%. In addition to the hike the median forecast from the members of the FOMC projected two additional interest rate hikes in 2017. The members have also begun to discuss the timing and mechanics of ceasing re-investments of their holdings in U.S. Treasuries and Agency MBS as they look to begin reducing their approximately $4.48 trillion balance sheet which they had begun accumulating during their Quantitative Easing program. The center of attention in Europe throughout the first quarter was whether the calendar of general elections slated for 2017 would advance the momentum of the populist, anti-establishment movement from 2016 which saw the United States vote Donald Trump as their President and people of the United Kingdom elect to withdraw from the European Union. The initial event saw the head of the anti-Euro Party for Freedom, Geert Wilders, defeated soundly by Mark Rutte, the leader of the Peoples Party for Freedom and Democracy, in the Dutch election. The French election in April represented more of a tail risk given the importance of France to the European Union and the threats from the far-right leader of the National Front, Marine Le Pen, to withdraw from the single currency if elected. However, the threat of a Le Pen victory has diminished materially as the leader of the centrist party, the newly formed En Marche!, Emmanuel Macron is projected to defeat Le Pen by a comfortable margin in the second round run-off. Macron amassed the most votes in the first round which was viewed positively as the French equity index, the CAC 40 Index, rallied 4.14% on the first day of trading after the first round. The threat of the populist party, Alternative for Germany, winning the election scheduled for September are even more remote in Germany as they have polled very poorly but the party is in position to win seats in the National Parliament for the first time ever. Improving data from Europe and a positive outlook from the European Central Bank helped to propel European equity indices to a strong performance in the first quarter. Improving economic performance as well as continued monetary stimulus from the European Central Bank helped propel European equities higher over the quarter as the Eurostoxx 50 Index, CAC 40 Index and DAX Index finished the quarter up 6.39%, 5.35% and 7.25%, respectively. The debt situation in Greece was also in the spotlight as a 7 billion Euro debt repayment comes due in July as they attempt to agree to terms of a bailout with Europe and the IMF. The European countries want to impose a demand on Greece that they maintain a budget surplus of 3.5% for a decade after 2018 while the IMF has argued this is unachievable and called for Europe to help address the level of debt through interest rate reductions and/or extension of maturities of Greeces debt. The prospects for an agreement improved towards the end of March as Greece attempted to smooth the situation by promising pension and tax reforms to be conducted in 2019 and 2020, respectively, and Greece 10-year spreads decreased 0.42% in the last week of March as expectations for an agreement increased. The European economy had a very strong quarter as the Eurozone Composite PMI data read 56.7 in March for its highest reading since the beginning of 2011. The Eurozone Harmonised Index of Consumer Prices registered the highest level, at 2.0%, in February since January 2013 which was a strong indicator that the Eurozone is moving towards the European Central Banks 2% target. As a result the European Central Bank indicated in March that they have increased their forecasts for growth and inflation for 2017 and 2018 while maintaining their existing stimulus until the end of the year. On March 29 th , Theresa May filed Article 50 to officially begin the 2 year process of withdrawing the United Kingdom from the EU, although actual negotiations are not likely to begin until the fourth quarter this year. Amidst dire expectations for the economy around Brexit last year the United Kingdom economy has continued to outperform those expectations and held up reasonably well. Part of this resilience to Brexit has been aided by the depreciation of the Sterling which bottomed out at 1.1987 against the U.S. Dollar in January before rallying to 1.2552 against the U.S. Dollar, for an increase of 4.71% over that timeframe and an increase of 1.58% against the U.S. Dollar over the entire quarter. After being the root of the volatility in financial markets in the first quarter of 2016 the Chinese economy was relatively stable in the first quarter of 2017. While the volatility last year was kicked off with the depreciation of the Chinese currency, the People's Bank of China steadily drew down on their foreign exchange reserves in the first quarter this year to defend their currency from weakening. The key political event this year in China will be the meeting of the National Congress in the Fall at which point they will change the makeup of the Politburo, the top decision-making body, with a majority set to retire at that point. In concert with the FOMCs decision to hike their benchmark interest rate, the People's Bank of China hiked interest rates as well in an effort to minimize the impact of the interest rate differential and prevent a larger weakening of the Chinese Renminbi against the U.S. Dollar. Chinas economy grew better than expected in the first quarter highlighted by the housing sector as growth in property 53 Table of Contents investment grew by 9.4% in March, which also helped to boost the manufacturing sector with industrial output growth at 7.6%, which was well above expectations. However, during the quarter, regulators also started to institute measures and regulations in an effort to rein in the soaring housing prices and lending in an attempt to prevent a potential housing or credit bubble. Japan continues to recover and benefit from the anticipated growth in global demand. The country was especially boosted by strong performance in their export and manufacturing industries had benefited from their depreciating currency towards the end of 2016 although this had since reversed with a 4.79% strengthening against the U.S. Dollar in the first quarter. The Bank of Japan continued with their policy of targeting a 10-year yield of 0.00% and has indicated that they expect inflation expectations to rise later this year and hit their 2% target at some point in their fiscal year of 2018. Emerging markets performed very well in the first quarter boosted by a weaker U.S. Dollar, stronger commodity prices and improving economic growth out of developed markets. Emerging market equities benefited from relatively cheaper valuations to a lot of the developed world which boosted the iShares MSCI Emerging Market Index up 12.51% on the quarter. In the first quarter the inflow to emerging market debt was the third largest in the past seven years as prospects continue to improve for the reasons above and yields in emerging markets continue to look attractive relative to developed markets. The Mexican Peso, a proxy for the Trump trade, strengthened 9.70% in the quarter as the U.S. Dollar was weaker and Trump dialed back his harsh rhetoric against Mexico from his campaign trail regarding the wall and tearing up NAFTA. In South Korea, the continuation of a corruption scandal that emerged in 2016 continued as the Former President of Park Geun-Hyes impeachment was upheld by the Constitutional Court on March 10th and immediately called for snap Presidential elections to be held 60 days later in early May. The Kospi 200 Index was one of the best performing equity markets in the 1st quarter as it finished the quarter up 7.93%. A major risk to the sentiment in South Korea which continues to develop has been the rising tensions between its neighbor, North Korea, and the United States. The situation has become increasingly hostile as their leader, Kim Jong Un, continues to direct their military to test their nuclear and ballistic missiles capabilities even in the face of threats from Trump and the United States. Market conditions over the last several years have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets since the financial crisis in 2008 increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the equity and debt markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of sufficient liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Improved economic conditions over the last several years, including relatively low interest rates, have benefited our business in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, a financing environment that has enabled our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to secure long-term financing, refinance debt at attractive levels, raise public and private equity capital and improve portfolio company profitability. Improving economic conditions and higher valuations in private equity funds have also contributed to our ability to raise capital for new investment vehicles and realize investments in existing funds. While improved conditions have created a more challenging environment for identifying new investments, we continue to deploy meaningful amounts of new capital. Market conditions have at times, especially in the second half of 2015, however, have negatively affected the terms on which some of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and portfolio companies were able to raise debt and equity capital but, as a general matter, positively impacted the environment for making new investments. Following a period of deleveraging, that resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices, near-term investment opportunities have become more sporadic in nature given pricing and market dynamics. However, potential opportunities exist, particularly where access to capital is restricted and in Europe where economies may remain uncertain. Despite the uncertain economic recovery, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as discussed above and illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. The strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on the fees associated with traditional investment products relative to the fees charged by alternative investment managers, on returns available from traditional investment products and to a lesser extent on interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the 54 Table of Contents market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns of investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Solving for funding gaps and low interest rates have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. However, the amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment industry appears to have decreased during the year ended December 31, 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, and the outlook for the remainder of 2017 continues to be negative, with a focus on fees and weak performance of certain asset classes within the alternative investment industry tempering positivity in the industry. In addition, certain investors appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid time frame than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e., "private equity style") funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternative asset management industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As illustrated in " Performance of Our Funds" section herein, we have generated positive returns in some funds and weaker returns in others. As illustrated in " Assets Under Management" section herein, we have been able to raise additional capital in our funds. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the current market environment, as well as market conditions and other factors. The strength of the industries or sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: financial services (particularly loan servicing and consumer finance), transportation and infrastructure, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate), and senior living. The overall performance of our funds may be affected by market conditions and trends related to these industries and sectors. Within the financial services industry, the regulatory pressure on banks in the U.S. after the financial crisis contributed to a positive market for the expansion of non-bank financial institutions. This development has recently led to increased regulatory focus on non-bank financial institutions, resulting in slower growth and increased costs within some of our financial servicing investments. With respect to mortgage servicing rights, excess mortgage servicing rights and other servicing related investments, the timing, size and potential returns of future investments may be less attractive than prior investments due to a number of factors including interest rates and increased competition. In addition, regulatory and government sponsored entity approval processes have been more extensive and taken longer, which has increased the time and effort required to complete transactions. Worldwide growth in trade and transportation continued to expand albeit at a more modest pace than in the previous years, with growing demand for both cargo and passenger-related transportation infrastructure and equipment. The senior living sector continues to benefit from a favorable consolidation and supply/demand dynamics as well as an appreciation of related real estate values, though market conditions became more challenging toward the end of 2016 and into the first quarter of 2017. European markets have presented opportunities for distressed investments in country specific markets such as Italy. In addition, our credit PE funds, from time to time, may have significant investments in particular companies, industries or sectors. The credit PE funds have significant investments in certain sectors including commercial real estate, wireless spectrum and energy. 55 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity Credit (H) Funds (H) Permanent Capital Vehicles Hedge Funds (I) PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (I) Logan Circle Total AUM December 31, 2016 $ 6,532 $ 6,961 $ 8,803 $ 9,306 $ 4,589 $ 33,436 $ 69,627 Capital raised (A) 835 835 Increase in invested capital 4 21 198 223 Redemptions (B) RCA distributions (C) (159 ) (159 ) Return of capital distributions (D) (23 ) (90 ) (2 ) (419 ) (169 ) (703 ) Crystallized incentive income (E) (106 ) (106 ) Change in AUM of the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds (91 ) (215 ) (306 ) Net client flows (traditional) (362 ) (362 ) Income (loss) and foreign exchange (F) 182 110 167 13 (7 ) 645 1,110 AUM March 31, 2017 (G) $ 6,695 $ 7,816 $ 8,633 $ 9,098 $ 4,198 $ 33,719 $ 70,159 (A) Includes offerings of shares by our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to March 31, 2017 , if any. Redemptions are further detailed below. (C) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts ("RCA") in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Fund, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (D) For private equity funds and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity funds and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. For certain hedge funds, return of capital distributions represent distributions from special investments to investors who fully redeemed their capital from the fund. For credit hedge funds, return of capital distributions include income distributions from Fortress Japan Income Fund. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, return of capital distributions represent the portion of dividends paid and categorized as return of capital. (E) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (F) Represents the change in AUM resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the funds. For certain private equity funds, also includes the impact of a change in AUM basis from invested capital to fair value for certain portfolio companies which became publicly traded. (G) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 3 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses therein. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (H) As of March 31, 2017 , the private equity funds and credit funds had approximately $0.6 billion and $6.9 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $2.7 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. (I) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts transitioned to Graticule under the Affiliated Manager. As of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, liquid hedge funds AUM included $4.2 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, related to the Affiliated Manager and credit hedge funds AUM included $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, related to co-managed funds. 56 Table of Contents Redemptions Certain of the credit hedge funds allow investors to request that their capital be returned generally on an annual or semi-annual basis. Return of capital requests must be received at least 45 or 90 days prior to the redemption date and related payments are made subsequent to the redemption date. For instance, within the flagship credit hedge fund the 2017 return of capital request notice date is October 2, 2017 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2017. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or "RCA." During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. The Mount Kellett Funds, JP Funds and the Value Recovery Funds are not subject to redemptions. For our liquid hedge funds, the remaining investor capital of the Fortress Partners Funds and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds are comprised of sidepocket investments and are not subject to redemption. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, are shown in the table below. The table below does not include redemptions related to funds managed by the Affiliated Manager. Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through March 31, 2017 for the credit hedge funds(in thousands): Request/Notice Receipt Period Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (A) Remaining Outstanding Requests 2017 $ 7,276 (D) $ $ 7,276 2016 737,539 154,262 598,552 2015 773,268 443,658 380,588 Prior 265,802 (B) $ 1,252,218 (C) (A) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. (B) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (C) For credit hedge funds, reflects (i) $1.3 billion in RCAs which are to be paid over time as the underlying investments are realized and (ii) $7.3 million of 2017 redemption requests outstanding as of March 31, 2017 . All or a portion of the $7.3 million of 2017 redemption requests outstanding may also be deemed as RCA. Any 2017 redemption requests not deemed to be RCA will be paid in the first quarter of 2018. The determination of whether the current year's redemption requests are RCA is generally made by December 31. (D) Effective January 1, 2017, the remaining investor capital of the Worden Fund is comprised of RCA which is not subject to redemption. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 57 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception March 31, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 March 31, 2017 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRR's Fund I Nov-99 Closed May-13 $ N/A $ N/A 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 In Liquidation 1.5 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 In Liquidation 0.8 % Fund IV Mar-06 (A) 1,660 1,357 (0.5 )% Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 (A) 317 272 (1.6 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 3,016 3,550 3.8 % Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 251 412 (6.0 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) Sep-04 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A 19.4 % FRID (GAGFAH) Mar-05 Closed Nov-14 N/A N/A (0.3 )% FRIC (Brookdale) Mar-06 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A (1.6 )% FICO (Intrawest) Aug-06 (A) (100.0 )% FHIF (Holiday) Dec-06 (A) 459 459 1.8 % FECI (Florida East Coast Railway/Florida East Coast Industries) Jun-07 Feb-18 351 409 (2.0 )% MSR Opportunities Fund I A Aug-12 Aug-22 99 149 12.8 % MSR Opportunities Fund I B Aug-12 Aug-22 25 37 12.7 % MSR Opportunities Fund II A Jul-13 Jul-23 93 118 8.1 % MSR Opportunities Fund II B Jul-13 Jul-23 1 2 7.6 % MSR Opportunities MA I Jul-13 Jul-23 21 27 8.2 % Italian NPL Opportunities Fund Dec-13 Sep-24 216 231 (C) Fortress Equity Partners Mar-14 Mar-24 186 156 (C) Continued on next page. 58 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Three Months Ended Inception March 31, Inception March 31, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 to Date (D) 2017 2016 Publicly Traded Permanent Capital Vehicles Drive Shack Inc. (E) Jun-98 Permanent $ 680 $ 680 N/A N/A 11.1 % New Residential Investment Corp. May-13 Permanent 3,782 2,689 N/A 11.3 % 15.8 % Eurocastle Investment Limited (E) Oct-03 Permanent 587 608 N/A 6.9 % 9.5 % New Media Investment Group Inc. Feb-14 Permanent 712 637 N/A 9.8 % 7.9 % New Senior Investment Group Inc. Nov-14 Permanent 1,020 1,024 N/A 10.2 % 10.1 % Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC (E) May-15 Permanent 1,035 1,135 N/A 8.9 % 13.3 % Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds Jun-02 Non-redeemable 39 116 5.9 % (G) (G) Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Closed Nov-15 N/A N/A 2.8 % N/A N/A Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 5.6 % N/A N/A Fortress Redwood Fund LTD Aug- 13 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A (3.5 )% N/A N/A Fortress Partners Fund LP Jul-06 Non-redeemable 6 139 1.6 % (G) (G) Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP Nov-06 Non-redeemable 3 89 1.7 % (G) (G) Fortress Centaurus Global Funds Jun-14 Closed Sep-16 N/A 206 (3.1 )% N/A 1.8 % Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Closed Jun-16 N/A 176 (3.8 )% N/A 1.5 % Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opp's Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,743 4,524 10.7 % 2.4 % 0.6 % Drawbridge Special Opp's Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,171 1,121 9.5 % 2.2 % (1.3 )% Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 139 170 9.2 % (G) (1.1 )% Worden Fund II Aug-10 Closed Feb-16 N/A N/A 7.0 % N/A (2.7 )% Japan Income Fund (Yen only) Dec-13 Redeemable 143 116 (B) (B) (B) Third Party Originated Funds JP Funds (A) (G) Non-redeemable 783 735 (G) (G) (G) Value Recovery Funds and related assets (A) (G) Non-redeemable 48 80 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 59 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception March 31, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 March 31, 2017 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 594 $ 557 23.3 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 430 458 16.1 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 1,217 1,697 10.5 % Credit Opportunities Fund IV Feb-15 Feb-27 891 555 (C) FCO Managed Accounts (H) Sep-08 to Jun-12 Apr-22 to Dec-24 1,423 1,711 14.6 % FCO Managed Accounts (H) Mar-15 to Jun-15 Mar-25 to Feb-28 603 416 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 50 129 5.8 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 55 95 4.2 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 75 64 6.1 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 6 4 2.5 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 33 50 6.4 % Japan Opportunity Fund (Yen only) Jun-09 Jun-19 68 97 31.3 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 335 399 25.3 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 386 458 27.8 % Japan Opportunity Fund III (Dollar) Dec-14 Oct-24 470 470 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund III (Yen) Dec-14 Oct-24 700 693 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 21.2 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 145 184 8.3 % Global Opportunities Fund II Jul-15 Jul-26 229 78 (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 119 100 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 10 9 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 39 87 15.5 % Real Estate Opportunities Fund II May-14 May-27 1,000 1,000 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 21 35 11.3 % Secured Lending Fund I Oct-16 Mar-24 52 N/A (C) FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund (Yen) Mar-17 Mar-27 47 N/A (C) FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund (Dollar) Mar-17 Mar-27 100 N/A (C) Subtotal - all funds 30,684 30,770 Affiliated Manager, co-managed funds and managed accounts (I) 5,756 7,066 Total - Alternative Investments 36,440 37,836 Logan Circle 33,719 32,801 Total (J) $ 70,159 $ 70,637 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment have passed their contractual maturity date and are in the process of an orderly wind down. Although Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment, FICO (Intrawest) and FHIF (Holiday) have passed their contractual maturity, Fortress continues to actively manage the funds' portfolio of investments which include various operating companies. The publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Fund may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents ("PE style redemption"). The JP Funds' AUM includes $518.4 million of permanent equity which is not subject to redemption. The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 88% of our alternative investment AUM as of March 31, 2017 . 60 Table of Contents During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. During the second quarter of 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. (B) Represents the following: For the private equity funds and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, returns represent the current dividend yield which is calculated by annualizing the most recently declared base dividend and dividing the result by the closing stock price for the period. Excludes the impact of special dividends declared in connection with REIT compliance, which may increase returns. There can be no assurance regarding the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles' respective dividend yields, which may fluctuate meaningfully as a result of changes in the amount of dividends paid in the future and/or changes in their respective stock prices. Drive Shack Inc. elected not to pay a common stock dividend during the three months ended March 31, 2017. For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a "new issue eligible," single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. No return is shown for Japan Income Fund as returns are not an accurate performance metric for this fund. For funds that are closed, the return(s) that are disclosed for the periods subsequent to closing represents the fund's return through its closing date. (C) Generally, these funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment or commitment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. (D) For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. For the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, inception to date returns are through October 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Also see Note (G) below. (E) Effective December 2016, Newcastle Investment Corp. changed its name to Drive Shack Inc.. WWTAI was a private fund formed in July 2011 and formerly managed by Fortress. All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. For Eurocastle, March 31, 2017 AUM is as of December 31, 2016. (F) The returns for Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds exclude the performance of special investments and the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds redeemed all of their investors' liquid capital. On December 31, 2016, the Worden Fund redeemed all of their investors' liquid capital. As such, the remaining investor capital in these funds are comprised of sidepocket investments or redeeming capital accounts and their returns subsequent to the redemption of all investor liquid capital are not comparable to returns reported for prior historical periods. We began managing the non-Fortress originated JP Funds in March 2016. Their returns are not comparable since the majority of these funds were fully invested prior to Fortress becoming manager. We began managing the non-Fortress originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) AUM and returns shown for prior periods have not been adjusted for funds which no longer fall within the description of Note (C) above for the current period. (I) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts were transferred to Graticule, our Affiliated Manager. In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds. (J) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages CFT Co-invest Fund (CAD and USD) and FPRF. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any management fee paying assets at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II, GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH), FRID (GAGFAH), FRIC (Brookdale), FICO (Intrawest), Fortress Macro Funds, Fortress Macro MA1, Fortress Redwood Fund LTD, Worden Fund II and Net Lease Fund I had no AUM or were closed as of March 31, 2017 and 2016 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 61 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see " Segment Analysis" section herein. Three Months Ended March 31, Variance 2017 2016 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 126,169 $ 127,390 $ (1,221 ) Management fees: non-affiliates 14,223 13,419 804 Incentive income: affiliates 30,373 31,778 (1,405 ) Incentive income: non-affiliates 410 451 (41 ) Expense reimbursements: affiliates 58,294 55,291 3,003 Expense reimbursements: non-affiliates 619 1,157 (538 ) Other revenues 2,140 2,131 9 Total Revenues 232,228 231,617 611 Expenses Compensation and benefits 181,992 164,205 17,787 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 57,400 39,392 18,008 Interest expense 1,979 3,037 (1,058 ) Total Expenses 241,371 206,634 34,737 Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) 20,439 (16,673 ) 37,112 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (2,699 ) 2,699 Earnings (losses) from equity method investees (19,868 ) (20,780 ) 912 Total Other Income (Loss) 571 (40,152 ) 40,723 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (8,572 ) (15,169 ) 6,597 Income tax benefit (expense) 1,738 (783 ) 2,521 Net Income (Loss) $ (6,834 ) $ (15,952 ) $ 9,118 Allocation of Net Income (Loss): Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries $ (3,585 ) $ (7,426 ) $ 3,841 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders (3,249 ) (8,526 ) 5,277 $ (6,834 ) $ (15,952 ) $ 9,118 Factors Affecting Our Results During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. 62 Table of Contents Each of these factors is described below. Average Management Fee Paying AUM Average management fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital or book equity (as defined) for the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle), (iv) or the AUM for the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds. Average fee paying AUM for the Fortress Funds, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows (in millions): Private Equity Three Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles (A) Credit Hedge Funds (B) Credit PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (C) Logan Circle Total March 31, 2017 $ 6,614 $ 7,389 $ 8,718 $ 9,203 $ 4,394 $ 33,577 $ 69,895 March 31, 2016 $ 8,085 $ 6,795 $ 8,863 $ 9,331 $ 5,302 $ 31,990 $ 70,366 (A) Throughout 2016 and until their expiration in January 2017, certain publicly traded permanent capital vehicles had share repurchase programs to purchase common stock which reduced fee paying AUM upon repurchase. No shares were purchased under these programs during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . During the year ended December 31, 2016 and the three months ended March 31, 2016 , these repurchase programs resulted in an AUM decrease of $124.8 million and $42.0 million, respectively. (B) In March 2016 Fortress became investment manager of the JP Funds. (C) Liquid hedge funds includes average fee paying AUM of the Affiliated Manager of $4.3 billion and $4.5 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. In June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , the Fortress Convex Asia Funds had average fee paying AUM of $154.4 million, management fees of $1.1 million and no incentive income. During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds had average fee paying AUM of $205.0 million, management fees of $0.5 million, and incentive income of less than $0.1 million. We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. Fortress's senior living property management subsidiary, FHC Property Management ("Blue Harbor"), has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by New Senior Investment Group Inc. ("New Senior"). For these services, Fortress receives management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of returns (or in some cases taxable income) or operating results earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives 63 Table of Contents of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant private equity style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. As of March 31, 2017 , we had $22.6 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold which is eligible to generate future incentive income and thus potentially contribute to our earnings. As of December 31, 2016 , we had $23.2 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold. The decrease in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold was primarily related to (i) a net decrease in invested capital from our credit PE funds due to net distributions and (ii) certain permanent capital vehicles and a certain credit hedge fund not achieving their performance thresholds as compared to the prior period. These decreases in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold was partially offset by (i) new Logan Circle managed accounts, which exceeded their performance thresholds during the three months ended March 31, 2017 and (ii) a certain private equity fund and a certain permanent capital vehicle that were at or above their incentive income thresholds as of December 31, 2016 which had positive performance and raised capital during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Incentive eligible NAV is dependent on the performance of our funds which in turn is dependent on a number of factors, including but not limited to investment specific and overall market conditions, and the historical performance of our funds may not be indicative of future results. See " Performance of Our Funds" for additional information. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Our investment platform historically required changes in headcount, including changes in the number of hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as changes to leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house our employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount decreased to 1,054 asset management employees as of March 31, 2017 from 1,130 asset management employees as of March 31, 2016 primarily related to our liquid hedge fund business. Additionally, we had 1,582 employees as of March 31, 2017 at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities) which decreased compared to 1,885 such employees as of March 31, 2016 . Revenues Three months ended March 31 Total revenues were $232.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $0.6 million , compared to $231.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in revenues of $0.6 million was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $3.0 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates and (ii) $0.8 million in management fees from non-affiliates. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $1.4 million in incentive income from affiliates, (ii) $1.2 million in management fees from affiliates and (iii) $0.5 million in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $1.2 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $6.5 million from our liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016, Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party during the second quarter of 2016, the closing of the Fortress Centaurus Funds during the third quarter of 2016 and decreases in AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of our other liquid hedge funds, (ii) $5.6 million from our private equity funds as a result of net decreases in their average management fee paying AUM of $1.5 billion, (iii) $1.8 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds and (iv) $1.0 million from our credit PE funds as a result of net decreases in their average AUM of $0.1 billion. These decreases were partially offset by (i) $8.1 million related to permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , (ii) a net increase from our permanent capital vehicles of $3.0 million as a result of a net increase in their average AUM of $0.6 billion, (iii) an increase of $1.8 million related to the management of the JP Funds which began in March 2016 and (iv) a net increase of $0.8 million from our other credit hedge funds as a result of increases in their average AUM of $0.3 billion. The increase in management fees from non-affiliates of $0.8 million was primarily related to Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average AUM from non-affiliates of $1.5 billion. 64 Table of Contents The decrease in incentive income from affiliates of $1.4 million was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $14.0 million from our credit PE funds related to a decrease in non-clawbackable tax distributions and a decrease in non-clawbackable incentive income as a result of a decrease in proceeds from realization events, which result in the recognition of revenue as contingencies for repayment have been resolved and (ii) a $0.9 million decrease in crystallized incentive income earned from our liquid hedge funds. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a net increase of $10.6 million in incentive income from our permanent capital vehicles primarily related to New Residential and (ii) a net increase of $2.9 million from our credit hedge funds primarily due to an increase in incentive income earned on RCA distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $3.0 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our credit funds. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $0.5 million was primarily related to a decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our senior living property manager. Expenses Three months ended March 31 Expenses were $241.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $34.7 million , compared to $206.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in expenses is primarily due to (i) an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $18.0 million and (ii) an increase in compensation and benefits of $17.8 million . These increases were partially offset by a $1.1 million decrease in interest expense. Total compensation and benefits increased by $17.8 million primarily due to (i) a $13.9 million increase in profit sharing expenses related to our credit hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles, including the impact of tandem options, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests by employees in the respective funds, (ii) a $7.4 million increase in other payroll, taxes and benefits, primarily as a result of $12.0 million in non-cash expense related to the contribution to Fortress of interests in a Fortress Fund which were then granted to certain senior employees, (iii) a $6.5 million increase in discretionary bonus accruals and (iv) a $5.8 million increase in Principal Performance Payments in our credit and private equity businesses as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $14.3 million decrease in profit sharing expense primarily related to our credit PE funds as a result of a decrease in proceeds from realization events during the period and changes in the amount of profit sharing interest held by employees in the respective funds and (ii) a $1.6 million decrease in equity based compensation. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses of $18.0 million was due to an increase of $21.6 million in professional fees primarily related to $20.6 million of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . This increase was partially offset by decreases of (i) $1.8 million in depreciation and amortization, (ii) $1.1 million in general and other expenses and (iii) $0.7 million in market data costs. The decrease in interest expense of $1.1 million primarily related to a decrease in the average outstanding debt balance for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. The average outstanding debt balance decreased primarily from a $77.8 million repayment of a promissory note to a former principal during the third quarter of 2016. Current and Future Compensation Expense We seek to compensate our employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation and retention, within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. 65 Table of Contents In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our unvested equity-based awards outstanding as of March 31, 2017 of $61.1 million with a weighted average recognition period of 3.3 years. Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses, and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income when it becomes probable and reasonably estimable that incentive income will be received. Credit hedge fund and liquid hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund "net management fees" (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by business in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. As of March 31, 2017 , we have $1.3 billion of gross undistributed incentive income. If this incentive income were realized, we would also recognize an additional $541.6 million of compensation expense. From time to time, senior management engages a compensation consultant to provide management with surveys to help us understand how the compensation we offer to our employees compares to the compensation our peers offer to their employees. Other Income (Loss) Three months ended March 31 Other income (loss) was $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $40.7 million , compared to $(40.2) million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The net increase was primarily related to (i) a net realized and unrealized gain of $28.1 million in the fair value of our direct investments, primarily options and common stock held in our publicly traded private equity portfolio companies, for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to a net realized and unrealized loss of $3.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , resulting in a net increase of $31.4 million, (ii) a net realized and unrealized loss of $8.1 million in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to a net realized and unrealized loss of $13.2 million in the prior period, resulting in a net increase of $5.1 million and (iii) the recognition of a $2.7 million expense associated with an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Income Taxes Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under " Critical Accounting Policies" below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. Three months ended March 31 For the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $(1.7) million and $0.8 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense are (i) changes in annual taxable income applicable to Class A shareholders and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure, (iii) changes in deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance and (iv) the tax impact of RSUs that vested and were delivered at amounts different than their grant date estimated fair value. 66 Table of Contents Factors that impacted the period-over-period increase (decrease) in income taxes are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ 879 Change in foreign and state income taxes (B) (5,090 ) Change in mix of business (C) 82 Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (D) 3,105 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (E) (945 ) Change in deferred tax asset impact of equity compensation delivery (F) 526 Change in tax credits and other deductions (1,078 ) Total change (F) $ (2,521 ) (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are due to an increase or decrease in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders' ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) Primarily related to a decrease in foreign taxes due to a decrease in foreign-sourced income. (C) For the three months ended March 31, 2017 , the amount of income passed through to non-corporate tax paying shareholders was lower when compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , resulting in an increase in income tax expense in 2017. (D) Primarily related to the change in the valuation allowance associated with the portion of the deferred tax asset that would be realized only in connection with future capital gains. (E) Relates to the tax receivable agreement (discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein) which is not tax deductible and represents a significant permanent tax/GAAP difference. (F) As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 effective January 1, 2017 (see Note 1), tax shortfalls associated with RSU deliveries are prospectively recorded as income tax expense. Previously, tax shortfalls were recorded as income tax expense only to the extent Fortress did not have prior excess tax benefits. In 2016 Fortress had prior excess tax benefits, as such tax shortfalls associated with RSU deliveries were recorded as an adjustment to shareholders' equity. (G) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries Three months ended March 31 Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $(7.4) million to $(3.6) million , a decrease of $3.8 million , primarily attributable to a decrease of $4.5 million in the amount of consolidated net loss allocable to the FOG units held by the principals and a decrease of $0.6 million in Others' interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The $4.5 million decrease in the amount of consolidated net loss allocable to the FOG units held by the principals was primarily a result of a decrease of $10.3 million in Fortress's shareholders' net loss in Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . 67 Table of Contents Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. Because of such differences in our segments' strategies and investor terms, each segment requires different types of management focus and those segments are managed separately. For segment results of operations, the amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , interest expense, foreign currency transactions and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (primarily held by the Principals) and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, "Financial Statements Segment Reporting." "Distributable earnings" attributable to the Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote by Fortress's CODM (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were earned on a quarterly basis, less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, c. adding the receipt of cash or proceeds from the sale of shares received (a) as incentive income from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (b) pursuant to the exercise of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, in excess of their strike price, d. adding incentive income received from third parties which is subject to contingent repayment less incentive income from third parties that is no longer subject to contingent repayment, Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain investments in the Fortress Funds and certain other interests or assets that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, including dividends, from these funds, less (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, less (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on options held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on derivatives, direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) subtracting management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of options from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, 68 Table of Contents Expenses (iv) adding or subtracting the employee profit sharing portion of (a) incentive income described in (i) above to match the timing of the expense with the revenue, (b) unrealized gains (losses) related to foreign exchange derivative contracts used to economically hedge future estimated incentive income and (c) intrinsic clawback, if any, which represents incentive income previously received from a fund that would be clawed back if the fund were liquidated at the end of the period at its NAV, (v) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including grants to employees of tandem options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, grants to employees of equity interests in Fortress Funds and portfolio company investments, RSUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense) and restricted shares), (vi) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (vii) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units, and (viii) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (see Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein). Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 20,168 $ 25,758 $ (5,590 ) Incentive Income Segment revenues total $ 20,168 $ 25,758 $ (5,590 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 12,339 $ 14,446 $ (2,107 ) Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $2.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $20.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net decrease of $5.6 million , compared to $25.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was primarily attributable to decreases from Fund V, Fund V Coinvestment, Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment, FHIF, and the MSR Opportunities Funds as a result of decreases in average AUM due to return of capital distributions and/or a decrease in the average market value of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of management fees as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $7.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net decrease of $2.3 million, compared to $10.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $1.9 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) a $0.4 million net decrease in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $1.2 million, compared to $(1.1) million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to a $1.3 million impairment of a certain private equity investment during the three months ended March 31, 2016 . 69 Table of Contents Permanent Capital Vehicles The following table presents our results of operations for our permanent capital vehicles segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 30,200 $ 27,302 $ 2,898 Incentive Income 15,847 2,200 13,647 Segment revenues total $ 46,047 $ 29,502 $ 16,545 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 19,476 $ 9,150 $ 10,326 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $10.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $30.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $2.9 million compared to $27.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of $3.6 million from New Residential and New Media related to increases in average AUM as a result of equity raised during 2017 and 2016. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.5 million from FTAI as a result of a decrease in average AUM due to losses and distributions during 2017 and 2016 as fees are based on net equity. Incentive income was $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $13.6 million , compared to $2.2 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $11.1 million in incentive income related to New Residential and (ii) $3.0 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.5 million in incentive income related to New Media for the three months ended March 31, 2017 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $27.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $6.2 million, compared to $21.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to net increases of (i) $4.4 million in compensation and benefits expense, (ii) $2.3 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and (iii) $0.3 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of $0.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 70 Table of Contents Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 37,459 $ 37,099 $ 360 Incentive Income 31,918 7,196 24,722 Segment revenues total $ 69,377 $ 44,295 $ 25,082 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 27,943 $ 14,262 $ 13,681 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $13.7 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $37.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $0.4 million , compared to $37.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in management fees were primarily attributable to increases of (i) $1.8 million related to the JP Funds, as Fortress was appointed the investment manager in March 2016 and (ii) $1.1 million related to the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in average AUM. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $2.2 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds and (ii) $0.5 million from the Worden Funds and Value Recovery Funds for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $31.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $24.7 million , compared to $7.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $23.3 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and (ii) $1.5 million in incentive income generated from other investments. The increase of $23.3 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds was attributable primarily to increases of (i) $19.9 million in incentive income as a result of higher returns for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) $3.4 million in RCA distributions. Expenses Expenses were $43.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $12.9 million, compared to $30.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in expenses was attributable to increases of (i) $9.4 million in profit sharing expense and $1.9 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments related to the increase in incentive income as described above and (ii) $1.7 million in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , an increase of $1.6 million, compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily related to (i) a $1.2 million increase in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds and (ii) a $0.3 million increase in net investment income generated from other investments for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 71 Table of Contents Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 29,795 $ 30,842 $ (1,047 ) Incentive Income 54,934 52,793 2,141 Segment revenues total $ 84,729 $ 83,635 $ 1,094 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 27,498 $ 28,112 $ (614 ) Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $0.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $29.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net decrease of $1.0 million , compared to $30.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was attributable to decreases of (i) $3.2 million primarily related to Credit Opportunities Fund I, II and III and related managed accounts and Japan Opportunity Funds I and II as a result of a decrease in their average AUM primarily due to net capital distributed during 2017 and 2016, (ii) $0.3 million related to Real Estate Opportunities Funds I and II and Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $2.0 million related to Credit Opportunities Funds IV and related managed accounts as a result of an increase in their average AUM primarily due to net capital contributed during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) $0.5 million related to Global Opportunities Fund II. Incentive income was $54.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $2.1 million compared to $52.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in incentive income is primarily attributed to (i) a net increase of $28.1 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunity Funds I, II and III, (ii) a $4.5 million net increase in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Fund III and related managed accounts and (iii) a $0.8 million increase in incentive income received from the Real Estate Opportunities Funds I. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of $31.2 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Funds I and II and related managed accounts. Expenses Expenses were $60.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $2.0 million, compared to $58.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to increases of $1.5 million and $1.3 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and profit sharing compensation expense, respectively, related to the increase in incentive income as described above. These increases were partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in compensation and benefits expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $0.3 million, compared to $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to a $0.3 million increase in distribution of earnings related to realization events in our credit PE funds. 72 Table of Contents Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 317 $ 6,636 $ (6,319 ) Incentive Income 1,471 (1,471 ) Segment revenues total $ 317 $ 8,107 $ (7,790 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 8,003 $ 1,446 $ 6,557 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $6.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net decrease of $6.3 million , compared to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $4.6 million from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016, (ii) $0.7 million from Fortress Partners Funds as a result of a decrease in average AUM, (iii) $0.5 million related to Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party during the second quarter of 2016 and (iv) $0.5 million related to Fortress Centaurus Global Funds which were closed by Fortress during the third quarter of 2016. There was no incentive income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Expenses Expenses were $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a decrease of $7.3 million, compared to $9.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $3.8 million in compensation and benefits expense, (ii) $3.0 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (iii) $0.5 million in profit sharing compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Earnings from the Affiliated Manager Earnings from the Affiliated Manager was $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , an increase of $0.2 million, compared to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in earnings from the Affiliated Manager was primarily due to an increase in Graticule's earnings, which was primarily a result of an increase in net performance by the Affiliated Manager during the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $9.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $6.8 million, compared to $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to (i) a $9.7 million increase in distribution of earnings related to realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds and (ii) a $0.8 million decrease in impairment charges with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $2.2 million decrease in earnings from our investments in our liquid hedge funds and (ii) a $1.5 million decrease in gains primarily related to a $1.7 million gain recognized from the sale of certain software and technology-related assets during the the three months ended March 31, 2016 . 73 Table of Contents Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 14,596 $ 13,588 $ 1,008 Incentive Income 354 354 Segment revenues total $ 14,950 $ 13,588 $ 1,362 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 1,298 $ 775 $ 523 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $0.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $14.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $1.0 million , compared to $13.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in management fees is primarily attributed to a net increase in average AUM by Logan Circle for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , a net increase of $0.4 million , compared to none for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in incentive income is primarily the result of returns exceeding performance thresholds for the three months ended March 31, 2017 for a certain fund and new managed accounts, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , an increase of $0.9 million, compared to $12.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in expenses primarily attributable to increases of (i) $0.7 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Unallocated Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ Pre-tax distributable loss $ (22,295 ) $ (3,734 ) $ (18,561 ) The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , interest expense, foreign currency transactions and interest income. Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $18.6 million primarily due to an increase of $20.6 million in expenses incurred by Fortress related to our proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . This increase was partially offset by (i) a $1.1 million decrease in interest expense primarily related to the promissory note to a former principal to purchase his Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares and (ii) a $0.9 million decrease in foreign currency transaction losses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 74 Table of Contents Embedded Gains (Losses) The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of March 31, 2017 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment $ 4,586 $ 4,586 $ N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 70,104 21,719 48,385 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 141,208 4 141,204 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 10,769 273 10,496 N/A Real Assets Fund 775 775 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 112,899 56,930 55,969 N/A Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Funds) 33,146 16,726 16,427 (7 ) Real Estate Opportunities Funds 13,992 9,895 4,097 N/A Secured Lending Fund I 45 45 N/A N/A MSR Opportunities Funds 2,200 1,655 545 N/A Italian NPL Opportunities Fund 4,921 3,239 1,682 N/A Other Funds (combined) Private investment #1 239,964 207,348 32,616 N/A Private investment #2 39,502 553 38,949 N/A Permanent capital vehicles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 2,275 78 2,197 N/A Drive Shack (NYSE: DS) 717 60 657 N/A New Residential (NYSE: NRZ) 8,805 413 8,392 N/A New Media (NYSE: NEWM) 1,064 54 1,010 N/A New Senior (NYSE: SNR) 1,763 229 1,534 N/A FTAI (NYSE: FTAI) (D) 6,031 6,283 N/A (252 ) Other Hedge fund sidepocket investments 7,796 4,841 3,099 (144 ) Direct investments - Other 57,996 23,265 34,770 (39 ) Total $ 760,558 $ 353,610 $ 407,390 $ (442 ) (A) Represents the net asset value ("NAV") of Fortress's investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortress's cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments recorded for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. (D) All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering ("IPO") in May 2015. Excludes the FTAI shares received at IPO as incentive income, with a fair value of $5.1 million as of March 31, 2017 . Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3, "