ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Group's condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as "condensed consolidated financial statements" or "historical condensed consolidated financial statements") included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Proposed Acquisition by SoftBank On February 14, 2017, Fortress entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with SB Foundation Holdings LP, a Cayman Islands exempted limited partnership ("Parent"), and Foundation Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("Merger Sub"), pursuant to which, among other things, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent (the "Merger"). At the effective time of the Merger, each Class A share issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time (subject to certain exceptions) and each restricted stock unit with respect to the Class A shares outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be converted into the right to receive $8.08 in cash, without interest, less any applicable taxes required to be withheld. Each Class B share outstanding immediately prior to the effective time will be canceled and retired in exchange for no consideration. There are no appraisal or dissenters' rights available with respect to the Merger. The Merger Agreement also provides that the Company's shareholders may also receive up to two regular quarterly dividends prior to the closing, each in an amount not to exceed $0.09 per Class A share. On May 5, 2017 and February 27, 2017, Fortress declared quarterly cash dividends of $0.09 per Class A share for the first quarter of 2017 and the fourth quarter of 2016, respectively, and will not pay any dividends with respect to periods ending after March 31, 2017 while the Merger Agreement remains in effect. Our board of directors, acting on the unanimous recommendation of a special committee consisting entirely of independent and disinterested directors (the "Special Committee"), unanimously approved the terms of the Merger Agreement and unanimously recommended the approval of the Merger by the Company's shareholders (the "Board Recommendation"). At a Special Meeting of Shareholders held on July 12, 2017, the shareholders of Fortress approved the Merger. Consummation of the Merger is subject to certain customary conditions, including, without limitation, the approval by the holders of a majority of the Class A shares and Class B shares (voting as one class) and the receipt of certain governmental and regulatory approvals. In addition, the obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to consummate the Merger are subject to, among other conditions, the absence of a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Merger Agreement), and the receipt of consent of advisory clients representing at least 87.5% of Base Aggregate Management Fees (as defined in the Merger Agreement). The Company has made customary representations and warranties in the Merger Agreement and has agreed to customary covenants, including with respect to, among other things, the operation of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries prior to the closing. In addition, the Merger Agreement contains a customary "no shop" provision that, in general, restricts the Company's ability to solicit alternative acquisition proposals and to provide nonpublic information to and engage in discussions or negotiations regarding alternative acquisition proposals, subject to a customary "fiduciary out" exception. The Merger Agreement contains certain customary termination rights, including, without limitation, if the Merger is not consummated on or before December 31, 2017. Upon termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, including with respect to the Company's entry into an agreement with respect to a Superior Offer (as defined in the Merger Agreement), the Company will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $98.4 million . If the Merger Agreement is terminated by Parent or the Company following withdrawal or modification of the Board Recommendation based on an Intervening Event (as defined in the Merger Agreement), the Company will be required to pay Parent a termination fee of $131.1 million . Parent has secured from SoftBank Group Corp. ("SoftBank") committed equity financing for the entire amount of the purchase price payable under the Merger Agreement, and the Company has received a corresponding limited guarantee from SoftBank that also requires SoftBank to comply with certain specified covenants under the Merger Agreement. The Merger Agreement permits 46 the syndication of a portion of Parent's equity, subject to certain conditions and limitations, provided that no such syndication will reduce SoftBank's obligations under the equity commitment letter or limited guarantee. At the completion of the equity syndication period specified under the Merger Agreement, Parent had not entered into any investment agreements with any potential equity investors. In connection with the Logan Circle Sale Agreement (as defined below), on July 7, 2017, Fortress, Parent and Merger Sub entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement Amendment), which amends the Merger Agreement. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement Amendment, among other things, Parent consented to the entry into the Logan Circle Sale Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby. On February 14, 2017, concurrently with the entry into the Merger Agreement, Parent entered into a Founders Agreement (the "Founders Agreement") with the Company, FIG Corp., FIG Asset Co. LLC (together with FIG Corp., the "Buyers"), each of the Principals and the Principals' related parties that own FOGUs (collectively with the Principals, the "Sellers"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Buyers will purchase from the Sellers 100% of the FOGUs that are not already owned by the Company and its subsidiaries of each of the FOG entities. At the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Founders Agreement, which is to occur substantially concurrently with the closing of the Merger, each FOGU will be acquired from the Sellers in exchange for $8.08 in cash, subject to reduction for certain items. Each Seller will place 50% of the after-tax proceeds from the sale of its FOGUs into escrow at the closing. These escrowed proceeds and retained investments will be invested in funds and investment vehicles of the Company or SoftBank, or in stock of SoftBank, among other things. The Closing under the Founders Agreement is subject to certain conditions, including, without limitation, the satisfaction of the conditions to the Merger. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, on February 14, 2017, Parent entered into a Voting and Support Agreement (each, a "Support Agreement") with each Principal and his related parties that own Class A or Class B shares (the "Supporting Members"). The Support Agreements generally require that the Supporting Members vote their Covered Securities (as defined in the Support Agreement) of the Company that represent, in the aggregate, 34.99% of the total voting power of the Company, in favor of the adoption of the Merger Agreement and against any competing acquisition proposals, subject to the limitations set forth therein. Subject to certain exceptions, the Support Agreements prohibit transfers by the Supporting Members of any of their Covered Securities. In connection with entering into the Merger Agreement, on February 14, 2017, FIG Corp. entered into a Waiver Agreement (the "TRA Waiver") with certain other subsidiaries of the Company and the Principals, effective as of the closing, pursuant to which, among other things, the Principals waive their rights to receive any payments under the tax receivable agreement arising out of the transactions contemplated by the Founders Agreement and other transactions occurring after February 14, 2017. With respect to all previous exchanges for which a tax receivable agreement obligation is still outstanding, the waivers and amendments provided for in the TRA Waiver will generally have the effect of reducing and/or deferring the payments to which the Principals would otherwise have been entitled under the tax receivable agreement. In connection with their execution of the Founders Agreement, each of the Principals entered into an Amended and Restatement Employment, Non-Competition, and Non-Solicitation Agreement with FIG LLC, an operating subsidiary of the Company. The employment agreements will become effective on and subject to the closing and will have an initial five -year term. In connection with entering into the Founders Agreement, the Second Amended and Restated Fortress Investment Group LLC Principal Compensation Plan (the "PCP") will be further amended and restated, effective as of and subject to the closing, to make certain clarifying and conforming changes. Under the PCP, the Principals will continue to receive annual payments based on their respective success in raising and investing new and existing funds and the performance of the Fortress funds during a given fiscal year and, for the credit hedge fund business, on the performance of the existing AUM of Fortress's flagship hedge funds during a given year. On February 14, 2017, the Board, having determined that it was in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to amend the Company's Fourth Amended and Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement (the "LLC Agreement"), approved an amendment to the LLC Agreement (the "Amendment"). The Amendment amends and restates Section 12.8 of the LLC Agreement, providing that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for any action, claim or proceeding arising out of or relating to the LLC Agreement, the Company or its business or affairs. 47 Logan Circle Sale On July 7, 2017, Fortress Asset Management LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "LP Seller"), Fortress Asset Management GP LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "GP Seller" and, together with the LP Seller, the "Sellers"), Logan Circle, and Logan Circle Partners GP, LLC, a Pennsylvania limited liability company (the "General Partner"), and in a limited capacity, FIG LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, each of which is an indirect subsidiary of Fortress, entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Logan Circle Sale Agreement") with MetLife, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Parent Buyer"), pursuant to which, among other things, the Parent Buyer will purchase from the Sellers all of the Sellers' interests in Logan Circle and the General Partner (the "Logan Circle Sale"). The sale was completed on September 15, 2017. The aggregate purchase price was approximately $250.0 million , subject to certain customary adjustments and an allocation of $55.0 million of the purchase price to an employee long-term incentive plan. The Company's carrying amount of assets and liabilities in Logan Circle and the General Partner was $0.8 million , resulting in a gain on sale of $188.6 million , net of selling expenses. Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $36.1 billion in AUM as of September 30, 2017 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of our over 1,750 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, receive reimbursements of certain expenses from funds we manage and earn investment income (loss) from our investments in our funds. We continue to invest capital in our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was mixed for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , with positive performance in some funds and negative performance in others, and overall our segment operating results (excluding the impact of $27.8 million of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank) were up in comparison to the same period of 2016 . For more information about these topics, please refer to " Assets Under Management" and " Performance of our Funds" below. As of September 30, 2017 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $14.2 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America, the Caribbean and Western Europe; and (ii) permanent capital vehicles, which includes publicly traded companies that are externally managed by Fortress pursuant to management agreements and a senior living property management business. The publicly traded companies invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets, including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing related assets, media assets, senior living properties and transportation and infrastructure assets. All of the capital of Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Investors ("WWTAI"), formerly a private fund managed by Fortress, was contributed to Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC ("FTAI") which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $16.8 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager or co-manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity ("PE") funds which are comprised of a family of "credit opportunities" funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of "real assets" funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in the following principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $5.1 billion of AUM which includes (i) $5.1 billion of AUM relating to funds managed by Graticule Asset Management Asia ("Affiliated Manager" or "Graticule") as a result of the transition of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts into an autonomous business in January 2015 and (ii) less than $0.1 billion of AUM in funds which invest in Fortress Funds, an externally managed fund and direct investments. Graticule is an external manager in which Fortress has a minority interest and accounts for using the equity method. Fortress also received fees for providing infrastructure services (technology, back office and related services) to Graticule through the termination of the infrastructure services agreement in May 2016. 48 Logan Circle represented our traditional asset management business, which was sold in September 2017, providing institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our "fund investors"). An "alternative" asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Our private equity business also manages permanent capital vehicles, also described below. In addition, our liquid hedge fund business includes funds managed by the Affiliated Manager. Private equity style funds are typically "closed-end" funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may "draw" or "call" this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are publicly traded entities which are externally managed by us. "Externally managed" means that their senior management is typically employed by us and that they rely on us for their decision making. In exchange, we receive management fees, incentive income and, when we assist these entities in raising equity capital, options to purchase their common stock. "Publicly traded" means that their equity, in the form of common stock, is typically traded on a major public stock exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, their equity investors (stockholders) may trade in and out of their positions, but Fortress continues to earn management fees and incentive income regardless of any turnover in ownership. These entities have indefinite lives and typically pay dividends or distributions to their stockholders only from earnings, while capital is reinvested. Hedge funds are typically "open-end" funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. Our credit hedge funds include the Mount Kellett Funds of which Fortress is co-manager. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements pursuant to our management agreements. For the Affiliated Manager, we receive a percentage of its earnings. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In addition, Fortress typically receives a number of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold by any such entity when raising equity capital. The options received by Fortress typically have a strike price equal to the market price of the relevant stock on the day of issuance and a ten-year term. If the value of the stock were to increase during the term of the option, the value received by Fortress upon exercise would exceed the strike price paid by Fortress. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors, also known as our "assets under management" or "AUM;" Earn attractive returns on the investments we make; and Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. 49 Assets Under Management Management fee paying assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf, when the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles raise capital such as in an equity offering or when our Affiliated Manager receives more capital. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments and return of capital distributions : In "closed-end" funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Similarly, AUM decreases in publicly traded investment vehicles, including the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, when return of capital distributions are made to investors. Redemptions : In "open-end" funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or "redeemed," at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. In addition, from time to time we may enter into transactions to manage or co-manage third party originated funds. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under " Assets Under Management." Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under " Performance of Our Funds." Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds, private equity funds and publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a "high water mark" for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the "preferred" return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in a fund is realized, subject to a "clawback." At the termination of a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or "clawed back") to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. 50 We generally earn incentive income from publicly traded permanent capital vehicles based on a percentage of operating results in excess of specified returns to shareholders, generally calculated on a cumulative but not compounding basis. Generally, incentive income is earned quarterly and once incentive is earned, it is not subject to clawback. However, if at a later date the total incentive income received by us is in excess of the cumulative amount calculated as of this later date, we would have to make up that difference in order for us to begin earning incentive income again. Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the fund's assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the fund's remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the fund's remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or manner which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources," " Debt Obligations," and " Covenants." We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. 51 Equity-based compensation means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of not requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based compensation, are discussed in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. In addition, we hold options in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned ("clawed back") to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the condensed consolidated balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Statement of Operations Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash, including profit sharing compensation. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash and is broken out from total compensation in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Equity-based compensation includes (i) RSUs (which have a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued), (ii) restricted shares, (iii) grants to employees of tandem options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (iv) grants to employees of equity interests in Fortress Funds and portfolio company investments. 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest expense. 4) Taxes. 52 Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. The primary measure of operating performance used by management is "Distributable Earnings," which is further discussed in the "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. The sale of Logan Circle was completed on September 15, 2017. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. See "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the nine months ended September 30, 2017, interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency transactions and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals) and income tax expense. Management assesses the performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see " Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. 53 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on AUM, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements from our funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues - both at Fortress and within our funds - depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and related financial and economic conditions. U.S. and global financial and economic conditions have a substantial impact on the success of our business strategy, including our ability to effect realizations and make new investments. In addition, equity market conditions impact the ability of our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments and the ability of our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of the debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds are directly and indirectly exposed to the debt markets: we invest in debt instruments, our funds borrow money to make investments and our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Our portfolio companies also require access to financing for their operations and refinancing of their debt. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. In general, strong financial and economic conditions including equity and debt markets enable us to execute our business strategy and generate attractive returns while dampening distressed investment strategies, and periods of weakening economies and markets and increased volatility can also present opportunities to invest at reduced valuations and in distressed asset classes, while negatively impacting fees, realizations and value creation. For example, a significant decline in the value of our funds' investments would require that our funds satisfy minimum return or "high water mark" requirements before generating incentive income and could subject us to "clawback" payments relating to incentive income previously collected. For hedge funds, opportunities to generate returns depend on their investment strategies, which may benefit from market declines or volatility. Investor sentiment, both domestically and globally, remained upbeat in the third quarter encouraged by global economic growth and constructive headway towards tax reform from Washington, D.C. In response to the impact from hurricanes Harvey and Irma in the southeastern United States, Donald Trump and the Democratic Party came to an agreement in early September to incorporate measures allowing the debt ceiling to be raised into an emergency funding package for disaster recovery efforts. These efforts alleviated any concerns for the time being that the government would run out of money as soon as early-October, which may have turned out to be the case had a pact not been reached. Two weeks after the agreement, the Republicans released an initial sketch of their proposed framework containing language aimed at lowering the tax burden for businesses as well as the middle class. Risk assets applauded the move and the "reflation" theme which elevated risk assets after last November's election returned to guide the S&P 500 and Dow Jones Industrial Average indices to record highs at quarter-end. Globally, positive data indicative of a robust and synchronized global economic recovery motivated the International Monetary Fund to revise their global GDP growth projections for 2017 and 2018 higher to 3.6% and 3.7%, respectively. Broadly, inflation in developed markets has remained soft creating a "goldilocks" environment as a result of the combination of moderate to strong economic growth with mild inflation. The manufacturing sector was a key driver throughout the quarter bolstered by rising demand for goods from China. Imports from China in September jumped 18.7% year-over-year, well above expectations, providing a jolt to production and exports elsewhere in the globe. Sentiment in the sector has been soaring, especially in the Eurozone and United States, highlighted by the Purchasing Managers' Index indicators in each region reaching multi-year highs. Equity markets in the United States began the quarter strong as the S&P 500 Index posted gains of 1.93% in July led by the Technology sector, notably the "FANG" stocks (Facebook, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet) which surged 9.36% collectively as a group. Tensions with North Korea and anxiety with regard to the debt ceiling propelled the VIX, the United States equity "fear indicator", above 16.00 briefly in the middle of August before regressing back closer to 10.00 by month-end as markets grinded out a small gain for the month of August. September was more analogous to July as the broader markets returned to record highs with strong performance in the Financial and Energy sectors, rather than the Technology sectors, pushing the market higher. The S&P Bank ETF finished the month up 8.51% owing to a hawkish Federal Open Market Committee and the anticipation of fiscal reform propelling yields higher as the 10 year US treasury yield rose 0.22% for the month. The SPDR S&P Oil & Gas ETF advanced 13.28% in September as the generic front-month contract in WTI crude oil increased 9.40% over the same timeframe. Energy prices in September increased after refiners in the Gulf Coast turned operations back on after hurricane Harvey and projections for global oil demand increased while concern of increasing United States shale production abated in the short-term to some degree. Prior to normalizing in September, the short-end of the United States treasury bill curve inverted with bills maturing in October carrying a higher yield than those coming due three months later as a result of concern around the government's ability to satisfy principal obligations in October because of the debt ceiling. The intermediate and long end of the United States treasury 54 Table of Contents yield curve continued to flatten in July and August before bear steepening in September with climbing fiscal reform expectations. With interest rates low globally, the high-yield and leveraged loan credit markets benefited from demand for yield from investors globally and spreads closed the quarter at or near record lows. Even with the Federal Open Market Committee ("FOMC") hiking rates twice already in 2017, financial conditions in the United States were the easiest in two years largely due to the rally in equities and credit spreads to record highs and lows, respectively. Economic data in the United States was generally stronger over the third quarter. Non-farm payrolls for September were worse than expected, reporting a loss of 33,000 jobs, which was attributed to the temporary negative impact from hurricanes Harvey and Irma. Employment data was strong aside from that blip as payrolls averaged 153,500 jobs added over the months of July and August and the unemployment rate now stands at 4.2%, the lowest since February of 2001. Core inflation rose to 2.2% year-over-year as the trend of decelerating wireless telephone service prices finally came to a halt and the base effects from oil were a boost to headline inflation. Survey data was strong in both the manufacturing and service sectors with Purchasing Managers' Index readings published by the Institute for Supply Management of 60.8 and 59.8 representing the highest levels since 2004 and 2005, respectively. On par with expectations, the FOMC announced at their September meeting they would begin tapering their balance sheet starting in October after it had expanded to over $4.4 trillion as they embarked on a quantitative easing program after the financial crisis. The immediate reaction in financial markets was minimal as the Committee telegraphed the action in advance; although the Committee conveyed a more hawkish tone than expected. Although the FOMC's preferred inflation measure, core personal consumption expenditures, remains below the Committee's stated objective of sustained inflation of 2.0%, the core of the Committee has indicated a willingness to attribute the lower level to "transitory effects" and attach more importance to the positive economic and labor data. Consequently, odds priced into the fixed income markets that the FOMC would increase the benchmark Federal Funds rate by another 0.25% at their December meeting rose to 70% by quarter-end. Europe's economic recovery continued accelerating and optimism continued to gain momentum in the third quarter as the European Commission's economic sentiment indicator's September reading was the highest in over a decade at 113. Additionally, the Eurozone Purchasing Managers' Index published by Markit reached multi-year highs. Labor data continued improving as the Eurozone's unemployment rate of 9.1% in August was the lowest since 2009. The region posted better than expected headline inflation of 1.5% year-over-year. However, removing the effects of higher energy prices the core inflation rate remains well below the European Central Bank's ("ECB") 2.0% target with a reading of 1.1%. The Euro has also had a deflationary impact as the currency has continued appreciating against other currencies especially the US dollar, which the Euro appreciated 3.40% against in the quarter. The combination of a healthy economy, stronger corporate earnings reported for the second quarter as well as monetary policy remaining accommodative led risk assets higher. The ECB continues to acknowledge policy will remain loose for the time being but indicated they may announce plans to begin reducing the pace or quantity of the bank's asset purchase programme at their October meeting. Italy was the best performing market in the region during the quarter after the Italian government announced plans to rescue two struggling banks at the end of June as the FTSEMIB Index posted a gain of 10.26%. French assets rallied as President Emmanuel Macron and his newly formed party, "En Marche!", made strides towards implementing policy objectives by announcing pro-business reforms. Similar to the United States, interest rates in most of the region rallied during July and August before selling off in September as expectations for the ECB to announce tapering plans at their October meeting increased. A notable exception to the selloff in sovereign interest rates was Portugal as the country's benchmark 10 year yield was 0.64% lower over the duration of the quarter after the country recaptured its investment grade rating. In Germany, Angela Merkel was victorious in the federal elections and retained her role as Chancellor of Germany although the party she represents, the Christian Democratic Union, performed worse than in past years. Consequently, her party has been forced to form a coalition between three parties for the first time in Germany's history by attempting to come to an agreement with the Christian Social Union and the Free Democrat parties. The populist Eurosceptic Alternative for Germany party finished third in the election gathering 13% of the vote as they became the first far-right wing political party to enter the Bundestag since 1961. Tensions in Spain rose towards quarter-end as Catalonia prepared to vote on October 1 st in a referendum on the region's independence from Spain. The Spanish government condemned the vote straining the relationship between the wealthy region and Madrid. Lastly, Brexit discussions continue dragging along at an extremely slow pace with the dispute over the 60 billion Euro exit bill the European Union is attempting to levy on Britain remaining a hindrance to progress. Surging inflation induced by a weaker British Pound in the aftermath of the Brexit vote has compelled the Bank of England ("BOE") to adopt a hawkish stance and indicate a willingness to hike interest rates which has influenced fixed income markets to price in a roughly 3 in 4 chance the bank will increase the official bank rate by 0.25% the next time the Committee convenes in early November. China's government continued focusing on deleveraging and emphasizing a stable economic backdrop to avoid potential disruptions in anticipation of the National People's Congress, the national legislature of the People's Republic of China held every five years, beginning on October 19 th . The current leadership, the Communist Party of China, is seeking to retain their grip on leadership at the gathering by affirming the need to project social and economic strength leading into the meeting. Efforts to contain surging property prices across China have shown signs of success as September's report on the average price of new homes across 70 Chinese cities rose 8.4% year-over-year, the weakest increase since July 2016. China's reform of state-owned enterprises also forged ahead as depicted by the announcement in late August of a merger between a major power producer, China Guodian 55 Table of Contents Corporation, and a major coal producer, Shenhua Group, confirming their fixation on cutting down on overcapacity in those sectors. Manufacturing production in China reached its highest level since late 2014 in September indicating an increase of 8.10% year-over-year. Consumers expressed a positive outlook exhibited by the consumer confidence index reaching 114.7 in August, the second highest reading since 2003. The central bank, the People's Bank of China ("PBOC"), indicated their intention to relax capital controls and stop intervening in foreign exchange markets on a daily basis. The bank's actions along with stronger domestic demand for foreign currency and a stronger US dollar in September weakened the Yuan by 2.06% from September 8 th through quarter-end after the currency had appreciated 6.25% year-to-date to that point. Strong domestic demand from China and the synchronous global economic recovery supported emerging markets during the third quarter as investors continued allocating assets into emerging market equity and fixed income markets in particular. JP Morgan's Emerging Markets Bond ETF rallied 3.0% over the quarter while the MSCI Emerging Market Equity ETF posted a gain of 8.26%. Higher oil prices supported Russian markets as the MSCI Russia Index rose 14.88%. The best performing equity market in the quarter was Argentina as the country's Merval Index rallied 19.01% driven by stronger oil prices and a weaker Argentine Peso. Brazil's central bank, the Central Bank of Brazil ("BCB"), cut its benchmark interest rate by 1.00% on two separate occasions lowering their benchmark Selic rate from 10.25% to 8.25%. Fixed income and equity markets both rallied as Brazil's benchmark 10 year yield moved 0.80% lower and the Bovespa Index surged 18.11%. Record low interest rates globally continued to attract investors to the higher yield of emerging markets relative to developed markets pushing the yield on the Bloomberg's Emerging Market Sovereign Bond Index to its lowest point since inception of the Index in 2014 at 5.167% on September 8th. News in the Asia-Pacific region centered around North Korea especially in response to Kim Jong Un's army firing missiles over Japan. Concerns about potential military action reached its height throughout August and early-September before settling down into quarter-end. Relative to performance in the first half of the year, the South Korean market was more sensitive to tensions as the Kospi 200 Index gained only 1.45% in the third quarter although the Index was still up 21.64% year-to-date at that point. Comparable to the rest of the world, economic data reported from Japan was stronger as GDP growth in the second quarter was Japan's highest since the first quarter of 2015. The positive release indicated the sixth straight quarter of growth in the country, the longest streak in eleven years. Although economic data was firm, inflation remained well below the Bank of Japan's (BOJ) goal of 2.0% inflation over the long-term. Against that backdrop, BOJ Governor Haruhiko Kuroda re-iterated his pledge for accommodative monetary policy for the foreseeable future until there were more signs inflation was progressing towards their long-term objective. Shinzo Abe, the Prime Minister of Japan, announced in September that snap elections would be held on October 22nd as he attempted to take advantage of the lack of a formidable opposition party in order to retain a majority in the Lower House. As expected, Abe secured a victory which should allow him to move forward and implement his desired reforms. The Australian economy was another bright spot with the assistance of stronger import demand from China and iron ore prices rallying over 20% across July and August before selling off in September. Coinciding with the rally in ore prices the Australian dollar appreciated 3.38% and 5.50% against the US and New Zealand dollar's, respectively. The weakness in the New Zealand dollar was caused by a rise in expectations the Reserve Bank of New Zealand ("RBNZ") would keep interest rates on hold longer than previously expected in light of a string of weaker inflation and growth. Additionally, general elections in New Zealand held in September failed to produce a clear winner leaving the direction of the country temporarily uncertain until a coalition is formed between parties and a leader for the island emerges. Market conditions over the last several years have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets since the financial crisis in 2008 increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the equity and debt markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of sufficient liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Improved economic conditions over the last several years, including relatively low interest rates, have benefited our business in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, a financing environment that has enabled our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to secure long-term financing, refinance debt at attractive levels, raise public and private equity capital and improve portfolio company profitability. Improving economic conditions and higher valuations in private equity funds have also contributed to our ability to raise capital for new investment vehicles and realize investments in existing funds. While improved conditions have created a more challenging environment for identifying new investments, we continue to deploy meaningful amounts of new capital. Market conditions have at times, especially in the second half of 2015, however, have negatively affected the terms on which some of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and portfolio companies were able to raise debt and equity capital but, as a general matter, positively impacted the environment for making new investments. Following a period of deleveraging, that resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices, near-term investment opportunities have become more sporadic in nature given pricing and 56 Table of Contents market dynamics. However, potential opportunities exist, particularly where access to capital is restricted and in Europe where economies may remain uncertain. Despite the uncertain economic recovery, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as discussed above and illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. The strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on the fees associated with traditional investment products relative to the fees charged by alternative investment managers, on returns available from traditional investment products and to a lesser extent on interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns of investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Solving for funding gaps and low interest rates have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. However, investors in the alternative investment space have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid time frame than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. In addition, investors have continued to focus on fees and weak performance of certain asset classes within the alternative investment industry, tempering positivity in the industry. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e., "private equity style") funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternative asset management industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As illustrated in " Performance of Our Funds" section herein, we have generated positive returns in some funds and weaker returns in others. As illustrated in " Assets Under Management" section herein, we have been able to raise additional capital in our funds. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the current market environment, as well as market conditions and other factors. The strength of the industries or sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: financial services (particularly loan servicing and consumer finance), transportation and infrastructure, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate), and senior living. The overall performance of our funds may be affected by market conditions and trends related to these industries and sectors. Within the financial services industry, the regulatory pressure on banks in the U.S. after the financial crisis contributed to a positive market for the expansion of non-bank financial institutions. This development has recently led to increased regulatory focus on non-bank financial institutions, resulting in slower growth and increased costs within some of our financial servicing investments. With respect to mortgage servicing rights, excess mortgage servicing rights and other servicing related investments, the timing, size and potential returns of future investments may be less attractive than prior investments due to a number of factors including interest rates and increased competition. In addition, regulatory and government sponsored entity approval processes have been more extensive and taken longer, which has increased the time and effort required to complete transactions. Worldwide growth in trade and transportation continued to expand albeit at a more modest pace than in the previous years, with growing demand for both cargo and passenger-related transportation infrastructure and equipment. The senior living sector continues to benefit from a favorable consolidation and supply/demand dynamics as well as an appreciation of related real estate values, though market conditions became more challenging toward the end of 2016 and into the first quarter of 2017. European markets have presented opportunities for distressed investments in country specific markets such as Italy. In addition, our credit PE funds, from time to time, may have significant investments in particular companies, industries or sectors. The credit PE funds have significant investments in certain sectors including commercial real estate, wireless spectrum and energy. 57 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity Credit (I) Funds (I) Permanent Capital Vehicles Hedge Funds (J) PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (J) Logan Circle (K) Total AUM December 31, 2016 $ 6,532 $ 6,961 $ 8,803 $ 9,306 $ 4,589 $ 33,436 $ 69,627 Capital raised (A) 835 226 1,061 Increase in invested capital 133 44 894 2 1,073 Redemptions (B) (160 ) (160 ) RCA distributions (C) (497 ) (497 ) Return of capital distributions (D) (1,083 ) (150 ) (7 ) (1,630 ) (170 ) (3,040 ) Adjustment for capital reset (E) (183 ) (183 ) Crystallized incentive income (F) (111 ) (111 ) Equity buyback (5 ) (5 ) Change in AUM of the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds (325 ) 718 393 Divested business (37,098 ) (37,098 ) Net client flows (traditional) 1,230 1,230 Income (loss) and foreign exchange (G) 667 282 479 (23 ) (18 ) 2,432 3,819 AUM September 30, 2017 (H) $ 6,249 $ 7,923 $ 8,452 $ 8,364 $ 5,121 $ $ 36,109 (A) Includes offerings of shares by our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to September 30, 2017 , if any. Redemptions are further detailed below. (C) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts ("RCA") in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Fund, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (D) For private equity funds and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity funds and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. For certain hedge funds, return of capital distributions represent distributions from special investments to investors who fully redeemed their capital from the fund. For credit hedge funds, return of capital distributions include income distributions from Fortress Japan Income Fund. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, return of capital distributions represent the portion of dividends paid and categorized as return of capital. (E) In July 2017, the AUM of a certain credit PE fund was adjusted. (F) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (G) Represents the change in AUM resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the funds. For certain private equity funds, also includes the impact of a change in AUM basis from invested capital to fair value for certain portfolio companies which became publicly traded. (H) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 3 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses therein. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (I) As of September 30, 2017 , the private equity funds and credit funds had approximately $0.6 billion and $6.9 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $3.0 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. (J) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts transitioned to Graticule under the Affiliated Manager. As of September 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, liquid hedge funds AUM included $5.1 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively, related to the Affiliated Manager and credit hedge funds AUM included $1.4 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, related to co-managed funds. (K) Fortress sold the Logan Circle business in September 2017. 58 Table of Contents Redemptions Certain of the credit hedge funds allow investors to request that their capital be returned generally on an annual or semi-annual basis. Return of capital requests must be received at least 45 or 90 days prior to the redemption date and related payments are made subsequent to the redemption date. For instance, within the flagship credit hedge fund the 2017 return of capital request notice date is October 2, 2017 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2017. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or "RCA." During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. The Mount Kellett Funds, JP Funds and the Value Recovery Funds are not subject to redemptions. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, are shown in the table below. The table below does not include redemptions related to funds managed by the Affiliated Manager. Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through September 30, 2017 for the credit hedge funds (in thousands): Request/Notice Receipt Period Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (A) Remaining Outstanding Requests 2017 $ 1,407,935 (D)(E) $ $ 1,407,935 2016 737,539 331,159 436,165 2015 773,268 551,777 282,725 Prior 231,860 (B) $ 2,358,685 (C) (A) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. (B) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (C) Reflects (i) $1.0 billion in RCAs which are to be paid over time as the underlying investments are realized and (ii) $1.4 billion of 2017 redemption requests outstanding as of September 30, 2017 . All or a portion of the $1.4 billion of 2017 redemption requests outstanding may also be deemed as RCA. Any 2017 redemption requests not deemed to be RCA will be paid in the first quarter of 2018. The determination of whether the current year's redemption requests are RCA is generally made by December 31. (D) Effective January 1, 2017, the remaining investor capital of the Worden Fund is comprised of RCA which is not subject to redemption. (E) In October 2017, Fortress's credit hedge funds received $11.1 million of additional redemption requests. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 59 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 September 30, 2017 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRR's Fund I Nov-99 Closed May-13 $ N/A $ N/A 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 In Liquidation 2.0 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 In Liquidation 0.9 % Fund IV Mar-06 (A) 1,430 1,522 (0.2 )% Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 (A) 201 280 (1.7 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 2,804 3,458 4.3 % Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 335 294 (5.5 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) Sep-04 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A 19.4 % FRID (GAGFAH) Mar-05 Closed Nov-14 N/A N/A (0.3 )% FRIC (Brookdale) Mar-06 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A (1.6 )% FICO (Intrawest) Aug-06 (A) (100.0 )% FHIF (Holiday) Dec-06 (A) 464 459 1.5 % FECI (Florida East Coast Railway/Florida East Coast Industries) Jun-07 Feb-18 465 379 (1.3 )% MSR Opportunities Fund I A Aug-12 Aug-22 80 123 12.3 % MSR Opportunities Fund I B Aug-12 Aug-22 20 31 12.2 % MSR Opportunities Fund II A Jul-13 Jul-23 82 105 7.4 % MSR Opportunities Fund II B Jul-13 Jul-23 1 2 6.9 % MSR Opportunities MA I Jul-13 Jul-23 19 24 7.6 % Italian NPL Opportunities Fund Dec-13 Sep-24 151 228 (C) Fortress Equity Partners Mar-14 Mar-24 197 166 (C) Continued on next page. 60 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Nine Months Ended Inception September 30, Inception September 30, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 to Date (D) 2017 2016 Publicly Traded Permanent Capital Vehicles Drive Shack Inc. (E) Jun-98 Permanent $ 681 $ 680 N/A N/A 10.6 % New Residential Investment Corp. May-13 Permanent 3,782 2,948 N/A 12.0 % 13.3 % Eurocastle Investment Limited (E) Oct-03 Permanent 745 486 N/A 6.6 % 7.8 % New Media Investment Group Inc. Feb-14 Permanent 707 637 N/A 9.5 % 8.5 % New Senior Investment Group Inc. Nov-14 Permanent 1,020 1,024 N/A 11.4 % 9.0 % Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC May-15 Permanent 988 1,071 N/A 7.3 % 10.6 % Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds Jun-02 Non-redeemable 38 101 5.9 % (G) (G) Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Closed Nov-15 N/A N/A 2.8 % N/A N/A Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 5.6 % N/A N/A Fortress Redwood Fund LTD Aug- 13 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A (3.5 )% N/A N/A Fortress Partners Fund LP Jul-06 Non-redeemable 121 1.6 % (G) (G) Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP Nov-06 Non-redeemable 78 1.7 % (G) (G) Fortress Centaurus Global Funds Jun-14 Closed Sep-16 N/A N/A (3.1 )% N/A (7.7 )% Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Closed Jun-16 N/A N/A (3.8 )% N/A N/A Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opp's Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,823 4,677 10.6 % 5.6 % 6.2 % Drawbridge Special Opp's Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,130 1,172 9.5 % 5.8 % 3.3 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 93 169 9.2 % (G) 3.0 % Worden Fund II Aug-10 Closed Feb-16 N/A N/A 7.0 % N/A (2.7 )% Japan Income Fund (Yen only) Dec-13 Redeemable 163 125 (B) (B) (B) Asset-Based Income Fund Jun-17 Redeemable 128 N/A (C) (C) N/A Third Party Originated Funds JP Funds (A) (G) Non-redeemable 709 780 (G) (G) (G) Value Recovery Funds and related assets (A) (G) Non-redeemable 34 41 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 61 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2017 2016 September 30, 2017 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 513 $ 588 22.9 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 337 457 15.6 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 943 1,473 10.3 % Credit Opportunities Fund IV Feb-15 Feb-27 1,036 684 (C) FCO Managed Accounts (H) Sep-08 to Jun-12 Apr-22 to Dec-24 1,081 1,634 14.2 % FCO Managed Accounts (H) Mar-15 to Jun-15 Mar-25 to Feb-28 849 524 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 50 50 5.7 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 55 55 4.3 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 75 75 6.0 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 5 5 3.3 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 In Liquidation 33 6.1 % Japan Opportunity Fund (Yen only) Jun-09 Jun-19 61 118 27.7 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 314 397 22.6 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 360 479 27.8 % Japan Opportunity Fund III (Dollar) Dec-14 Oct-24 470 470 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund III (Yen) Dec-14 Oct-24 693 770 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Closed Dec-15 N/A N/A 21.2 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 129 200 7.8 % Global Opportunities Fund II Jul-15 Jul-26 47 252 (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 119 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 10 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 38 63 16.0 % Real Estate Opportunities Fund II May-14 May-27 1,000 1,000 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 18 29 11.5 % Secured Lending Fund I Oct-16 Mar-24 143 N/A (C) FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund (Yen) Mar-17 Mar-27 47 N/A (C) FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund (Dollar) Mar-17 Mar-27 100 N/A (C) Subtotal - all funds 29,654 30,666 Affiliated Manager, co-managed funds and managed accounts (I) 6,455 6,079 Total - Alternative Investments 36,109 36,745 Logan Circle (J) 33,386 Total (K) $ 36,109 $ 70,131 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment have passed their contractual maturity date and are in the process of an orderly wind down. Although Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment, FICO (Intrawest) and FHIF (Holiday) have passed their contractual maturity, Fortress continues to actively manage the funds' portfolio of investments which include various operating companies. The publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Fund may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents ("PE style redemption"). The JP Funds' AUM includes $481.0 million of permanent equity which is not subject to redemption. The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 85% of our alternative investment AUM as of September 30, 2017 . 62 Table of Contents During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. During the second quarter of 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. (B) Represents the following: For the private equity funds and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, returns represent the current dividend yield which is calculated by annualizing the most recently declared base dividend and dividing the result by the closing stock price for the period. Excludes the impact of special or supplemental dividends, including those declared in connection with REIT compliance, which may increase returns. There can be no assurance regarding the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles' respective dividend yields, which may fluctuate meaningfully as a result of changes in the amount of dividends paid in the future and/or changes in their respective stock prices. Drive Shack Inc. elected not to pay a common stock dividend during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a "new issue eligible," single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. No return is shown for Japan Income Fund as returns are not an accurate performance metric for this fund. For funds that are closed, the return(s) that are disclosed for the periods subsequent to closing represents the fund's return through its closing date. (C) Generally, these funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment or commitment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. (D) For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. For the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, inception to date returns are through October 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. For the Worden Fund, inception to date returns are through December 31, 2016. Also see Note (G) below. (E) Effective December 2016, Newcastle Investment Corp. changed its name to Drive Shack Inc. For Eurocastle, September 30, 2017 AUM is as of June 30, 2017. (F) The returns for Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds exclude the performance of special investments and the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds redeemed all of their investors' liquid capital. On December 31, 2016, the Worden Fund redeemed all of their investors' liquid capital. As such, the remaining investor capital in these funds are comprised of sidepocket investments or redeeming capital accounts and their returns subsequent to the redemption of all investor liquid capital are not comparable to returns reported for prior historical periods. We began managing the non-Fortress originated JP Funds in March 2016. Their returns are not comparable since the majority of these funds were fully invested prior to Fortress becoming manager. We began managing the non-Fortress originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) AUM and returns shown for prior periods have not been adjusted for funds which no longer fall within the description of Note (C) above for the current period. (I) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts were transferred to Graticule, our Affiliated Manager. In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds. (J) Fortress sold the Logan Circle business in September 2017. (K) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages CFT Co-invest Fund (CAD and USD) and FPRF. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any management fee paying assets at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II, GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH), FRID (GAGFAH), FRIC (Brookdale), FICO (Intrawest), Fortress Macro Funds, Fortress Macro MA1, Fortress Redwood Fund LTD, Fortress Convex Asia Funds, Fortress Centaurus Global Funds, Worden Fund II and Net Lease Fund I had no AUM or were closed as of September 30, 2017 and 2016 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 63 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see " Segment Analysis" section herein. Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 363,108 $ 377,269 $ (14,161 ) $ 117,229 $ 123,491 $ (6,262 ) Management fees: non-affiliates 41,132 42,066 (934 ) 12,435 14,455 (2,020 ) Incentive income: affiliates 145,219 71,334 73,885 59,434 17,396 42,038 Incentive income: non-affiliates 1,761 40,862 (39,101 ) 570 31,000 (30,430 ) Expense reimbursements: affiliates 167,860 166,041 1,819 55,073 54,602 471 Expense reimbursements: non-affiliates 1,182 4,064 (2,882 ) 271 1,258 (987 ) Other revenues 13,318 23,832 (10,514 ) 9,351 18,943 (9,592 ) Total Revenues 733,580 725,468 8,112 254,363 261,145 (6,782 ) Expenses Compensation and benefits 546,037 539,643 6,394 200,645 184,159 16,486 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 146,583 122,304 24,279 45,183 38,321 6,862 Interest expense 6,451 8,662 (2,211 ) 2,246 2,643 (397 ) Total Expenses 699,071 670,609 28,462 248,074 225,123 22,951 Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) 21,706 (22,077 ) 43,783 19,640 1,862 17,778 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (2,699 ) 2,699 Earnings (losses) from equity method investees 29,221 (2,420 ) 31,641 22,577 27,467 (4,890 ) Gain on sale of Logan Circle 188,638 188,638 188,638 188,638 Total Other Income (Loss) 239,565 (27,196 ) 266,761 230,855 29,329 201,526 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 274,074 27,663 246,411 237,144 65,351 171,793 Income tax benefit (expense) (58,795 ) (11,863 ) (46,932 ) (46,840 ) (7,008 ) (39,832 ) Net Income (Loss) $ 215,279 $ 15,800 $ 199,479 $ 190,304 $ 58,343 $ 131,961 Allocation of Net Income (Loss): Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries $ 115,200 $ 7,609 $ 107,591 $ 101,484 $ 27,181 $ 74,303 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders 100,079 8,191 91,888 88,820 31,162 57,658 $ 215,279 $ 15,800 $ 199,479 $ 190,304 $ 58,343 $ 131,961 Factors Affecting Our Results During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. 64 Table of Contents Each of these factors is described below. Average Management Fee Paying AUM Average management fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital or book equity (as defined) for the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle), (iv) or the AUM for the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds. Average fee paying AUM for the Fortress Funds, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows (in millions): Private Equity Nine Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles (A) Credit Hedge Funds (B) Credit PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (C) Logan Circle (D) Total September 30, 2017 $ 6,581 $ 7,633 $ 8,549 $ 9,042 $ 4,617 $ 32,801 $ 69,223 September 30, 2016 $ 7,470 $ 6,770 $ 8,963 $ 9,347 $ 5,051 $ 32,861 $ 70,462 Private Equity Three Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles (A) Credit Hedge Funds (B) Credit PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (C) Logan Circle (D) Total September 30, 2017 $ 6,549 $ 7,878 $ 8,381 $ 8,881 $ 4,840 $ 29,979 $ 66,508 September 30, 2016 $ 6,856 $ 6,745 $ 8,885 $ 9,363 $ 4,670 $ 33,733 $ 70,252 (A) During 2017 and 2016, certain publicly traded permanent capital vehicles had share repurchase programs to purchase common stock which reduces fee paying AUM upon repurchase. During the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and year ended December 31, 2016, these repurchase programs resulted in an AUM decrease of $5.2 million and $124.8 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2017 , there is remaining capacity under an active share repurchase program to purchase up to $194.2 million of common stock which would reduce fee paying AUM upon repurchase. (B) In March 2016 Fortress became investment manager of the JP Funds. (C) Liquid hedge funds includes average fee paying AUM of the Affiliated Manager of $4.5 billion and $4.3 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, and $4.8 billion and $4.2 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. In June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. Through the date of transfer during the second quarter of 2016, the Fortress Convex Asia Funds had average fee paying AUM of $162.3 million, management fees of $1.1 million and there was no incentive income. During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. For the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2016, the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds had average fee paying AUM of $172.3 million and $90.8 million, respectively, management fees of $1.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, and incentive income of less than $0.1 million in each period. (D) Fortress sold the Logan Circle business in September 2017. Through the date of sale, Logan Circle had average fee paying AUM of $34.9 million and $36.3 million for the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2017, respectively. We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. Fortress's senior living property management subsidiary, FHC Property Management ("Blue Harbor"), has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by New Senior Investment Group Inc. ("New Senior"). For these services, Fortress receives management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. 65 Table of Contents Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of returns (or in some cases taxable income) or operating results earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant private equity style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. As of September 30, 2017 , we had $22.1 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold which is eligible to generate future incentive income and thus potentially contribute to our earnings. As of December 31, 2016 , we had $23.2 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold. The decrease in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold was primarily related to (i) certain credit PE funds which had net decreases in invested capital due to net distributions, partially offset by positive performance during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , (ii) a certain permanent capital vehicle that was at or above its incentive income threshold as of December 31, 2016 , but did not achieve its performance threshold as of September 30, 2017 and (iii) the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns incentive income subsequent to September 15, 2017. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in a certain permanent capital vehicle that was at or above its incentive income threshold as of December 31, 2016 and raised capital during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . Additionally, the September 30, 2017 incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold decreased from $24.6 billion as of June 30, 2017 primarily related to (i) certain credit PE funds which had net decreases in invested capital due to net distributions, partially offset by positive performance during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , (ii) a certain permanent capital vehicle that was at or above its incentive income threshold as of June 30, 2017, but did not achieve its performance threshold as of September 30, 2017 and (iii) the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns incentive income subsequent to September 15, 2017. Incentive eligible NAV is dependent on the performance of our funds which in turn is dependent on a number of factors, including but not limited to investment specific and overall market conditions, and the historical performance of our funds may not be indicative of future results. See " Performance of Our Funds" for additional information. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Our investment platform historically required changes in headcount, including changes in the number of hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as changes to leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house our employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount decreased to 969 asset management employees as of September 30, 2017 from 1,096 asset management employees as of September 30, 2016 primarily related to sale of the Logan Circle business during September 2017. Additionally, we had 1,470 employees as of September 30, 2017 at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities) which decreased compared to 1,841 such employees as of September 30, 2016 . Revenues Nine months ended September 30 Total revenues were $733.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $8.1 million , compared to $725.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . 66 Table of Contents The increase in revenues of $8.1 million was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $73.9 million in incentive income from affiliates and (ii) $1.8 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $39.1 million in incentive income from non-affiliates, (ii) $14.2 million in management fees from affiliates, (iii) $10.5 million in other revenues, (iv) $2.9 million in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates and (v) $0.9 million in management fees from non-affiliates. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $14.2 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $12.8 million from our liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with the Affiliated Manager in May 2016, Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party during the second quarter of 2016, the closing of the Fortress Centaurus Funds during the third quarter of 2016 and decreases in AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of our other liquid hedge funds, (ii) $12.8 million from our private equity funds as a result of net decreases in their average management fee paying AUM of $0.9 billion, (iii) $3.4 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds and (iv) $5.7 million from our credit PE funds as a result of decreases in their average fee paying AUM of $0.3 billion. These decreases were partially offset by (i) an increase of $5.8 million related to permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress by New Residential during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period (ii) a net increase from our permanent capital vehicles of $11.0 million as a result of a net increase in their average AUM of $0.9 billion primarily related to capital raised by New Residential, (iii) an increase of $1.4 million related to the management of the JP Funds which began in March 2016 and (iv) a net increase of $2.4 million from our other credit hedge funds as a result of increases in their average AUM of $0.1 billion. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $0.9 million was primarily related to (i) a decrease from our permanent capital vehicles for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns management fees subsequent to September 15, 2017. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $73.9 million was primarily attributable to (i) a net increase of $60.5 million in incentive income from our permanent capital vehicles, primarily related to an increase of $60.5 million in incentive income from New Residential, (ii) a net increase of $12.2 million from our credit PE funds primarily related to an increase in non-clawbackable incentive income attributable to an increase in proceeds from realization events, which result in the recognition of revenue as contingencies for repayment have been resolved, (iii) a $4.0 million increase from our PE funds as a result of an increase in non-clawbackable tax distributions and (iv) a $0.4 million increase in incentive income from Logan Circle. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $2.7 million net decrease from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income earned on RCA distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and (ii) a $0.4 million net decrease in crystallized incentive income earned from our liquid hedge funds. The decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $39.1 million was primarily related to a decrease in crystallized incentive income from a certain credit PE managed account. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $1.8 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our credit business, partially offset by decreases in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our private equity funds and permanent capital vehicles. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $2.9 million was primarily related to a decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our senior living property manager as a result of a decrease in the number of third party properties managed as compared to the prior period. The decrease in other revenues of $10.5 million was primarily attributable to a reduction in income from other investments as a result of a decrease in distributions and realization events which resulted in the recognition of non-clawbackable revenue as contingencies for repayment were resolved. Expenses Nine months ended September 30 Expenses were $699.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $28.5 million , compared to $670.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses is primarily due to (i) an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $24.3 million and (ii) an increase in compensation and benefits of $6.4 million . These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.2 million in interest expense. 67 Table of Contents Total compensation and benefits increased by $6.4 million primarily due to (i) a $31.9 million increase in discretionary bonuses, (ii) a $5.4 million increase in Principal Performance Payments in our private equity business and credit business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds, (iii) a $5.2 million increase in profit sharing expense related to our credit hedge funds and private equity funds as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds and (iv) a $5.3 million increase in equity based compensation. This increase was partially offset by a $42.0 million decrease in profit sharing expenses related to our credit PE funds and permanent capital vehicles, including the impact of tandem options, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses of $24.3 million was due to (i) a net increase of $29.4 million in professional fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period, primarily related to $27.8 million of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank and $5.3 million of expenses incurred related to the sale of the Logan Circle business and (ii) an increase of $3.9 million in rent expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $4.4 million in depreciation and amortization, (ii) $2.6 million in general and other expenses and (iii) $2.0 million in market data costs. The decrease in interest expense of $2.2 million primarily related to a decrease in the average outstanding debt balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. The average outstanding debt balance decreased primarily from repayment of a promissory note to a former principal. Revenues Three months ended September 30 Total revenues were $254.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $6.8 million , compared to $261.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in revenues of $6.8 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $30.4 million in incentive income from non-affiliates, (ii) $9.6 million in other revenues, (iii) $6.3 million in management fees from affiliates, (iv) $2.0 million in management fees from non-affiliates and (v) $1.0 million in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $42.0 million in incentive income from affiliates and (ii) $0.5 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $6.3 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $4.3 million from our credit PE funds as a result of net decreases in their average management fee paying AUM of $0.5 billion, (ii) $2.3 million related to permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress by New Residential during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , (iii) $1.6 million from our private equity funds as a result of net decreases in their average management fee paying AUM of $0.3 billion, (iv) $1.1 million from our liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of the closing of the Fortress Centaurus Funds during the third quarter of 2016 and decreases in AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of our other liquid hedge funds and (v) $1.0 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase from our permanent capital vehicles of $4.0 million as a result of a net increase in their average AUM of $1.1 billion, primarily related to capital raised by New Residential. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $2.0 million was primarily attributable to the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns a management fee subsequent to September 15, 2017. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $42.0 million was primarily attributable to (i) a $23.5 million net increase from our credit PE funds primarily related to an increase in non-clawbackable incentive income attributable to an increase in proceeds from realization events, which result in the recognition of revenue as contingencies for repayment have been resolved, (ii) a $17.3 million net decrease from our permanent capital vehicles primarily related to New Residential, (iii) a $4.0 million increase from our PE funds as a result of an increase in non-clawbackable tax distributions, (iv) a $0.5 million increase in crystalized incentive income earned from our liquid hedge funds and (v) a $0.4 million increase in incentive income from Logan Circle. These increases were partially offset by a $3.6 million decrease from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income earned on RCA distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds. The decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $30.4 million was primarily related to a decrease in crystallized incentive income from a certain credit PE managed account. 68 Table of Contents The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $0.5 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our credit business, partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our private equity funds and permanent capital vehicles. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $1.0 million was primarily related to a decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our senior living property manager as a result of a decrease in the number of third party properties managed as compared to the prior period. The decrease in other revenues of $9.6 million was primarily attributable to a reduction in income from other investments as a result of a decrease in distributions and realization events which resulted in the recognition of non-clawbackable revenue as contingencies for repayment were resolved. Expenses Three months ended September 30 Expenses were $248.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $23.0 million , compared to $225.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses is primarily due to (i) an increase in compensation and benefits of $16.5 million and (ii) a $6.9 million increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization). These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in interest expense. Total compensation and benefits increased by $16.5 million primarily due to (i) a $15.2 million increase in discretionary bonuses, (ii) a $5.4 million increase in equity based compensation, (iii) a $2.3 million increase in profit sharing expenses related to our private equity funds as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds and (iv) a $1.4 million increase in Principal Performance Payments in our private equity business and credit business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $5.6 million decrease in profit sharing expenses related to our credit hedge funds and credit PE funds as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds and (ii) a $2.0 million decrease in other payroll, taxes and benefits. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses of $6.9 million was due to (i) a net increase of $8.3 million in professional fees for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period, primarily related to $5.3 million in expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank and $2.8 million of expenses incurred related to the sale of the Logan Circle business and (ii) an increase of $1.2 million in rent expense. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $1.1 million in depreciation and amortization, (ii) $0.8 million in market data costs and (iii) $0.7 million in general and other expenses. The decrease in interest expense of $0.4 million primarily related to a decrease in the average outstanding debt balance for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. The average outstanding debt balance decreased primarily from the repayment of a promissory note to a former principal. Current and Future Compensation Expense We seek to compensate our employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation and retention, within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our unvested equity-based awards outstanding as of September 30, 2017 of $50.0 million with a weighted average recognition period of 2.9 years. 69 Table of Contents Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses, and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income when it becomes probable and reasonably estimable that incentive income will be received. Credit hedge fund and liquid hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund "net management fees" (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by business in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. As of September 30, 2017 , we have $1.4 billion of gross undistributed incentive income. If this incentive income were realized, we would also recognize an additional $556.9 million of compensation expense. From time to time, senior management engages a compensation consultant to provide management with surveys to help us understand how the compensation we offer to our employees compares to the compensation our peers offer to their employees. Other Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Other income (loss) was $239.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $266.8 million , compared to $(27.2) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Other income (loss) for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 included a gain of $188.6 million related to the sale of Logan Circle. Excluding the impact of the sale of Logan Circle, other income (loss) for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 was $50.9 million, a net increase of $78.1 million, compared to $(27.2) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . The net increase was primarily related to (i) a decrease of $35.1 million in net realized and unrealized losses in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period, (ii) net earnings from equity method investees of $29.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to net losses of $2.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , resulting in a net increase of $31.6 million, primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity and liquid hedge fund businesses, (iii) an increase of $5.4 million in net realized and unrealized gains in the fair value of our direct investments, primarily options and common stock held in our publicly traded private equity portfolio companies and (iv) the recognition of a $2.7 million expense associated with an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Three months ended September 30 Other income (loss) was $230.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $201.5 million , compared to $29.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Other income (loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2017 included a gain of $188.6 million related to the sale of Logan Circle. Excluding the impact of the sale of Logan Circle, other income (loss) for the three months ended September 30, 2017 was $42.2 million, a net increase of $12.9 million, compared to $29.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 . The net increase was primarily related to (i) an increase of $11.2 million in net realized and unrealized gains in the fair value of our direct investments, primary options and common stock held in our publicly traded private equity portfolio companies, for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period, (ii) a net realized and unrealized gain of $1.7 million in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to a net realized and unrealized loss of $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , resulting in a net increase of $5.3 million. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net earnings from equity method investees of $4.9 million, primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity business for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Income Taxes Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under " Critical Accounting Policies" below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. 70 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $58.8 million and $11.9 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense are (i) changes in annual taxable income applicable to Class A shareholders and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure, (iii) changes in deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance and (iv) the tax impact of RSUs that vested and were delivered at amounts different than their grant date estimated fair value. Three months ended September 30 For the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $46.8 million and $7.0 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense are (i) changes in annual taxable income applicable to Class A shareholders and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure, (iii) changes in deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance and (iv) the tax impact of RSUs that vested and were delivered at amounts different than their grant date estimated fair value. Factors that impacted the period-over-period increase (decrease) in income taxes are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ 48,493 Change in foreign and state income taxes (B) 5,830 Change in mix of business (C) (5,377 ) Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (D) (579 ) Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (E) (945 ) Change in deferred tax asset impact of equity compensation delivery (F) (252 ) Change in tax credits and other deductions (238 ) Total change (F) $ 46,932 (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are due to an increase or decrease in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders' ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) Primarily related to an increase in state taxes due to an increase in income. (C) For the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , the amount of income passed through to non-corporate tax paying shareholders was higher when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , resulting in an decrease in income tax expense in 2017. (D) Primarily related to the change in the valuation allowance associated with the portion of the deferred tax asset that would be realized only in connection with future capital gains. (E) Relates to the tax receivable agreement (discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein) which is not tax deductible and represents a significant permanent tax/GAAP difference. (F) As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-09 effective January 1, 2017 (see Note 1 to Part I, Item 1, "Financial Statements - Organization and Basis of Presentation - Recent Accounting Pronouncements"), tax shortfalls or excess tax benefits associated with RSU deliveries are prospectively recorded as income tax expense. Previously, tax shortfalls were recorded as income tax expense only to the extent Fortress did not have prior excess tax benefits. In 2016 Fortress had prior excess tax benefits, as such tax shortfalls associated with RSU deliveries were recorded as an adjustment to shareholders' equity. (G) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended September 30 Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries increased from $7.6 million to $115.2 million , an increase of $107.6 million , primarily attributable to an increase of $109.7 million in the amount of consolidated net income allocable to the FOG units held by the principals, partially offset by (i) a decrease of $0.5 million in Others' interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) a decrease of $1.6 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in 71 Table of Contents Fortress Operating Group primarily related to the issuance of Class A shares related to equity-based compensation and the conversion of FOG units by a former senior employee during the third quarter of 2016. The $109.7 million increase in the amount of consolidated net income allocable to the FOG units held by the principals was primarily a result of an increase of $248.4 million in Fortress's shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Three months ended September 30 Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries increased from $27.2 million to $101.5 million , an increase of $74.3 million , primarily attributable to an increase of $75.0 million in the amount of consolidated net income allocable to the FOG units held by the principals during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016 , partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group primarily related to the issuance of Class A shares related to equity-based compensation and the conversion of FOG units by a former senior employee during the third quarter of 2016. The $75.0 million increase in the amount of consolidated net income allocable to the FOG units held by the principals was primarily a result of an increase of $170.9 million in Fortress's shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. The sale of Logan Circle was completed on September 15, 2017. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. Because of such differences in our segments' strategies and investor terms, each segment requires different types of management focus and those segments are managed separately. For segment results of operations, the amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , interest expense with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency transactions and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (primarily held by the Principals) and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, "Financial Statements Segment Reporting." "Distributable earnings" attributable to the Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote by Fortress's CODM (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were earned on a quarterly basis, less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, c. adding the receipt of cash or proceeds from the sale of shares received (a) as incentive income from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (b) pursuant to the exercise of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, in excess of their strike price, d. adding incentive income received from third parties which is subject to contingent repayment less incentive income from third parties that is no longer subject to contingent repayment, 72 Table of Contents Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain investments in the Fortress Funds and certain other interests or assets that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, including dividends, from these funds, less (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, less (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on options held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on derivatives, direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) subtracting management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of options from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, and (iv) for 2017, subtracting the adjustment to the gain on sale of Logan Circle. Expenses (iv) adding or subtracting the employee profit sharing portion of (a) incentive income described in (i) above to match the timing of the expense with the revenue, (b) unrealized gains (losses) related to foreign exchange derivative contracts used to economically hedge future estimated incentive income and (c) intrinsic clawback, if any, which represents incentive income previously received from a fund that would be clawed back if the fund were liquidated at the end of the period at its NAV, (v) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including grants to employees of tandem options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, grants to employees of equity interests in Fortress Funds and portfolio company investments, RSUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense) and restricted shares), (vi) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (vii) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units, and (viii) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (see Note 5 to to Part I, Item 1, "Financial Statements - Income Taxes and Tax Related Payments"). Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 59,865 $ 72,681 $ (12,816 ) $ 19,612 $ 21,191 $ (1,579 ) Incentive Income 11,760 11,760 10,760 10,760 Segment revenues total $ 71,625 $ 72,681 $ (1,056 ) $ 30,372 $ 21,191 $ 9,181 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 60,111 $ 44,524 $ 15,587 $ 34,534 $ 13,803 $ 20,731 73 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $15.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $59.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $12.8 million , compared to $72.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was primarily attributable to decreases from Fund V, Fund V Coinvestment, Fund IV Coinvestment, FHIF, and the MSR Opportunities Funds as a result of decreases in average AUM due to return of capital distributions and/or a decrease in the average market value of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of management fees as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $11.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 related to the Italian NPL Opportunities Fund and MSR Opportunities Funds. Expenses Expenses were $26.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $0.5 million, compared to $27.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $4.5 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) a $0.6 million net decrease in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $4.6 million in profit sharing compensation expense and accruals for Principal Performance Payments related to the increase in incentive income as described above for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $15.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $16.0 million, compared to $(0.8) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to (i) a $14.9 million increase in the distribution of earnings related to realization events in our PE funds and (ii) a $1.3 million impairment of a certain private equity investment during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $20.7 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $19.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $1.6 million , compared to $21.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was attributable to a decrease of $2.5 million primarily from Fund V, Fund V Coinvestment and the MSR Opportunities Funds as a result of decreases in average AUM due to return of capital distributions and/or a decrease in the average market value of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of management fees, as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $0.9 million primarily attributable to Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment due to an increase in the average market value of certain portfolio companies for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $10.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 related to the Italian NPL Opportunities Fund and MSR Opportunities Funds. Expenses Expenses were $11.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $3.6 million, compared to $7.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to a $4.2 million in profit sharing compensation expense and accruals for Principal Performance Payments related to the increase in incentive income as described above. This increase was partially offset by (i) a $0.5 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) a $0.1 million net decrease in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 74 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Net investment income was $15.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $15.1 million, compared to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was attributable to an increase in the distribution of earnings related to realization events in our PE funds. Permanent Capital Vehicles The following table presents our results of operations for our permanent capital vehicles segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 92,370 $ 81,886 $ 10,484 $ 31,205 $ 27,456 $ 3,749 Incentive Income 121,670 26,191 95,479 57,575 10,271 47,304 Segment revenues total $ 214,040 $ 108,077 $ 105,963 $ 88,780 $ 37,727 $ 51,053 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 110,475 $ 41,174 $ 69,301 $ 46,482 $ 14,288 $ 32,194 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $69.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $92.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $10.5 million compared to $81.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $11.7 million from New Residential and New Media related to increases in average AUM as a result of equity raised during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) $0.5 million from Eurocastle related to an increase in average AUM during 2017. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $1.3 million primarily from FTAI as a result of a decrease in average AUM and (ii) $0.5 million from Blue Harbor for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $121.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $95.5 million , compared to $26.2 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $60.5 million in incentive income related to New Residential, (ii) $29.3 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle, (iii) $9.6 million in incentive income related to the exercise of our options and the resulting sale of a portion of the shares received in Eurocastle for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and (iv) $2.3 million in incentive income related to New Senior. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $4.0 million in incentive income related to the exercise of our options and resulting sale of shares in New Residential for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) $2.2 million in incentive income related to New Media for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $105.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $37.1 million, compared to $68.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $33.7 million in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) $10.0 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $5.6 million decrease in profit sharing compensation expense and (ii) a $1.0 million net decrease in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $2.4 million and $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. Net investment income consisted primarily of dividends from our investments held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 75 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $32.2 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $31.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $3.7 million compared to $27.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $3.9 million from New Residential and New Media related to increases in average AUM as a result of equity raised during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) $0.5 million from Eurocastle related to an increase in average AUM during 2017. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $0.4 million primarily from FTAI as a result of a decrease in average AUM and (ii) $0.3 million from Blue Harbor for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $57.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $47.3 million , compared to $10.3 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $24.4 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle, (ii) $17.3 million in incentive income related to New Residential, (iii) $9.6 million in incentive income related to the exercise of our options and the resulting sale of a portion of the shares in Eurocastle for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and (iv) $0.4 million incentive income related to New Media. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $4.0 million in incentive income related to the exercise of our options and resulting sale of shares in New Residential for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) $0.3 million in incentive income related to New Senior for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $43.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $19.3 million, compared to $24.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to increases of (i) $17.3 million in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) $4.2 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $1.5 million decrease in profit sharing compensation expense and (ii) a $0.7 million net decrease in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.1 million and $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Net investment income consisted primarily of dividends from our investments held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 112,045 $ 112,572 $ (527 ) $ 36,973 $ 38,100 $ (1,127 ) Incentive Income 74,831 84,015 (9,184 ) 28,145 44,256 (16,111 ) Segment revenues total $ 186,876 $ 196,587 $ (9,711 ) $ 65,118 82,356 $ (17,238 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 70,341 $ 76,242 $ (5,901 ) $ 24,538 $ 35,799 $ (11,261 ) 76 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $5.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $112.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $0.5 million , compared to $112.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Management fees decreased by $5.5 million primarily related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in management fees of $5.0 million primarily attributed to (i) $3.3 million related to the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in average AUM and (ii) $1.4 million related to the JP Funds, which Fortress became the investment manager in March 2016. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $74.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $9.2 million , compared to $84.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in incentive income was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $6.2 million in incentive income generated from other investments, (ii) $2.6 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds primarily related to a decrease in RCA distributions for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period and (iii) $0.8 million in incentive income from the Worden Fund. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $0.3 million in incentive income from the JP Funds and (ii) $0.1 million in incentive income related to the Fortress Japan Income Fund for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $121.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $2.2 million, compared to $123.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was attributable to a $6.3 million decrease in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. This decrease was partially offset by (i) a $1.7 million increase in compensation and benefits expense, (ii) a $1.3 million net increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) a $1.1 million increase in profit sharing expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $4.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $1.6 million, compared to $3.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily related to increases of (i) $0.8 million primarily in net investment income generated from other investments and (ii) $0.8 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $11.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $37.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $1.1 million , compared to $38.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Management fees decreased by $2.1 million primarily related to the the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds and the Value Recovery Funds for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $1.0 million primarily related to the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in average AUM. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $28.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $16.1 million , compared to $44.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in incentive income was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $11.6 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, (ii) $4.3 million in incentive income generated from other investments and (iii) $0.7 million in incentive income from the Worden Fund. The decrease of $11.6 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds was attributable to decreases of (i) $8.0 million in incentive income as a result of lower returns for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) $3.6 million in RCA distributions. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in incentive income from the JP Funds for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 77 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $42.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $5.5 million, compared to $48.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was attributable to decreases of $4.8 million and $4.0 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and profit sharing compensation expense, respectively, related to the decrease in incentive income as described above. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $3.0 million net increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) a $0.3 million increase in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $0.5 million, compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was attributed to increases of (i) $0.4 million primarily in net investment income generated from other investments and (ii) $0.1 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds. Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 89,114 $ 94,842 $ (5,728 ) $ 28,920 $ 33,182 $ (4,262 ) Incentive Income 116,958 196,131 (79,173 ) 42,096 57,880 (15,784 ) Segment revenues total $ 206,072 $ 290,973 $ (84,901 ) $ 71,016 $ 91,062 $ (20,046 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 55,773 $ 106,936 $ (51,163 ) $ 20,494 $ 31,550 $ (11,056 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $51.2 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $89.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $5.7 million , compared to $94.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Management fees decreased $14.1 million primarily attributed to (i) Credit Opportunities Funds II and III and related managed accounts and Japan Opportunity Funds I, II and III as a result of a decrease in their average AUM primarily due to net capital distributed during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) the Global Opportunities Funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in management fees of $8.4 million attributed to (i) $7.1 million related to Credit Opportunities Funds IV and related managed accounts as a result of an increase in their average AUM primarily due to net capital contributed during 2017 and 2016, (ii) $1.3 million primarily attributed to Secured Lending Fund I and FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, respectively. Incentive income was $117.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $79.2 million compared to $196.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in incentive income is primarily attributed to decreases of (i) $70.0 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Funds I and II and related managed accounts, (ii) $34.4 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunity Fund I, (iii) $7.2 million in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Fund I and REOC Fund and (iv) $4.7 million in incentive income received primarily from the Real Assets Fund for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $26.6 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunity Funds II and III, (ii) $8.5 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Fund III and related managed accounts and (iii) $2.0 million in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Fund II for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 78 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $159.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $38.6 million, compared to $198.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to decreases of $39.3 million and $1.3 million in profit sharing compensation expense and compensation and benefits expense, respectively. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $1.5 million net increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) a $0.5 million increase in accruals for Principal Performance Payments for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $9.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a decrease of $4.8 million, compared to $14.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in net investment income was primarily attributable to a $4.7 million decrease in distribution of earnings related to realization events in our credit PE funds. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $11.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $28.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $4.3 million , compared to $33.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Management fees decreased by $7.5 million primarily attributed to (i) Credit Opportunities Funds II and III and related managed accounts and Japan Opportunity Funds I, II and III as a result of a decrease in their average AUM primarily due to net capital distributed during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) the Global Opportunities Funds for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in management fees of $3.3 million attributed to (i) $2.6 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund IV and related managed accounts as a result of an increase in their average AUM primarily due to net capital contributed during 2017 and 2016 and (ii) $0.6 million primarily related to Secured Lending Fund I and FJOF3 Residential Coinvestment Fund, which commenced in the fourth quarter of 2016 and the first quarter of 2017, respectively. Incentive income was $42.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $15.8 million compared to $57.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in incentive income is primarily attributed to decreases of (i) $26.6 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Fund I and related managed accounts, (ii) $7.9 million in incentive income received from the Japan Opportunity Fund, (iii) $2.8 million in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Fund I and REOC Fund and (iv) $2.0 million in incentive income received primarily from the Real Assets Fund for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $13.6 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunity Funds II and III, (ii) $8.0 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Funds II and III and their related managed accounts and (iii) $2.0 million in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Fund II for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $55.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $8.3 million, compared to $63.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to decreases of $7.7 million and $1.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense and compensation and benefits expense, respectively. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $0.9 million increase in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and (ii) a $0.3 million net increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $0.6 million, compared to $3.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to a $0.7 million increase in distribution of earnings related to realization events in our credit PE funds. 79 Table of Contents Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 2,222 $ 13,391 $ (11,169 ) $ 1,583 $ 1,291 $ 292 Incentive Income 561 996 (435 ) 511 2 509 Segment revenues total $ 2,783 $ 14,387 $ (11,604 ) $ 2,094 $ 1,293 $ 801 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 17,732 $ (8,965 ) $ 26,697 $ 4,178 $ (4,978 ) $ 9,156 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $26.7 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $2.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $11.2 million , compared to $13.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in management fees was attributable to decreases of (i) $8.6 million primarily from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016, (ii) $2.0 million from Fortress Partners Funds as a result of a decrease in average AUM, (iii) $1.1 million related to Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party during the second quarter of 2016 and (iv) $1.1 million related to Fortress Centaurus Global Funds which were closed by Fortress during the third quarter of 2016. These decreases were partially offset by a $1.6 million increase in fees generated from other investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $0.4 million , compared to $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in incentive income was attributable to $0.9 million in incentive income received from Fortress Partners Funds during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $0.5 million in incentive income received from Drawbridge Global Macro Funds during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $7.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a decrease of $17.7 million, compared to $24.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $9.4 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses, (ii) $7.6 million in compensation and benefits expense and (iii) $0.7 million in profit sharing compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Earnings from the Affiliated Manager Earnings from the Affiliated Manager was $10.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $5.9 million, compared to $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in earnings from the Affiliated Manager was primarily due to an increase in Graticule's earnings, which was primarily a result of an increase in net performance by the Affiliated Manager during the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $11.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $14.7 million, compared to $(3.6) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to (i) an $11.2 million increase in distribution of earnings related to realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds, (ii) an $1.9 million decrease in impairment charges with respect to special investments in our liquid hedge funds and (iii) a $3.9 million decrease in losses in earnings from investments in our liquid hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.3 million in other 80 Table of Contents net investment income primarily attributed to a $1.7 million gain recognized from the sale of certain software and technology-related assets during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $9.2 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $1.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $0.3 million , compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of $1.4 million in fees generated from other investments. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million primarily from Fortress Partners Funds as a result of a decrease in average AUM for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period and the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds which were closed by Fortress during the third quarter of 2016. Incentive income was $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $0.5 million , compared to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in incentive income was attributable to a $0.5 million increase in incentive income received from Drawbridge Global Macro Funds during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a decrease of $5.0 million, compared to $7.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $3.4 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) $1.5 million in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Earnings from the Affiliated Manager Earnings from the Affiliated Manager was $4.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $1.3 million, compared to $2.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in earnings from the Affiliated Manager was primarily due to an increase in Graticule's earnings, which was primarily a result of an increase in net performance by the Affiliated Manager during the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $2.0 million, compared to $(1.7) million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to (i) a $1.9 million increase in earnings from investments in our liquid hedge funds and (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in impairment charges with respect to special investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.3 million in distribution of earnings related to realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds. Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 42,284 $ 42,622 $ (338 ) $ 12,806 $ 14,677 $ (1,871 ) Incentive Income 901 382 519 319 318 1 Segment revenues total $ 43,185 $ 43,004 $ 181 $ 13,125 $ 14,995 $ (1,870 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 168,719 $ 4,828 $ 163,891 $ 167,521 $ 1,944 $ 165,577 81 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $163.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $42.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $0.3 million , compared to $42.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in management fees is primarily attributed to the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns a management fee subsequent to September 15, 2017, partially offset by an increase in management fees as a result of the net increase in average AUM of Logan Circle through the date of sale in September 2017, as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $0.5 million , compared to less than $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in incentive income is primarily the result of returns exceeding performance thresholds for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 for certain managed accounts, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $43.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , an increase of $5.1 million, compared to $38.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to an increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses due to expenses incurred by Fortress in connection with the sale of the Logan Circle business which was completed in September 2017. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $169.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $168.9 million, compared to $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to the gain recognized on the sale of the Logan Circle business in September 2017. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $165.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $12.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net decrease of $1.9 million , compared to $14.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The decrease in management fees is primarily attributed to the sale of Logan Circle as Fortress no longer earns a management fee subsequent to September 15, 2017, partially offset by an increase in management fees as a result of the net increase in average AUM of Logan Circle through the date of sale in September 2017, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $14.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , a net increase of $1.4 million, compared to $13.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in expenses were primarily attributable to increases of $2.3 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses, of which $2.8 million was incurred by Fortress in connection with the sale of the Logan Circle business which was completed in September 2017, partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $169.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to the gain recognized on the sale of the Logan Circle business in September 2017. 82 Table of Contents Unallocated Nine Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 vs. 2016 2017 2016 $ 2017 2016 $ Pre-tax distributable loss $ (31,619 ) $ (9,962 ) $ (21,657 ) $ (6,424 ) $ (2,725 ) $ (3,699 ) The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of expenses incurred by Fortress related to the proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency transactions and interest income. Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $21.7 million primarily due to an increase of $27.8 million in expenses incurred by Fortress related to our proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 . This increase was partially offset by an increase of $6.1 million primarily attributable to (i) a $3.5 million increase in foreign currency transaction gains and (ii) a $2.2 million decrease in interest expense primarily related to a decrease in the average debt balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $3.7 million primarily due to a $5.3 million increase in expenses incurred by Fortress related to our proposed acquisition by SoftBank for the three months ended September 30, 2017 . This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $1.6 million primarily attributable to (i) a $0.9 million increase in foreign currency transaction gains and (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in interest expense primarily related to a decrease in the average debt balance for the three months ended September 30, 2017 , as compared to the prior period. 83 Table of Contents Embedded Gains (Losses) The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of September 30, 2017 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment $ 5,170 $ 5,170 $ N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 59,499 7,758 51,741 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 138,657 3 138,654 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 10,922 240 10,682 N/A Real Assets Fund 360 360 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 106,017 49,256 56,761 N/A Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Funds) 32,699 14,866 17,833 N/A Real Estate Opportunities Funds 15,346 10,428 4,918 N/A Secured Lending Fund I 126 123 3 N/A MSR Opportunities Funds 2,036 1,450 586 N/A Italian NPL Opportunities Fund 5,897 2,226 3,671 N/A Other Funds (combined) Private investment #1 253,630 205,357 48,273 N/A Private investment #2 37,898 553 37,345 N/A Permanent capital vehicles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) (D) 2,639 78 2,561 N/A Drive Shack (NYSE: DS) 624 60 564 N/A New Residential (NYSE: NRZ) 8,675 413 8,262 N/A New Media (NYSE: NEWM) 1,107 54 1,053 N/A New Senior (NYSE: SNR) 1,582 229 1,353 N/A FTAI (NYSE: FTAI) (D) 7,297 6,283 1,014 N/A Other Hedge fund sidepocket investments 2,578 1,854 1,077 (353 ) Direct investments - Other 139,438 23,914 115,572 (48 ) Total $ 832,197 $ 325,145 $ 507,453 $ (401 ) (A) Represents the net asset value ("NAV") of Fortress's investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortress's cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments recorded for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. (D) All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering ("IPO") in May 2015. Excludes (i) the FTAI shares received at IPO as incentive income, with a fair value of $6.2 million and a segment cost basis of zero as of September 30, 2017 and (ii) the Eurocastle shares received from the August 2017 exercise of options with a fair value of $7.6 million and a segment cost basis of $6.4 million, as of September 30, 2017 . Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3, "