ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Groups consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as consolidated financial statements or historical consolidated financial statements) included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $43.6 billion in AUM as of September 30, 2011. Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of over 1,000 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, and investment income (loss) from our principal investments. We invest capital in each of our alternative investment businesses. As of September 30, 2011, we managed alternative assets in three core businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $12.7 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) private equity funds that primarily make significant, control-oriented investments in debt and equity securities of public or privately held entities in North America and Western Europe, with a focus on acquiring and building asset-based businesses with significant cash flows; and (ii) publicly traded alternative investment vehicles, which we refer to as Castles, that invest primarily in real estate and real estate related debt investments. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $6.2 billion of AUM. These funds invest globally in fixed income, currency, equity and commodity markets and related derivatives to capitalize on imbalances in the financial markets. In addition, this segment includes a fund-of-funds business, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers, and direct investments. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $11.8 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in assets, opportunistic lending situations and securities on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity (PE) funds which are comprised of a family of credit opportunities funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of long dated value funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of real assets funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in four principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), two Asia funds, a Japan real estate fund and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a real estate opportunities fund. In addition, we treat our principal investments in these funds as a distinct business segment and we will not treat our traditional asset management business, which has $12.9 billion of AUM, as a separate segment until such time as its operations become significant. Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our fund investors). An alternative asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Private equity style funds are typically closed-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may draw or call this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. 40 Table of Contents Hedge funds are typically open-end funds, which means they work as follows: we solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds, and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. In addition, Fortress acquired a traditional asset management business during 2010. Although not yet significant to our operations, the traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increasing the amount of capital we manage for fund investors, also known as our assets under management. Earning attractive returns on the investments we make. Effectively managing our liquidity, including our debt, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes, and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments : In closed-end funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Redemptions : In open-end funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or redeemed, at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under Results of Operations Assets Under Management. Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns. Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under Results of Operations Performance of Our Funds. Proximity to incentive income threshold. This is a measure of a funds performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. 41 Table of Contents Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds and private equity funds, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Funds inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a high water mark for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the net returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the preferred return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in the fund is realized, subject to a clawback. At the termination of such a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the funds overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or clawed back) to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the funds invested capital has been returned. Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the funds assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No The amount of previously distributed incentive income. The amount of undistributed incentive income, which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes The amount of previously distributed incentive income. The intrinsic clawback, which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A The amount of undistributed incentive income, which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. 42 Table of Contents We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or way which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our debt covenants are discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources, Debt Obligations, and Covenants. We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing simply means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees interests are aligned with Fortresss, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation simply means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of never requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based, are discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds investments. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility. 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned (clawed back) to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectability of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility. 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 43 Table of Contents 6) Debt covenants. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Income Statement Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash but has a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued. (This amount is broken out from total compensation in the compensation footnote in our consolidated financial statements.) 3) Principals agreement compensation, which has no economic effect on us and is not considered by management in assessing our performance. 4) Other general and administrative expenses and interest. 5) Taxes. The primary measure of operating performance used by management is Distributable Earnings, which is further discussed in the Results of Operations Segment Analysis section herein. Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes, and (iii) equity-based compensation ( not including principals agreement compensation), because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued to employees. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) Castles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit private equity (PE) funds, and (vi) principal investments in those funds, as well as cash that is available to be invested. These segments are differentiated based on the varying strategies of the funds we manage in each segment. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of certain general and administrative expenses. Where applicable, portions of the general and administrative expenses have been allocated between the segments. Our traditional asset management business, Logan Circle Partners, L.P. (Logan Circle or Logan Circle Partners) is initially being reported in the unallocated section of our segments until such time as it becomes material to our operations. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee) and income tax expense. Management assesses the net performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a readers understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see Results of Operations Segments Analysis below. 44 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on the size of our funds, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues both at Fortress and within our funds depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of U.S. and global financial institutions and the financial system. While market conditions in the United States and abroad have improved meaningfully over the last two years, it is not clear whether a sustained recovery will occur or, if so, for how long it will last. Many market participants remain concerned about the long-term health of the financial markets and the financial institutions and countries that participate in these markets. We and other market participants face continued challenges in addressing the issues created by the recent challenging credit and liquidity conditions and financial institution failures. If market conditions remain challenging or deteriorate in the future particularly if there is another failure of one or more major financial institutions, a default or serious deterioration in the financial condition of one or more sovereign nations, or another severe contraction of available debt or equity capital, this development would negatively impact Fortress and our funds and may counteract the progress we have made over the last couple of years. The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets. Strong equity market conditions enable our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments. In addition, strong equity markets make it generally easier for our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds make investments in debt instruments, which are assisted by a strong and liquid debt market. In addition, our funds borrow money to make investments. Our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Furthermore, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. Beginning in mid-2007, the equity and debt markets experienced a significant deterioration. The deterioration of the debt markets in the United States was triggered by considerable turbulence in the housing and sub-prime mortgage markets, which negatively affected other fixed income markets. The difficult conditions in the fixed income markets prompted lenders to cease committing to new senior loans and other debt, which, in turn, made it extremely difficult to finance new and pending private equity acquisitions or to refinance existing debt. In particular, the securitization markets, which in years prior to 2007 had represented an important outlet for the placing of acquisition debt, have been impaired since that time, although securitization activity has increased in 2011. Private equity-led acquisitions announced since mid-2007 have generally been smaller, less levered, and subject to more restrictive debt covenants than acquisitions done prior to the disruption. As the turbulence in the debt markets continued and its intensity increased, equity market conditions also began to deteriorate in the latter part of 2007 as concerns of an economic slowdown began to affect equity valuations. The resulting reduction in liquidity and increase in volatility caused several commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other financial institutions to reduce the carrying value of a significant amount of their fixed income holdings, which further reduced the liquidity of debt and, to a lesser extent, equity instruments. Equity market conditions began to stabilize in the second quarter of 2009, and debt market conditions improved significantly in 2010. During 2009 and 2010, we were able to access the equity markets in the United States and abroad, including, for example, the IPOs of Rail America, Seacube Container Leasing Ltd. and Whistler Blackcomb Holdings Inc. as well as realizations of significant other positions in publicly traded securities of our portfolio companies. The improvement in the debt markets has enabled us and other market participants to refinance existing debt obligations and otherwise obtain debt financing with respect to our existing investments. However, while the debt market conditions have remained strong thus far in 2011, equity market conditions remain volatile and have been adversely affected by various factors, such as unrest in the Middle East, the earthquake in Japan, continuing weakness in the U.S. job market, the credit rating downgrading of U.S. government debt and the European debt crisis. We cannot predict future conditions of these markets or the impact of such conditions on our business. The recent market conditions have negatively impacted our business in several ways: While conditions in the U.S. capital markets have improved meaningfully over the last two years, there currently is less debt and equity capital available in the market relative to the levels available from the early 2000s to 2008, which, coupled with additional margin collateral requirements imposed by lenders on some types of investments, debt and derivatives, has increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions 45 Table of Contents of capital from the debt and equity markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of increased liquidity may limit our ability to make investments distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. The dislocation of values and associated decreased liquidity in the global equity and debt markets have caused a material depreciation in equity and fixed income asset values in comparison to years prior to 2008, greater price volatility and weaker economic conditions around the globe. This has resulted in a significant reduction in the value of certain of our investments in comparison to years prior to 2008, which, in turn, has impacted our management fees, incentive income and investment income. Recently, such values have rebounded (significantly in many cases), but have not increased to their historical levels for all investments. The market prices of the investments held by our private equity funds in public companies decreased substantially from their high values, rebounded meaningfully in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, but have experienced volatility since then. A decrease in these prices hinders our ability to realize gains within these funds and therefore our ability to earn incentive income, as well as impacting the value of our principal investments in such funds. As a result of the above factors: We have not paid a dividend on our Class A shares since the second quarter of 2008. However, our board of directors has approved a revised dividend policy under which it will reinstate a $0.05 per share quarterly dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011. The decision to pay a dividend, as well as the amount of any dividends paid, is subject to change at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a number of factors, including actual and projected distributable earnings. Changes in the value of our funds investments have impacted our future management fees, at an annual rate of up to 3% of the decline in aggregate fund NAV. See Fee Paying Assets Under Management below for a table summarizing our AUM. Changes in the value of our funds investments have also impacted the relationship between the NAVs of our investors in our main credit and liquid hedge funds and their incentive income thresholds (high water marks). As a result of recent performance, the incentive income outlook for these funds has substantially improved from recent years. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for more information. Returns earned on capital from new investors continue to be incentive income eligible. Unrealized losses, or returns below threshold returns, in a significant portion of our private equity funds have resulted in higher future returns being required before we earn incentive income from such funds, and, in some cases, the possibility that we will be liable for so-called clawback payments relating to incentive payments previously collected. The returns required are subject to a number of variables, such as: the amount of loss incurred, the amount of outstanding capital in the fund, the amount and timing of future capital draws and distributions, and the rate of preferential return earned by investors. Despite the volatile economic conditions, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. First, the strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on the interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns offered on investment products offered by alternative asset managers. We have benefited in past years from relatively tight spreads, which have allowed us and the funds we manage to obtain financing for investments at attractive rates and made our investment products attractive relative to many other products. Although spreads over the past several years have been volatile, they have widened significantly from levels prior to the challenging market conditions. In addition to potentially reducing the relative attractiveness of our investment products, this widening will typically increase our costs when financing our investments using debt, which, in turn, reduces the net return we can earn on those investments. Furthermore, wider spreads reduce the value of investments currently owned by our funds. A reduction in the value of our funds investments directly impacts our management fees and incentive income from such funds. As a result, this dynamic could slow capital flow to the alternative investment sector. A second and related factor is the amount of capital invested with such managers. Over the several years prior to 2009, institutions, high net worth individuals and other investors (including sovereign wealth funds) increased their allocations of 46 Table of Contents capital to the alternative investment sector. That said, university endowments, pension funds and other traditionally significant investors in the alternative investment sector have, in some cases, reduced the amount of capital they are investing in this sector since the onset of the recession. This decrease appears to be due to a variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the generally negative investment performance in the sector during 2008 as well as their own liquidity constraints resulting from the negative performance of their investment portfolios and near-term capital requirements. The improved performance in 2009 through the first three quarters of 2011 relative to 2008 appears to have modestly improved the trend of capital invested in the alternative asset investment sector. The amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment sector appears to have stabilized or even slightly increased and redemption requests appear to have decreased relative to the conditions experienced during 2008, but they are still weaker than the conditions experienced prior to the onset of the global credit and liquidity crisis that began in 2007. Rather than focusing on reducing the amount invested in the alternative investment sector, investors in alternative investment vehicles that primarily invest in liquid investments appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid timeframe than what is permitted under the terms of many funds created prior to the onset of the crisis. In a similar vein, investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e. private equity style) funds have responded to the recession by engaging in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternatives industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was prior to the recession. The third factor, which most directly impacts our results, is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As a historical leader in the alternative asset management sector based on the size, diversity and historical performance of our funds, we have been able to attract a significant amount of new capital both at the public company and within our funds, even during the recent challenging market conditions. For example, in April 2009, the public company successfully raised approximately $220 million in net proceeds from an offering of its Class A shares. Moreover, during 2009 through the first three quarters of 2011, we have been able to raise meaningful additional capital in various funds, including newly formed funds. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors perception about our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the post-recession environment, as well as other factors. The strength of the sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: transportation, financial services (particularly loan servicing), leisure and gaming, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate and German residential real estate), and senior living facilities. If any of these industries or sectors were adversely affected by market conditions, sector-specific trends or other factors, in a systematic or uniform manner, it could have a disproportionately negative impact on those funds. For example, if the commercial real estate operating environment in Florida remains challenging or deteriorates further, our fund investments in Flagler Development Group could decline in value and potentially have a material adverse effect on the performance of the funds that are invested in Flagler. Market Considerations Summary While disruptions in the markets, with respect to equity prices, interest rates, credit spreads or other market factors, including market liquidity, may adversely affect our existing positions, we believe such disruptions generally present significant new opportunities for investment, particularly in distressed asset classes. Our ability to take advantage of these opportunities will depend on our ability to access debt and equity capital, both at Fortress and within the funds. No assurance can be given that future trends will not be disadvantageous to us, particularly if challenging conditions persist or intensify, or if generally improving conditions in our market reverse. We do not currently know the full extent to which continued market uncertainty will affect us or the markets in which we operate. If the challenging conditions continue, or result in a permanent, fundamental change in the credit markets, we and the funds we manage may experience further tightening of liquidity, reduced earnings and cash flow, impairment charges, increased margin requirements, as well as challenges in maintaining our reputation, raising additional capital, maintaining compliance with debt covenants, obtaining investment financing and making investments on attractive terms. However, to date we have been able to continue raising capital, both through new and existing funds, which helps to increase our AUM and to give us a significant amount of capital available to be invested at a time when we believe attractive returns are available. 47 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see Segment Analysis below. Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 353,269 $ 327,182 $ 26,087 $ 118,353 $ 107,752 $ 10,601 Management fees: non-affiliates 47,641 17,513 30,128 18,865 8,628 10,237 Incentive income: affiliates 44,361 53,892 (9,531 ) 14,754 7,487 7,267 Incentive income: non-affiliates 1,251 5,759 (4,508 ) 266 371 (105 ) Expense reimbursements from affiliates 130,337 100,606 29,731 42,350 36,745 5,605 Other revenues 5,433 8,791 (3,358 ) 1,071 1,242 (171 ) 582,292 513,743 68,549 195,659 162,225 33,434 Expenses Interest expense 13,883 11,043 2,840 4,583 3,549 1,034 Compensation and benefits 535,259 523,029 12,230 158,426 184,107 (25,681 ) Principals agreement compensation 751,749 712,101 39,648 279,623 239,975 39,648 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation, amortization and impairment) 139,659 81,307 58,352 57,932 29,981 27,951 1,440,550 1,327,480 113,070 500,564 457,612 42,952 Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) (26,751 ) (10,360 ) (16,391 ) (15,229 ) 2,025 (17,254 ) Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (116 ) 1,317 (1,433 ) Earnings (losses) from equity method investees 26,417 42,972 (16,555 ) (64,483 ) 16,941 (81,424 ) (450 ) 33,929 (34,379 ) (79,712 ) 18,966 (98,678 ) Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (858,708 ) (779,808 ) (78,900 ) (384,617 ) (276,421 ) (108,196 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (24,493 ) (4,641 ) (19,852 ) 2,712 4,545 (1,833 ) Net Income (Loss) $ (883,201 ) $ (784,449 ) $ (98,752 ) $ (381,905 ) $ (271,876 ) $ (110,029 ) Factors Affecting Our Business During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that have affected our business and materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. Each of these factors is described below. 48 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of raising new funds, capital acquisitions, and increases in the NAVs of certain funds from new investor capital and retained profits, offset by lower performance in certain funds coupled with redemptions in our hedge funds. Our AUM has changed for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as follows (in millions): Private Equity Liquid Hedge Credit Logan Circle Funds Castles Funds Hedge Funds PE Funds (J) Partners, L.P. Total 2011 AUM December 31, 2010 $ 11,923 $ 3,037 $ 6,355 $ 6,773 $ 4,817 $ 11,708 $ 44,613 Capital raised (A) 220 1,141 288 190 1,839 Increase in invested capital 224 11 107 2,090 2,432 Capital acquisitions Redemptions (B) (986 ) (145 ) (1,131 ) SPV distributions (C) RCA distributions (D) (968 ) (968 ) Return of capital distributions (E) (313 ) (119 ) (1,495 ) (1,927 ) Adjustment for reset date (F) (1,997 ) (1,997 ) Crystallized incentive income (G) (69 ) (91 ) (160 ) Equity buyback (H) (19 ) (19 ) Net client flows (traditional) 476 476 Income (loss) and foreign exchange (I) (366 ) (1 ) (287 ) 369 17 729 461 AUM September 30, 2011 $ 9,471 $ 3,237 $ 6,165 $ 6,214 $ 5,619 $ 12,913 $ 43,619 (A) Includes offerings of shares by the Castles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to September 30, 2011. (C) Mainly represents distributions from the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund SPV, which was established to hold the illiquid assets pertaining to investors who gave redemption notices in the fourth quarter of 2008. (D) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts (or RCA) in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (E) Return of capital distributions are based on realization events for private equity and credit PE funds. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. (F) The reset date of certain private equity or credit PE funds is an event determined by the earliest occurrence of (i) the first day following the expiration of the capital commitment period of a fund, (ii) a successor fund or entity draws capital contributions or charges management fees or (iii) the date on which all unpaid capital obligations have been cancelled. For the period commencing with the initial closing of or contribution to the fund and ending on the last day of the semi-annual or quarterly period ending on or after the reset date, certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the funds capital commitments and certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the funds aggregate capital contributions. Thereafter, such funds generally generate management fees as a percentage of the aggregate capital contributed adjusted for the fair value of each investment that is below the associated investments contributed capital. (G) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (H) Represents buybacks of equity interests by the Castles. (I) Represents the change in fee-paying NAV resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the fund. (J) As of September 30, 2011, the credit PE funds had approximately $3.0 billion of uncalled capital that will become assets under management when deployed/ called. Average Fee Paying AUM Average fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital for the Castles, or (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. 49 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM September 30, Returns (B) Inception Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2011 2010 September 30, 2011 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRRs Fund I Nov-99 (A) $ $ 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 Feb-13 200 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 Jan-15 1,286 1,315 0.4 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 Jan-15 88 119 (0.4 )% Fund IV Mar-06 Jan-17 2,417 2,330 (4.5 )% Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 Jan-17 560 548 (5.8 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 2,627 3,964 (5.8 )% Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 547 935 (16.8 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund Sep-04 Permanent 15.8 % FRID Mar-05 Apr-15 349 434 (12.5 )% FRIC Mar-06 May-16 75 98 (17.5 )% FICO Aug-06 Jan-17 36 (100.0 )% FHIF Dec-06 Jan-17 1,055 994 7.5 % FECI Jun-07 Feb-18 458 532 (3.7 )% WWTAI Jul-11 Jun-24 9 (C) Returns (B) Nine Months Ended Inception September 30, to Date (D) 2011 2010 Private Equity Funds that Report Annual Returns Mortgage Opportunities Fund III Jun-08 Jun-11 115 (6.1 )% 0.3 % 9.7 % Private Equity - Castles Newcastle Investment Corp. Jun-98 Permanent 1,294 1,102 N/A N/A N/A Eurocastle Investment Limited (E) Oct-03 Permanent 1,943 1,971 N/A N/A (3.4 )% Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds Jun-02 Redeemable 386 408 8.2 % (8.3 )% 5.3 % Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Redeemable 2,400 2,216 5.0 % (7.3 )% 5.8 % Fortress Commodities Funds Jan-08 Redeemable 810 803 4.4 % 0.9 % (3.1 )% Fortress Commodities Fund MA1 Ltd Nov-09 Redeemable 104 97 1.9 % 1.1 % (C) Fortress Partners Fund LP Jul-06 Redeemable 770 840 1.4 % 0.2 % 6.0 % Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP Nov-06 Redeemable 670 764 1.7 % (1.6 )% 6.7 % Fortress Asia Macro Funds Mar-11 Redeemable 189 (C) (C) N/A Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,117 4,361 10.2 % 6.4 % 18.7 % Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 853 625 10.7 % 9.1 % 20.0 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 191 130 10.9 % 4.7 % (C) Worden Fund II Aug-10 PE style redemption 20 10 10.3 % 6.3 % (C) Value Recovery Funds and related assets (G) Non-redeemable 987 1,786 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 50 Table of Contents AUM September 30, Returns (B) Inception Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2011 2010 September 30, 2011 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 1,275 1,127 28.1 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 1,064 695 16.4 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 63 (C) FTS SIP LP Sep-08 Oct-18 432 321 26.8 % FCO MA LSS May-10 Jun-24 114 47 (C) FCO MA II Jun-10 Jun-22 262 114 (C) FCO MA Maple Leaf Oct-10 Oct-20 175 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 201 201 3.8 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 161 204 3.9 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 198 243 8.7 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 14 14 13.8 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 118 166 9.5 % Assets Overflow Fund Jul-08 May-18 34 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund Jun-09 Jun-19 956 882 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Feb-20 53 29 (C) Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 349 50 (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 161 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 14 (C) Subtotal - all funds 29,815 30,860 Managed accounts 891 843 Total - Alternative Investments 30,706 31,703 Logan Circle Partners, L.P. 12,913 12,289 Total (H) $ 43,619 $ 43,992 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund I has passed its contractual maturity date and is in the process of an orderly wind down. The Castles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds and the Fortress Partners Funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, a substantial portion of the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying assets are realized. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents (PE style redemption). The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 80% of our alternative investment AUM as of September 30, 2011. (B) Represents the following: For private equity funds, other than the Mortgage Opportunities Funds, and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For Castles, returns represent the return on invested equity (ROE). ROE is not reported on an inception to date basis. Newcastles 2011 and 2010 ROE is not meaningful because Newcastle had negative book equity. For liquid and credit hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a new issue eligible, single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. For the Mortgage Opportunities Fund, returns represent the ratio of periodic performance to original contributed capital. For Fortress Commodities Funds, returns include the combined returns of Fortress Commodities Fund LP and Fortress Commodities Fund Ltd, the latter of which commenced operations in July 2011. (C) These funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through September 30, 2011. (D) For liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. For the Mortgage Opportunities Fund, reflects the ratio of inception-to-date performance to original contributed capital on an annualized basis. (E) Interim returns for Eurocastle Investment Limited are only reported on a semi-annual basis at June 30 of each calendar year. (F) The returns for the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds reflect the performance of each fund excluding the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) Fortress began managing the third party originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages NIH, FPRF, Mortgage Opportunities Funds I and II and Real Estate Opportunities Fund. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any fee paying assets under management at the end of the periods presented. Private Equity Fund I and GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund had zero AUM as of both September 30, 2011 and 2010, but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left on the table. 51 Table of Contents Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of profits (or in some cases taxable income) earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continue to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant PE style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Expansion of our investment platform historically required increases in headcount, consisting of newly hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house the increasing number of employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount increased from 897 employees as of September 30, 2010 to 970 employees as of September 30, 2011. Revenues Nine months ended September 30 Total revenues were $582.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $68.5 million, compared to $513.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to increases of $26.1 million and $30.1 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, and an increase of $29.7 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $9.5 million and $4.5 million in incentive income from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, and a decrease of $3.4 million in other revenues. The increases in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates were primarily attributable to a $12.1 billion increase in AUM from $31.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 to $43.6 billion as of September 30, 2011, including $11.4 billion of AUM acquired through Logan Circle, plus an increase of $12.6 million due to Newcastle options granted to the company. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates was primarily attributable to our consolidation of FCF, the operating subsidiary of one of our private equity funds, effective March 2010. The decrease in incentive income from affiliates of $9.5 million was primarily due to a decrease in incentive income recognized from certain of our private equity funds, which are recognized as contingencies for repayment are resolved, and was partially offset by an increase in incentive income from certain of our credit PE funds primarily due to an increase in incentive distributions which are not subject to clawback. The decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $4.5 million was primarily attributable to a reduction in incentive income from a third party account in our credit hedge funds whose investments were fully realized in 2010, and was partially offset by crystallized incentive income from a managed account in our liquid hedge funds which launched in August 2010. The $3.4 million decrease in other revenues was primarily related to a decrease in dividend income. Three months ended September 30 Total revenues were $195.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $33.4 million, compared to $162.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to increases of $10.6 million and $10.2 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, an increase of $7.3 million in incentive income from affiliates, and an increase of $5.6 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates. The increases in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates were primarily attributable to a $1.9 billion increase in AUM from $41.7 billion as of June 30, 2010 to $43.6 billion as of September 30, 2011, plus an increase of $5.6 million due 52 Table of Contents to Newcastle options granted to the company. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $7.3 million was primarily due to an increase in incentive income from certain of our credit PE funds primarily due to an increase in incentive distributions which are not subject to clawback. Expenses Nine months ended September 30 Expenses were $1,440.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, an increase of $113.1 million, compared to $1,327.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $12.2 million in compensation and benefits, an increase of $39.6 million in principals agreement compensation and an increase of $58.4 million in general, administrative and other expenses. Total compensation and benefits increased primarily due to increases in base compensation, discretionary bonuses and equity-based compensation, partially offset by a net decrease in profit sharing expenses primarily related to our credit PE funds. The increase in base compensation and discretionary bonuses was primarily due to our consolidation of FCF and Logan Circle effective March 2010 and April 2010, respectively, and an increase in our employee headcount for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. The increase in principals agreement compensation resulted from the acceleration of the agreements maturity date from February 2012 to December 2011. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to (i) an impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets related to Logan Circle, (ii) our consolidation of FCF and Logan Circle, (iii) an increase in allowances for potentially uncollectible expense reimbursements in connection with a certain fund experiencing liquidity shortfalls, (iv) a net reversal of an allowance for potentially uncollectible management fees, primarily in connection with the resolution of liquidity and valuation shortfalls within a certain fund, which was recognized during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and (v) a net increase in other general and administrative expenses. Three months ended September 30 Expenses were $500.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, an increase of $43.0 million, compared to $457.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $39.6 million in principals agreement compensation and an increase of $28.0 million in general, administrative and other expenses. These increases are partially offset by a decrease of $25.7 million in compensation and benefits expense. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to an impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets related to Logan Circle and a net increase in other general and administrative expenses. The increase in principals agreement compensation resulted from the acceleration of the agreements maturity date from February 2012 to December 2011. Total compensation and benefits decreased primarily due to a net decrease in profit sharing expenses primarily related to our credit hedge funds, and a decrease of discretionary bonuses relative to the prior comparative period. Future Compensation Expense In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our non-vested equity-based awards outstanding as of September 30, 2011 of $297 million with a weighted average recognition period of 1.76 years. This does not include contingent amounts or amounts related to the Principals Agreement, which is discussed below. Principals Agreement Compensation As a result of the Principals Agreement, $4,763.0 million is being charged to compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, which now ends on December 31, 2011. Fortress is not a party to this agreement. It is an agreement between the Principals to further incentivize them to remain with Fortress. This GAAP expense has no economic effect on Fortress or its shareholders. As a result, management does not include this expense in any of its analyses of performance. When Fortress records this non-cash expense, it records a corresponding increase in capital. 53 Table of Contents GAAP Net Income (Loss) Excluding Principals Agreement Compensation is calculated as follows: Nine Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 2010 GAAP Net Income (Loss) $ (883,201 ) $ (784,449 ) $ (381,905 ) $ (271,876 ) Principals Agreement Compensation 751,749 712,101 279,623 239,975 GAAP Net Income (Loss) Excluding Principals Agreement Compensation $ (131,452 ) $ (72,348 ) $ (102,282 ) $ (31,901 ) Other Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was ($0.5) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $34.4 million, compared to $33.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The change was primarily due to an decrease in earnings from equity method investees with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 relative to the prior comparative period, and an increase in net unrealized losses primarily related to our direct investment in GAGFAH and our investment in the options of one of our Castles. Three months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was ($79.7) million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $98.7 million, compared to $19.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The change was primarily due to a decrease in earnings from equity method investees with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds and credit PE funds for the three months ended September 30, 2011 relative to the prior comparative period, and unrealized net losses for the three months ended September 30, 2011 primarily related to our direct investment in GAGFAH and our investment in the options of one of our Castles. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $24.5 million and $4.6 million, respectively. The primary reason for the changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure, (ii) changes in the forecasts of annual taxable income which are used to calculate the tax provision, and (iii) the tax impact of RSUs and RPUs which vested and were delivered at a value substantially less than their original value, with this impact being the most significant during the first nine months of 2011. The deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below. Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) Castles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds, and (vi) principal investments in these funds as well as cash that is available to be invested. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee) and income tax expense. 54 Table of Contents Distributable earnings is defined in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Segment Reporting. Furthermore, a complete discussion of distributable earnings basis impairment and reserves, including the methodology used in estimating the amounts as well as the amounts incurred in the relevant periods, is disclosed therein. Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 101,443 $ 102,705 $ (1,262 ) $ 30,333 $ 36,160 $ (5,827 ) Incentive Income (1,748 ) 5,436 (7,184 ) (3,077 ) 5,436 (8,513 ) Segment revenues total $ 99,695 $ 108,141 $ (8,446 ) $ 27,256 $ 41,596 $ (14,340 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 69,878 $ 79,670 $ (9,792 ) $ 19,952 $ 30,239 $ (10,287 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $9.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $101.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $1.3 million, compared to $102.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees decreased $1.3 million as a result of (i) a decrease of $6.2 million due to the reset of Fund V, Fund V Coinvestment and FECI upon expiration of their respective capital commitment periods, (ii) a decrease of $1.1 million in management fees primarily from Fund I and Fund II, which are no longer subject to management fees, and (iii) a net decrease of $1.0 million in management fees primarily as a result of a net decrease in the market values of certain portfolio companies below their invested capital in prior periods, which impacted the computation of management fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $7.0 million in Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment and FHIF management fees primarily due to a net increase in market values of certain portfolio companies which were below their invested capital in prior periods, which impacted the computation of management fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. Incentive income was ($1.7) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $7.2 million, compared to $5.4 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $7.2 million as a result of (i) a $4.5 million reserve for the potential clawback of incentive income for Fund II which was recognized in 2011 and (ii) a $2.6 million decrease in incentive income due to lower realization events for Fund I. Expenses Expenses were $29.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $1.3 million, compared to $28.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The net increase of $1.3 million in operating expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net increase of $6.0 million in general and administrative expenses, primarily related to an allowance for uncollectable amounts due from one of our private equity funds, and (ii) a net increase of $0.1 million in compensation and benefits expense. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $2.6 million in profit sharing compensation expense primarily related to the incentive income reserve for potential clawback for Fund II and the decrease in incentive income for Fund I and (ii) a decrease of $2.4 million in corporate allocable expenses. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $10.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $30.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $5.8 million, compared to $36.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees decreased $5.8 million as a result of (i) a decrease of $6.2 million due to the reset of Fund V, Fund V Coinvestment and FECI upon expiration of their respective capital commitment periods and (ii) a decrease of $0.8 million in management fees primarily from Fund II, which is no longer subject to management fees. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $1.1 million primarily due to a net increase in market values of certain portfolio companies held by Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment and 55 Table of Contents FHIF which were below their invested capital in prior periods, which impacted the computation of management fees for the three months ended September 30, 2011. Incentive income was ($3.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $8.5 million, compared to $5.4 of million incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $8.5 million as a result of (i) a $4.5 million reserve for the potential clawback of incentive income for Fund II which was recognized in 2011 and (ii) a $4.0 million decrease in incentive income due to lower realization events for Fund I. Expenses Expenses were $7.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $4.1 million, compared to $11.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The net decrease of $4.1 million in operating expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $3.1 million in profit sharing compensation expense primarily related to the incentive income reserve for potential clawback for Fund II and the decrease in incentive income for Fund I, (ii) a decrease of $0.8 million in corporate allocable expenses, and (iii) a net decrease of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits expense. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $0.2 million in general and administrative expenses. Publicly Traded Alternative Investment Vehicles (Castles) The following table presents our results of operations for our Castles segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 39,542 $ 35,856 $ 3,686 $ 13,819 $ 11,878 $ 1,941 Incentive Income Segment revenues total $ 39,542 $ 35,856 $ 3,686 $ 13,819 $ 11,878 $ 1,941 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 19,375 $ 13,338 $ 6,037 $ 7,630 $ 4,181 $ 3,449 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $6.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $39.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $3.7 million, compared to $35.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $3.7 million as a result of (i) a $1.7 million increase due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, (ii) a $1.7 million increase in management fees from certain investments within the Castles and (iii) a $0.3 million increase due to an increase in Newcastle AUM resulting from their equity raises in 2011. Expenses Expenses were $20.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $2.5 million, compared to $22.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The net decrease of $2.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to a decrease in allocable corporate expenses primarily as a result of a decrease in overall corporate expenses and a decrease in average headcount within the Castles. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $3.4 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $13.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $1.9 million, compared to $11.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $1.9 million as a result of (i) a $0.5 million increase due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, (ii) a $1.1 million increase in management fees from certain investments within the Castles and (iii) a $0.3 million increase due to an increase in Newcastle AUM resulting from their equity raises in 2011. 56 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $6.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $1.5 million, compared to $7.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The net decrease of $1.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $1.1 million decrease in allocable corporate expenses primarily as a result of a decrease in overall corporate expenses and a decrease in average headcount within the Castles and (ii) a $0.4 million net decrease in compensation and benefits and general and administrative expenses. Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 Management Fees $ 83,859 $ 72,485 $ 11,374 $ 27,937 $ 24,494 $ 3,443 Incentive Income 4,526 26,119 (21,593 ) 1,354 21,292 (19,938 ) Segment revenues - total $ 88,385 $ 98,604 $ (10,219 ) $ 29,291 $ 45,786 $ (16,495 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 14,291 $ 32,171 $ (17,880 ) $ 5,601 $ 19,331 $ (13,730 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $17.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $83.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $11.4 million, compared to $72.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $11.4 million primarily due to net increases of $12.1 million and $1.0 million in management fees from the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Fortress Commodities Funds (including related managed accounts), respectively, primarily as a result of net capital raises, and an increase of $1.3 million in management fees from the Fortress Asia Macro Fund, which launched in March 2011. These increases in management fees were partially offset by net decreases of $2.4 million and $0.6 million in management fees from the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, respectively, primarily as a result of a decrease in management fees from the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund SPV, which is no longer subject to management fees as of July 31, 2010, and net capital outflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fundby-fund basis, was $4.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $21.6 million, compared to $26.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $21.6 million primarily due to net decreases of $23.4 million and $1.1 million in the incentive income generated by the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Fortress Partners Funds, respectively, primarily due to negative 2011 performance bringing nearly all capital eligible for incentive income below its respective high water mark, as compared to the prior comparative period. These decreases to incentive income were partially offset by a net increase of $2.9 million in the incentive income generated by Fortress Commodities Funds (including related managed accounts) primarily due to incentive income crystallized in 2011 and a higher proportion of capital that was eligible for incentive income as certain capital met or exceeded its high water mark in the third quarter of 2011 and generated subsequent positive performance. Expenses Expenses were $74.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $7.7 million, compared to $66.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase of $7.7 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $8.0 million in compensation and benefits, which includes an increase of $3.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense, partially offset by (ii) a net decrease of $0.3 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $13.7 million primarily due to: 57 Table of Contents Revenues Management fees were $27.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $3.4 million, compared to $24.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $3.4 million primarily due to a net increase of $3.0 million in management fees from the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), primarily as a result of net capital raises, and an increase of $0.9 million in management fees from the Fortress Asia Macro Fund, which launched in March 2011. These increases in management fees were partially offset by net decreases of $0.3 million and $0.2 million in management fees from the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, respectively, primarily as a result of a decrease in management fees from the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund SPV, which is no longer subject to management fees as of July 31, 2010, and net capital outflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fundby-fund basis, was $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $19.9 million, compared to $21.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $19.9 million primarily due to net decreases of $20.5 million and $0.8 million in the incentive income generated by the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Fortress Partners Funds, respectively, primarily due to negative 2011 performance bringing nearly all capital eligible for incentive income below its respective high water mark, as compared to the prior comparative period. These decreases to incentive income were partially offset by a net increase of $1.5 million in the incentive income generated by Fortress Commodities Funds (including related managed accounts) primarily as a result of a higher proportion of capital being eligible for incentive income as certain capital met or exceeded its high water mark in the third quarter of 2011 and generated subsequent positive performance. Expenses Expenses were $23.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $2.8 million, compared to $26.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease of $2.8 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $3.0 million in compensation and benefits, which includes a decrease of $1.3 million in profit sharing compensation expense, partially offset by (ii) a net increase of $0.2 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 96,122 $ 94,691 $ 1,431 $ 34,919 $ 27,778 $ 7,141 Incentive Income 49,923 52,397 (2,474 ) (4,274 ) 39,457 (43,731 ) Segment revenues total $ 146,045 $ 147,088 $ (1,043 ) $ 30,645 $ 67,235 $ (36,590 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 27,628 $ 41,149 $ (13,521 ) $ (1,788 ) $ 15,551 $ (17,339 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $13.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $96.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $1.4 million, compared to $94.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $1.4 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $14.7 million in management fees from an advisory agreement which commenced in the first quarter of 2011 and was concluded in the third quarter of 2011, (ii) an increase of $1.7 million in management fees from the Worden Funds, which launched in 2010, and (iii) a $0.7 million net increase in management fees for the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Fund primarily as a result of capital raises and positive performance partially offset by capital distributions. These increases in management fees were partially offset by a $15.7 million decrease in management fees from the Value Recovery Funds and related assets, of which $9.8 million relates to the recognition in the second quarter of 2010 of management fees which were previously deemed potentially uncollectible. Incentive income, which is determined on a fundby-fund basis, was $49.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $2.5 million, compared to $52.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $2.5 million primarily due to (i) a $5.4 million decrease in incentive income from a third party account whose investments were fully realized in 2010 and (ii) a $0.7 million decrease in incentive income generated by the 58 Table of Contents Worden Funds. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $3.7 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in profit eligible for incentive income as the funds met or exceeded their high water marks in 2010 and generated subsequent positive performance. Expenses Expenses were $118.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $12.5 million, compared to $105.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase of $12.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $6.8 million in compensation and benefits, which is net of a decrease of $1.3 million in profit sharing compensation expense, and (ii) a net increase of $5.7 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses, primarily related to the advisory agreement which commenced in the first quarter of 2011 and was concluded in the third quarter of 2011. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $17.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $34.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $7.1 million, compared to $27.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased $7.1 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $7.8 million in management fees from an advisory agreement which commenced in the first quarter of 2011 and was concluded in the third quarter of 2011, (ii) an increase of $0.5 million in management fees from the Worden Funds, and (iii) a $1.0 million net increase in management fees for the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Fund, primarily as a result of capital raises and positive performance partially offset by capital distributions. These increases in management fees were partially offset by a $2.1 million decrease in management fees from the Value Recovery Funds and related assets. Incentive income, which is determined on a fundby-fund basis, was ($4.3) million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $43.7 million, compared to $39.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $43.7 million primarily due to decreases of $39.8 million and $3.9 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and the Worden Funds, respectively, due to the reversal in the third quarter of 2011 of a portion of the incentive income recorded during the first half of 2011, as compared to the incentive income recorded in the prior comparative period. Expenses Expenses were $32.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $19.3 million, compared to $51.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease of $19.3 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $23.2 million in compensation and benefits, which includes a decrease of $19.4 million in profit sharing compensation expense, partially offset by (ii) a net increase of $3.9 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses, primarily related to the advisory agreement which commenced in the first quarter of 2011 and was concluded in the third quarter of 2011. Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 2011 vs. 2010 Management Fees $ 52,187 $ 32,171 $ 20,016 $ 19,551 $ 10,857 $ 8,694 Incentive Income 99,666 140,845 (41,179 ) 19,813 9,299 10,514 Segment revenues - total $ 151,853 $ 173,016 $ (21,163 ) $ 39,364 $ 20,156 $ 19,208 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 80,776 $ 82,067 $ (1,291 ) $ 23,595 $ 7,277 $ 16,318 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $1.3 million primarily due to: 59 Table of Contents Revenues Management fees were $52.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $20.0 million, compared to $32.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased by $20.0 million primarily due to a $22.3 million increase in management fees attributable to net capital calls or commitments made after 2009, most notably by Credit Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II, Life Settlements Fund, Global Opportunities Fund and a third party account we manage. These increases in management fees were partially offset by (i) a net decrease of $1.7 million in management fees primarily due to the Japan Opportunities Fund which had a management fee catch-up in 2010 for new investors who were admitted in subsequent closings of the fund, and (ii) a $0.6 million decrease in management fees attributable to net capital distributions by the Long Dated Value Funds and Assets Overflow Fund. Incentive income was $99.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $41.2 million, compared to $140.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income decreased $41.2 million primarily due to a $59.8 million decrease in incentive income primarily as a result of a decrease in distributions generated by realization events within Credit Opportunities Fund and a third party account we manage during the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. This decrease in incentive income was partially offset by an increase of $18.6 million in incentive income generated primarily from the Japan Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II, FCO MA II, Real Assets Fund, Assts Overflow Fund and Long Dated Value Fund III for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. Expenses Expenses were $71.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, a net decrease of $19.8 million, compared to $90.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The net decrease of $19.8 million in operating expenses was primarily attributable to a decrease of $24.3 million in compensation and benefits expense, primarily related to profit sharing compensation expense. This decrease was partially offset by a net increase of $4.5 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $16.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $19.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $8.7 million, compared to $10.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Management fees increased by $8.7 million primarily due to (i) a $9.0 million increase in management fees attributable to net capital calls or commitments made after the second quarter of 2010, most notably by Credit Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II, Life Settlements Fund, Global Opportunities Fund and a third party account we manage and (ii) an increase of $0.2 million attributable to the Japan Opportunities Fund as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These increases were partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in management fees attributable to net capital distributions by the Long Dated Value Funds and Assets Overflow Fund. Incentive income was $19.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $10.5 million, compared to $9.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Incentive income increased $10.5 million primarily as a result of an $11.7 million increase in incentive income generated primarily from the Japan Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II, FCO MA II, Long Dated Value Fund III, Real Assets Fund and a third party account we manage for the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. These increases were partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in incentive income generated within Credit Opportunities Fund during the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. Expenses Expenses were $15.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011, a net increase of $2.9 million, compared to $12.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. The net increase of $2.9 million in operating expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $2.7 million in compensation and benefits expense, primarily related to profit sharing compensation expense, and a net increase of $0.2 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses. 60 Table of Contents Principal Investments The following table presents our results of operations for our principal investments segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (7,473 ) $ 10,860 $ (18,333 ) $ (7,944 ) $ 6,540 $ (14,484 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $18.3 million primarily due to: a $2.1 million increase in net investment income primarily as a result of a decrease in recorded impairments of $3.5 million and $0.6 million with respect to our investments in our private equity funds and special investments in our hedge funds, respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. These decreases in recorded impairments were partially offset by the recording of $2.0 million of impairments with respect to our investments in Eurocastle for the nine months ended September 30, 2011; an $11.4 million decrease in net investment income from realizations and the performance of our investments in our funds. The $11.4 million net decrease in investment income was due to a net decrease of $1.1 million due to realization events in our credit PE funds, private equity funds, and special investments in our hedge funds and a net decrease of $10.3 million attributable to our investments in our hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period; a $2.9 million decrease in net investment income due to a net increase in interest expense primarily due to (i) an increase of $4.2 million primarily due to an increase in the average interest rate paid as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2010, partially offset by (ii) a decrease of $1.3 million in the amortization of financing costs; a $3.0 million decrease in net investment income due to a decrease in dividend income earned from our direct investment in GAGFAH common stock, partially offset by an increase in dividend income earned from our direct investment in Newcastle common stock; and a $3.0 million decrease in net investment income due to the realized losses on our foreign currency hedges for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $14.5 million primarily due to: a $1.8 million decrease in net investment income primarily as a result of recording $2.0 million of impairments with respect to our investments in Eurocastle for the three months ended September 30, 2011. This increase in impairments was partially offset by a decrease in recorded impairments of $0.2 million with respect to our special investments in our hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period; a $10.2 million decrease in net investment income from our investments in our funds. The $10.2 million net decrease in investment income was due to a net decrease of $0.4 million due to realization events in our credit PE funds, private equity funds, and special investments in our hedge funds and a net decrease of $9.8 million attributable to our investments in our hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period; a $1.0 million decrease in net investment income due to a net increase in interest expense primarily due to (i) an increase of $1.4 million primarily due to an increase in the average interest rate paid as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2010, partially offset by (ii) a decrease of $0.4 million in the amortization of financing costs; a $0.6 million decrease in net investment income due to a decrease in dividend income earned from our direct investment in GAGFAH common stock, partially offset by an increase in dividend income earned from our direct investment in Newcastle common stock; and a $0.7 million decrease in net investment income due to a $1.2 million decrease as a result of foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by $0.5 million of realized losses on foreign currency hedges recorded for the three months ended September 30, 2010. 61 Table of Contents The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of September 30, 2011: Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund I $ 63 $ $ 63 $ N/A Fund II 1,095 1,095 N/A Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment 9,565 5,038 4,527 N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 105,111 79,575 25,536 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 136,453 74,082 62,371 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 20,115 14,998 5,117 N/A Real Assets Funds 24,303 14,835 9,468 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 47,438 33,212 14,288 (62 ) Mortgage Opportunities Funds 4,138 330 3,808 N/A Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity and Global Opportunities) 6,387 5,198 1,221 (32 ) WWTAI 1,125 1,350 N/A (225 ) Real Estate Opportunities Fund 230 238 N/A (8 ) Other Funds (combined) GAGFAH (XETRA: GFJ) 6,096 2,880 3,216 N/A Brookdale (NYSE: BKD) 17,130 8,136 8,994 N/A Private investment #1 241,210 207,357 33,853 N/A Private investment #2 94,731 43,866 50,865 N/A Castles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 81 81 N/A N/A Newcastle (NYSE: NCT) 4,175 667 3,508 N/A Other Hedge fund side pocket investments 84,192 67,696 17,128 (632 ) Direct investments 100,258 65,001 35,272 (15 ) Total $ 903,896 $ 624,540 $ 280,330 $ (974 ) (A) Represents the net asset value (NAV) of Fortresss investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortresss cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments taken for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. Unallocated Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 2011 2010 $ 2011 2010 $ Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (12,197 ) $ (12,148 ) $ (49 ) $ (4,156 ) $ (5,443 ) $ 1,287 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by less than $0.1 million primarily due to: a $6.2 million increase in management fees due to the Logan Circle acquisition in April 2010; offset by a $6.2 million increase in operating and acquisition expenses primarily due to the Logan Circle acquisition in April 2010. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss decreased by $1.3 million primarily due to: a $1.3 million decrease in operating expenses primarily due to a decrease in expenses related to Logan Circle for the three months ended September 30, 2011 as compared to the prior comparative period. Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3,