ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Groups consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as consolidated financial statements or historical consolidated financial statements) included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $66.0 billion in AUM as of September 30, 2014 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of approximately 1,600 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, and investment income (loss) from our investments in our funds. We continue to invest capital in our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was mixed in the first nine months of 2014 , with strong performances in some funds and weakness in others, and overall our operating results were flat to slightly down in comparison to the first nine months of 2013 . In addition, we have continued capital raising within our funds and we have improved our capital structure by repurchasing Class A shares at a discount to their market price. For more information about these topics, please refer to Performance of our Funds, Assets Under Management, and Liquidity and Capital Resources below. As of September 30, 2014 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $14.2 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America and Western Europe; and (ii) permanent capital vehicles, which includes publicly traded companies that are externally managed by Fortress pursuant to management agreements and a private fund. The publicly traded companies invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets, including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing related assets, and media assets and the private fund invests in transportation and infrastructure assets. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $7.5 billion of AUM. These funds invest globally in fixed income, currency, equity and commodity markets and related derivatives to capitalize on imbalances in the financial markets. In addition, this segment includes an endowment style fund, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers, and direct investments; a fund that primarily focuses on an international "event driven" investment strategy, particularly in Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America; and a fund that seeks to generate returns by executing a positively convex investment strategy. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $13.2 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity (PE) funds which are comprised of a family of credit opportunities funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of real assets funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in four principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Logan Circle our traditional asset management business, which has approximately $31.1 billion of AUM, provides institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income and growth equity strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. Logan Circle's growth equities investment business is focused on investing and managing concentrated portfolios of publicly traded U.S. equities. 77 Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our fund investors). An alternative asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Our private equity business also manages permanent capital vehicles, also described below. Private equity style funds (including the private permanent capital vehicle) are typically closed-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may draw or call this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are publicly traded entities which are externally managed by us. "Externally managed" means that their senior management is typically employed by us and that they rely on us for their decision making. In exchange, we receive management fees, incentive income and, when we assist these entities in raising equity capital, options to purchase their common stock. "Publicly traded" means that their equity, in the form of common stock, is typically traded on a major public stock exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, their equity investors (stockholders) may trade in and out of their positions, but Fortress continues to earn management fees and incentive income regardless of any turnover in ownership. These entities have indefinite lives and typically pay dividends or distributions to their stockholders only from earnings, while capital is reinvested. Hedge funds are typically open-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds, and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. In addition, Fortress has a traditional asset management business. The traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In addition, Fortress typically receives a number of options to purchase common stock of publicly traded permanent capital vehicles equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold by any such entity when raising equity capital. The options received by Fortress typically have a strike price equal to the market price of the relevant stock on the day of issuance and a ten-year term. When an option is exercised, Fortress pays the strike price and receives a share of common stock of the publicly traded permanent capital vehicle. If the value of the stock were to increase during the term of the option, the value of the share received by Fortress upon exercise would exceed the strike price paid by Fortress. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors, also known as our assets under management, or "AUM." Earn attractive returns on the investments we make. Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. 78 Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Management fee paying assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf or when the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles raise capital such as in an equity offering. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes, and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments and return of capital distributions : In closed-end funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Similarly, AUM decreases in publicly traded investment vehicles, including the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, when return of capital distributions are made to investors. Redemptions : In open-end funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or redeemed, at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under Assets Under Management. Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under Performance of Our Funds. Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds, private equity funds and publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a high water mark for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the preferred return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in a fund is realized, subject to a clawback. At the termination of a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or clawed back) to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. 79 We generally earn incentive income from publicly traded permanent capital vehicles based on a percentage of operating results in excess of specified returns to shareholders, calculated on a cumulative but not compounding basis. Incentive income is generally earned quarterly and once incentive is earned, it is not subject to clawback. However, if at a later date the total incentive income received by us is in excess of the cumulative amount calculated as of this later date, we would have to make up that difference in order to us to begin earning incentive income again. Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the funds assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. 80 Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or manner which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources, Debt Obligations, and Covenants. We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of not requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based compensation, are discussed in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Non-Investment Manager New Media We consolidated New Media Investment Group Inc. (New Media) beginning in February 2014. We entered into a management agreement with New Media pursuant to which we receive annual management fees and incentive income. We determined that New Media qualified as a variable interest entity (VIE) and, upon the completion of the distribution of New Media's common shares, that we were the primary beneficiary. Therefore, in addition to our asset management business (disclosed under Investment Manager in our financial statements), we also consolidate New Media, a newly listed company primarily focused on investing in a high quality portfolio of local media assets (disclosed under Non-Investment Manager in our financial statements and also referred to as the Media Business). As of September 30, 2014 , Fortress owned approximately 0.20% of New Media's outstanding common stock. New Media's results impact our net income, but do not have a material impact on our net income attributable to Class A shareholders, Class A basic and diluted earnings per share or total Fortress shareholders' equity as substantially all of the operating results of New Media are attributable to non-controlling interests. New Medias assets and liabilities are also recorded on our balance sheet. However, Fortress has no obligation to satisfy the liabilities of New Media. Similarly, Fortress does not have the right to make use of New Media's assets to satisfy its obligations. In addition, the debt obligations of the Media Business are not cross collateralized with the debt obligations of Fortress. New Media's debt obligations have no impact on Fortress's cash flows and its ability to borrow or comply with its debt covenants under its revolving credit agreement. New Media had no operations until November 2013, when it became the owner of GateHouse Media, LLC ("GateHouse" or the predecessor) and Local Media Group Holdings LLC, the parent of Local Media Group, Inc. (formerly known as Dow Jones Local Media Group, Inc.) ("Local Media"). New Media has a particular focus on owning and acquiring local media assets in small to mid-size markets. They focus on two large business categories: consumers and small to medium size businesses (SMBs). Consumer revenue comes primarily from subscription income as consumers pay for local content, primarily in print and to a lesser extent online. SMB revenue comes from a variety of print and digital advertising products, digital service products offered through the Propel business, a digital marketing services business, and commercial printing services. Operating costs consist primarily of labor, newsprint, and delivery costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of labor costs. Advertising revenue tends to follow a seasonal pattern, with higher advertising revenue in months containing significant events or holidays. Accordingly, first quarter, followed by third quarter, historically are the weakest quarters of the year in terms of 81 revenue. Correspondingly, second and fourth fiscal quarters, historically, are the strongest quarters. We expect that this seasonality will continue to affect advertising revenue in future periods. New Medias predecessor, GateHouse, has experienced on-going declines in print advertising revenue streams and increased volatility of operating performance, despite geographic diversity, well-balanced portfolio of products, broad customer base and reliance on smaller markets. New Media may experience additional declines and volatility in the future. These declines in print advertising revenue have come with the shift from traditional media to the Internet for consumers and businesses. New Media is making investments in digital platforms, such as Propel, as well as online, and mobile applications, to support print publications in order to capture this shift. New Senior In October 2014, Newcastle announced that its board of directors set a distribution date of November 6, 2014 for the common shares of New Senior Investment Group Inc. ("New Senior", NYSE: SNR) to its shareholders. Fortress will enter into a management agreement with New Senior as of the distribution date in which it will receive annual management fees and incentive compensation. Additionally, Fortress manages 22 senior living properties which are owned by New Senior for which Fortress receives management fees and reimbursement of certain expenses, including the compensation expense of all on-site employees. Fortress determined that New Senior will qualify as a VIE and, upon the completion of Newcastle's distribution of New Senior's common shares, Fortress determined that it will be the primary beneficiary. As a result, Fortress will consolidate New Senior as of the date of distribution. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. In addition, we hold options to purchase shares of common stock of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. 5) Media related assets of New Media, a consolidated VIE. 6) Assets of the consolidated investment companies (collectively, the "Investment Company"), which are consolidated VIEs. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned (clawed back) to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. 5) Media related liabilities of New Media, a consolidated VIE. 6) Liabilities of the Investment Company, which are consolidated VIEs. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the consolidated balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. 82 Income Statement Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. 3) Advertising, circulation and commercial printing revenues related to New Media. 4) Interest and dividends related to the Investment Company, which are consolidated VIEs. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash, including profit sharing compensation. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash but has a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued. (This amount is broken out from total compensation in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements.) 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest expense. 4) Taxes. 5) New Media related operating expenses and interest expense. 6) Expenses relating to the Investment Company, which are consolidated VIEs. Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes, and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. For additional information regarding the Investment Company see Note 1 and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. In the third quarter of 2014, we reorganized our segments. See "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" below. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee) and income tax expense. Management assesses the performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see Results of Operations Segments Analysis below. 83 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on AUM, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues - both at Fortress and within our funds - depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and related financial and economic conditions. U.S. and global financial and economic conditions have a substantial impact on the success of our business strategy, including our ability to effect realizations and make new investments. In addition, equity market conditions impact the ability of our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments and the ability of our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of the debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds are directly and indirectly exposed to the debt markets: we invest in debt instruments, our funds borrow money to make investments and our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Our portfolio companies also require access to financing for their operations and refinancing of their debt. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. In general, strong financial and economic conditions including equity and debt markets enable us to execute our business strategy and generate attractive returns while dampening distressed investment strategies, and periods of weakening economies and markets and increased volatility can also present opportunities to invest at reduced valuations and in distressed asset classes, while negatively impacting fees, realizations and value creation. For example, a significant decline in the value of our funds investments would require that our funds satisfy minimum return or high water mark requirements before generating incentive income and could subject us to clawback payments relating to incentive income previously collected. For hedge funds, opportunities to generate returns depend on their investment strategies, which may benefit from market declines or volatility. Global markets continue to be impacted by an overall challenging environment characterized by uncertainty and an absence of clear trends. Volatility remained generally low during the third quarter and equities and fixed income markets delivered mixed results, while the U.S. dollar gained strength. Over the past few weeks, volatility has increased in the markets due to concerns over a global slowdown even with prolonged stimulus from central banks. While additional easing is expected from the European Central Bank and the Bank of Japan, the Federal Reserves asset purchase program is expected to come to an end shortly. Markets continue to focus on the path of U.S. monetary policy and the expected transition in 2015 as an indicator of the likely direction of global interest rates and are focused on recent low inflation as well. In addition, markets are also focused on how additional U.S. dollar strength could impact growth and inflation outlook, as well as Federal Reserve policy. It is unclear what action the Federal Reserve may take after ending its quantitative easing program, given mixed economic data, uneven growth and the low levels of inflation. Although the U.S. economy appears to be recovering, the recovery has been uneven, with weakness is some areas and improvement in others. During the last quarter, the labor market has been stronger, with unemployment generally decreasing, and the housing market remained modest but slowly improving. However, weak consumer spending continues to hamper additional U.S. growth, though some measures of consumer spending have also begun to improve. Inconsistent economic data points have made the recoverys progress more difficult to assess. This imbalance presents a challenge for the Federal Reserve and, given the uncertainty of a broader recovery, markets could potentially become more sensitive to key economic data points and indications by the Federal Reserve of their revised policy. Markets will be looking for clarity from the Federal Reserve and other central banks and governments as well as indicators of growth. In the Eurozone, the European Central Bank adopted a wide ranging package of easing measures, including decreased refinancing and deposit rates, liquidity enhancing measures aimed at increasing funding for the non-financial sector through a series of targeted long-term refinancing operations, and announced it would begin its asset-backed securities and covered bond purchase program in the last quarter of 2014. While this was important for continued Eurozone recovery, growth is still slow and in general, much lower than that of the U.S. Although we believe sovereign risk has generally decreased overall in the Eurozone, it may be increasing again and inflation remains far below the European Central Bank's price stability mandate, which makes the Eurozone vulnerable to another external shock and creates uncertainty over its capacity to regain competitiveness. In addition, the Ukraine conflict with Russia has increased geopolitical risk and has had a negative impact on business and consumer confidence amid generally high unemployment in Europe. The broader Eurozone is also likely to face difficult discussions around additional support packages and restructuring of financial institutions, though we expect additional easing to be implemented. Our hedge funds hold actively-traded long and short positions, with frequently changing levels of exposure, in the debt of several European sovereignties. Based on the positions held by our funds as of September 30, 2014 , there was not a material risk to the performance of the company under typical market stress scenarios. However, the investments held by certain of our funds could be material to the individual performance of such funds and, therefore, our reputation. 84 Table of Contents In Japan, the Bank of Japan has continued the substantial pace of its easing policy and we expect it to continue through the end of the year, with any reassessment occurring after an expected decision on whether to implement a second consumption tax increase. Third quarter GDP will be a key consideration in contemplating a second consumption tax increase towards the end of the year, which we expect would occur together with additional fiscal stimulus. Renewed weakening of the Yen in recent weeks also provides the Bank of Japan with additional time to consider whether more assertive policy is necessary to achieve its inflation targets for the year. Consequently, while its asset purchasing program is expected to increase, any possible expansion of its easing policy is likely to occur only after the end of the year. Despite these measures, the Japanese equity market has declined so far this year, after increases in 2013. The overall view on emerging markets remains mixed. We expect that emerging markets will be likely tied to U.S. interest rates and Federal Reserve policy indicators. However, while a stronger U.S. economy would contribute to growth, it would be likely be offset by lower growth outside the U.S., which is an additional downside risk for emerging markets even if we experience positive U.S. growth. In Brazil, the October 2014 elections were polarizing, increasing uncertainty despite re-election of the current president. Markets are also cautious given Brazils vulnerability to an eventual increase in rates by the Federal Reserve. Market conditions over the last several years have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets since the financial crisis in 2008 increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the equity and debt markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of sufficient liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Improved economic conditions over the last several years, including relatively low interest rates, have benefited our business in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, a strong financing environment that has enabled our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to secure long-term financing, refinance debt at attractive levels, raise public and private equity capital and improve portfolio company profitability. Improving economic conditions and higher valuations in private equity funds have also contributed to their ability to launch new investment vehicles and raise capital for them. While improved conditions have created a more challenging environment for identifying new investments, we continue to deploy meaningful amounts of new capital. Following a period of deleveraging, that resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices, near-term investment opportunities have become more sporadic in nature given pricing and market dynamics. However, potential opportunities exist, particularly where access to capital is restricted and in Europe where economies may remain uncertain. Despite the uncertain economic recovery, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as discussed above and illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. The strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on returns available from traditional investment products, and to a lesser extent on interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns of investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Solving for funding gaps and historically low interest rates have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. As a result, the amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment sector appears to have increased significantly in the first nine months of 2014 and the outlook for 2014 remains positive. However, certain investors appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid time frame than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e., private equity style) funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternative asset management industry 85 Table of Contents that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As illustrated in - Performance of Our Funds below, we have generated strong returns in some funds and weaker returns in others, and the performance of our more recent vintage private equity funds has rebounded significantly since 2008, with slight increases in the first nine months of 2014. As illustrated in - Assets Under Management below, we have been able to raise additional capital in our funds, including existing hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the current market environment, as well as other factors. The strength of the industries or sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments, or in which variable interest entities that we consolidate operate. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: financial services (particularly loan servicing and consumer finance), transportation and infrastructure, gaming, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate), and senior living. The overall performance of our funds may be affected by market conditions and trends related to these industries and sectors. Within the financial services industry, the regulatory pressure on banks in the U.S. after the financial crisis contributed to a positive market for the expansion of non-bank financial institutions. This development has recently led to increased regulatory focus on non-bank financial institutions, resulting in slower growth within some of our financial services investments. Worldwide growth in trade and transportation continued to expand albeit at a more modest pace than in the previous years, with growing demand for both cargo and passenger-related transportation infrastructure and equipment. In addition, we believe there are significant investment opportunities in transportation and infrastructure investments in the energy industry, driven by growth in oil and gas production. The senior living sector continues to benefit from a favorable consolidation and supply/demand dynamics as well as an appreciation of related real estate values. European markets have presented opportunities for distressed investments in country specific markets such as Italy. We believe that unfolding developments in the U.S. residential housing market are generating significant investment opportunities. The residential mortgage industry is undergoing major structural changes that are transforming the way mortgages are originated, owned and serviced. In particular, we believe that mortgage servicing rights, excess mortgage servicing rights and other servicing related investments present an attractive investment opportunity. Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. ("Nationstar") is a mortgage servicer, which is majority owned by our Fortress Funds, and New Residential Investment Corp. ("New Residential"), which is managed by Fortress, and the MSR Opportunities Funds have made significant investments in excess MSRs and other servicing related assets. The timing, size and potential returns of future investments in this sector may be less attractive than prior investments due to a number of factors, most of which are beyond our control. Such factors include, but are not limited to, recent increased competition for excess MSRs and other servicing assets, which we believe is causing a related increase in the price for these assets. In addition, regulatory and government sponsored entity approval processes have been more extensive and taken longer than the process and timelines we experienced in prior periods, which has increased the amount of time and effort required to complete transactions. Our macro liquid hedge funds actively trade in global markets. Overall performance for the first nine months of 2014 has been negative, with losses attributable to global equities, which were partially offset by gains in global currency positions and emerging markets. Global market conditions and trends formed around them are always subject to change as are the positions held by our liquid hedge funds. In addition, we consolidated New Media, which exposes us to the industry in which it operates. The newspaper industry and New Medias predecessor experienced declining same store revenue and profitability over the past several years. General economic conditions, including declines in consumer confidence, continued high unemployment levels, declines in real estate values, and other trends, have also impacted the industry in which New Media operates. Additionally, media companies continue to be impacted by the migration of consumers and businesses to an internet and mobile-based, digital medium. These conditions may continue to negatively impact print advertising and other revenue sources as well as increase operating costs in the future, even after an economic recovery. In addition, we will consolidate New Senior when it completes its spin-off; the senior living industry is discussed above. 86 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity Liquid Hedge Funds Credit (I) Funds (I) Permanent Capital Vehicles (I) Hedge Funds PE Funds Logan Circle Total AUM December 31, 2013 $ 11,861 $ 3,722 $ 7,398 $ 5,856 $ 7,527 $ 25,386 $ 61,750 Capital raised (A) 483 2,072 512 31 3,098 Increase in invested capital 127 348 15 1,036 1,526 Redemptions (B) (1,438 ) (37 ) (1,475 ) RCA distributions (C) (487 ) (487 ) Return of capital distributions (D) (2,798 ) (97 ) (120 ) (47 ) (1,395 ) (4,457 ) Adjustment for capital reset (E) (86 ) (86 ) Crystallized incentive income (F) (130 ) (169 ) (299 ) Net client flows (traditional) 4,385 4,385 Income (loss) and foreign exchange (G) 597 (45 ) (253 ) 497 (30 ) 1,325 2,091 AUM September 30, 2014 (H) $ 9,787 $ 4,411 $ 7,529 $ 6,140 $ 7,083 $ 31,096 $ 66,046 (A) Includes offerings of shares by our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to September 30, 2014 . Redemptions are further detailed below. (C) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts (RCA) in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (D) For private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. For credit hedge funds, return of capital distributions include income distributions from Fortress Japan Income Fund. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, return of capital distributions represent the portion of dividends paid and categorized as return of capital. (E) The reset date of certain private equity or credit PE funds is an event determined by the earliest occurrence of (i) the first day following the expiration of the capital commitment period of a fund, (ii) a successor fund or entity draws capital contributions or charges management fees (not applicable to credit PE funds) or (iii) the date on which all unpaid capital obligations have been canceled. For the period commencing with the initial closing of or contribution to the fund and ending on the last day of the semi-annual or quarterly period ending on or after the reset date, certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the fund's capital commitments and certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the fund's aggregate capital contributions. Thereafter, such funds generally generate management fees as a percentage of the aggregate capital contributed adjusted for the fair value of each investment that is below the associated investment's contributed capital. (F) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (G) Represents the change in AUM resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the funds. For certain private equity funds, also includes the impact of a change in AUM basis from invested capital to fair value for certain portfolio companies which became publicly traded. (H) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 4 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses thereon. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (I) As of September 30, 2014 , the private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle and credit funds had approximately $2.1 billion, $0.6 billion and $4.8 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $2.0 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. Redemptions Fortress's liquid hedge funds, other than the Fortress Partners Funds, are subject to varying redemption terms based on investor classes, but generally offer monthly or quarterly redemption terms. Redemption notices generally must be received in the period prior to payment. Certain of Fortress's liquid managed accounts provide for management fees based on a leverage factor (which cannot go below 1.0) that is applied to net asset value, meaning that increasing or decreasing the leverage factor impacts management fees. Investors in these accounts may redeem their capital on a periodic basis similarly to the liquid hedge fund investors, and may also elect on 87 Table of Contents a monthly basis to increase or decrease the leverage factor in their accounts. An election to decrease the leverage factor is treated similarly to a redemption request in the tables set forth below due to its impact on AUM. The Fortress Partners Funds provide for annual redemption terms. Redemption notices must be received at least 180 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2014 redemption notice date was July 5, 2014 for redemptions to be paid in the first quarter of 2015. The credit hedge funds generally provide for annual return of capital terms. Return of capital requests must be received at least 90 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2014 return of capital request notice date was October 3, 2014 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2014. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. In particular, return of capital requests within the flagship credit hedge fund (onshore only) in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 are being paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or RCA. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, are shown in the table below. Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through September 30, 2014 (in thousands): Notice Receipt Period Liquid Hedge Fund Redemption Notices Received Payments Made with Respect to those Notices - Inception to Date Liquid Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices Credit Hedge Fund Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (C) Credit Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices 2014 $ 1,520,811 (D) $ 917,177 $ 603,353 $ 203,450 (D) $ 751 $ 202,699 2013 957,414 981,914 157,251 116,201 46,727 2012 1,482,907 1,483,319 248,402 250,621 38,292 Prior (A) 365,120 (A) $ 603,353 (B) $ 652,838 (B) (A) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (B) For liquid hedge funds, reflects $295.7 million to be paid primarily within one quarter and $307.7 million to be paid in the first quarter of 2015. For credit hedge funds, reflects $202.7 million to be paid in the first quarter of 2015 and thereafter and approximately $450.1 million in RCAs to be paid as the underlying investments are realized. Excludes any notices received from investors whose status has changed from fee paying to non-fee paying subsequent to notice receipt. (C) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. (D) In October 2014, Fortress's liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds received $101.3 million and $13.9 million, respectively, of additional redemption requests. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 88 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2014 2013 September 30, 2014 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRRs Fund I Nov-99 Closed May-13 $ $ 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 In Liquidation 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 Jan-15 763 1,159 6.0 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 Jan-15 41 96 1.7 % Fund IV Mar-06 Jan-17 2,322 3,445 2.3 % Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 Jan-17 348 449 (1.1 )% Fund V (E) May-07 Feb-18 4,263 2,814 5.6 % Fund V Coinvestment (E) Jul-07 Feb-18 491 615 (5.9 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) Sep-04 In Liquidation 19.4 % FRID (GAGFAH) Mar-05 In Liquidation 723 (0.3 )% FRIC (Brookdale) Mar-06 In Liquidation 159 (1.6 )% FICO (Intrawest) Aug-06 Jan-17 (100.0 )% FHIF (Holiday) Dec-06 Jan-17 771 1,083 6.9 % FECI (Florida East Coast Railway/Florida East Coast Industries) Jun-07 Feb-18 436 441 0.7 % MSR Opportunities Fund I A Aug-12 Aug-22 228 284 18.1 % MSR Opportunities Fund I B Aug-12 Aug-22 57 71 18.0 % MSR Opportunities Fund II A Jul-13 Jul-23 45 28 (C) MSR Opportunities Fund II B Jul-13 Jul-23 1 (C) MSR Opportunities MA I Jul-13 Jul-23 10 6 (C) Italian NPL Opportunities Fund Dec-13 Sep-24 11 (C) Private Permanent Capital Vehicle WWTAI Jul-11 Jan-25 451 192 (C) Continued on next page. 89 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Nine Months Ended Inception September 30, Inception September 30, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2014 2013 to Date (D) 2014 2013 Publicly Traded Permanent Capital Vehicles Newcastle Investment Corp. Jun-98 Permanent $ 1,579 $ 1,494 N/A 9.5 % 7.1 % New Residential Investment Corp. May-13 Permanent 1,366 1,196 N/A 12.0 % 10.6 % Eurocastle Investment Limited Oct-03 Permanent 510 547 N/A 7.5 % 6.4 % New Media Investment Group Inc. Feb-14 Permanent 505 N/A 6.5 % N/A Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds (A) Jun-02 Redeemable 223 293 7.9 % (5.4 )% 8.6 % Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Redeemable 1,537 1,425 6.6 % (4.9 )% 9.8 % Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Redeemable 304 334 9.0 % (4.9 )% 10.3 % Fortress Partners Fund LP (A) Jul-06 Redeemable 480 559 2.7 % 1.8 % 4.2 % Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP (A) Nov-06 Redeemable 455 650 3.0 % 1.7 % 7.2 % Fortress Asia Macro Funds Mar-11 Redeemable 2,793 1,594 10.0 % (4.0 )% 11.7 % Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Redeemable 189 107 (5.1 )% (4.2 )% (1.5 )% Fortress Redwood Fund LTD Aug- 13 Redeemable 582 585 (C) (C) (C) Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,224 3,757 11.6 % 7.7 % 13.5 % Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,324 1,232 11.3 % 5.6 % 13.2 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 223 196 12.1 % 5.9 % 11.2 % Worden Fund II Aug-10 PE style redemption 38 28 10.3 % 4.6 % 10.5 % Japan Income Fund Dec-13 Redeemable 14 (C) (C) N/A Value Recovery Funds and related assets (G) Non-redeemable 309 449 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 90 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2014 2013 September 30, 2014 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 575 $ 693 25.4 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 576 737 18.2 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 1,624 950 (C) FCO Managed Accounts Sep-08 to Oct-10 Apr-22 to Jun-24 1,072 805 19.0 % FCO Managed Accounts (C) Apr-12 to Jun-12 Mar-24 to Mar-27 608 631 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 163 185 5.3 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 121 142 4.2 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 74 91 8.7 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 3 3 11.6 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 64 85 8.1 % Japan Opportunity Fund Jun-09 Jun-19 316 409 29.6 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 714 714 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 668 745 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Feb-20 3 65 21.2 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 160 274 10.5 % Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 91 238 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 7 21 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 165 109 15.3 % Real Estate Opportunities Fund II May-14 May-27 31 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 41 25 (C) Subtotal - all funds 33,969 32,933 Managed accounts 981 1,457 Total - Alternative Investments 34,950 34,390 Logan Circle 31,096 23,581 Total (H) $ 66,046 $ 57,971 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. The publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds and the Fortress Partners Funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, a substantial portion of the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying assets are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents (PE style redemption). The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 78% of our alternative investment AUM as of September 30, 2014 . (B) Represents the following: For the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, returns represent the current dividend yield which is calculated by annualizing the most recently declared base dividend and dividing the result by the closing stock price for the period. Excludes the impact of special dividends declared in connection with REIT compliance, which may increase returns. There can be no assurance regarding the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles' respective dividend yields, which may fluctuate meaningfully as a result of changes in the amount of dividends paid in the future and/or changes in their respective stock prices. 91 Table of Contents For liquid and credit hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a new issue eligible, single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. (C) These funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment or commitment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. (D) For liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. (E) Fund V includes Fund V (GLPI Sisterco) and Fund V Coinvestment includes Fund V Coinvestment (GLPI Sisterco). (F) The returns for the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds reflect the performance of each fund excluding the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) Fortress began managing the third party originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages NIH, FPRF and Mortgage Opportunities Funds I and II. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any fee paying assets under management at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II, GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) and FICO (Intrawest) had zero AUM as of September 30, 2014 and 2013 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 92 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see Segment Analysis below. The results of operations of Fortresss asset management business are disclosed in the table below under the Investment Manager caption, including the Investment Company. The results of operations of New Media, a consolidated VIE, are disclosed in the table below under the Non-Investment Manager caption. See Notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements for information on consolidation of the Investment Company, New Media, and other VIEs. Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Investment Manager Management fees: affiliates $ 397,200 $ 388,957 $ 8,243 $ 133,674 $ 121,593 $ 12,081 Management fees: non-affiliates 52,112 45,531 6,581 16,774 15,361 1,413 Incentive income: affiliates 125,634 103,176 22,458 30,941 40,934 (9,993 ) Incentive income: non-affiliates 1,030 4,770 (3,740 ) 343 1,907 (1,564 ) Expense reimbursements: affiliates 153,448 149,308 4,140 50,600 49,301 1,299 Expense reimbursements: non-affiliates 9,931 4,752 5,179 4,869 1,904 2,965 Other revenues 4,325 2,954 1,371 1,302 1,019 283 Investment Company - consolidated VIEs Interest and dividend income 244 244 196 196 743,924 699,448 44,476 238,699 232,019 6,680 Non-Investment Manager - consolidated VIE Advertising 236,434 236,434 96,761 96,761 Circulation 118,049 118,049 49,803 49,803 Commercial printing and other 42,832 42,832 18,497 18,497 397,315 397,315 165,061 165,061 Total Revenues 1,141,239 699,448 441,791 403,760 232,019 171,741 Expenses Investment Manager Compensation and benefits 543,882 539,591 4,291 187,249 146,457 40,792 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 134,981 110,064 24,917 45,852 36,816 9,036 Interest expense 2,554 4,856 (2,302 ) 916 778 138 Investment Company - consolidated VIEs Other 685 685 466 466 682,102 654,511 27,591 234,483 184,051 50,432 Non-Investment Manager - consolidated VIE Operating costs 225,249 225,249 93,716 93,716 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 157,101 157,101 65,229 65,229 Interest expense 10,813 10,813 4,519 4,519 Loss on extinguishment of debt 9,047 9,047 402,210 402,210 163,464 163,464 Total Expenses 1,084,312 654,511 429,801 397,947 184,051 213,896 93 Table of Contents Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Other Income (Loss) Investment Manager Gains (losses) (26,235 ) 45,578 (71,813 ) (19,359 ) 7,503 (26,862 ) Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (4,036 ) (7,739 ) 3,703 (4,036 ) (4,036 ) Earnings (losses) from equity method investees 81,750 125,515 (43,765 ) 38,928 60,508 (21,580 ) Investment Company - consolidated VIEs Gains (losses) (4,427 ) (4,427 ) (4,991 ) (4,991 ) Total Other Income (Loss) 47,052 163,354 (116,302 ) 10,542 68,011 (57,469 ) Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 103,979 208,291 (104,312 ) 16,355 115,979 (99,624 ) Income tax benefit (expense) - Investment Manager (16,934 ) (42,236 ) 25,302 (3,024 ) (14,794 ) 11,770 Income tax benefit (expense) - Non-Investment Manager - consolidated VIE (1,704 ) (1,704 ) (3,116 ) (3,116 ) Total Income Tax Benefit (Expense) (18,638 ) (42,236 ) 23,598 (6,140 ) (14,794 ) 8,654 Net Income (Loss) $ 85,341 $ 166,055 $ (80,714 ) $ 10,215 $ 101,185 $ (90,970 ) Allocation of Net Income (Loss): Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries 58,946 111,421 (52,475 ) 10,842 58,804 (47,962 ) Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Investment Company - consolidated VIE (1,885 ) (1,885 ) (2,042 ) (2,042 ) Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Investment Company - consolidated VIEs (9 ) (9 ) (9 ) (9 ) Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Non-Investment Manager - consolidated VIE (10,305 ) (10,305 ) (3,014 ) (3,014 ) Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders 38,594 54,634 (16,040 ) 4,438 42,381 (37,943 ) $ 85,341 $ 166,055 $ (80,714 ) $ 10,215 $ 101,185 $ (90,970 ) Factors Affecting Our Business and Results of Operations During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that have affected our business and/or materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure; and consolidation of New Media. Each of these factors is described below, except for the consolidation of New Media, which is described under "- Non-Investment Manager - New Media." We also expect that the consolidation of New Senior as of the distribution date on November 6, 2014 will have a material impact on our net income but will not have a material impact on our net income attributable to Class A shareholders. 94 Table of Contents Average Management Fee Paying AUM Average management fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital for the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, or (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle). Average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows (in millions): Private Equity Nine Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles Liquid Hedge Funds Credit Hedge Funds Credit PE Funds Logan Circle Total September 30, 2014 $ 10,916 $ 3,971 $ 7,633 $ 6,012 $ 7,107 $ 28,052 $ 63,691 September 30, 2013 $ 10,965 $ 3,393 $ 5,983 $ 5,678 $ 7,106 $ 21,900 $ 55,025 Private Equity Three Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles Liquid Hedge Funds Credit Hedge Funds Credit PE Funds Logan Circle Total September 30, 2014 $ 10,145 $ 4,216 $ 7,698 $ 6,111 $ 6,961 $ 30,114 $ 65,245 September 30, 2013 $ 11,182 $ 3,397 $ 6,692 $ 5,714 $ 6,818 $ 22,489 $ 56,292 We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. In July 2012, Fortress formed a senior living property management subsidiary which has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by Newcastle Investment Corp. ("Newcastle"). For these services, Fortress receives management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. These properties will be included as part of Newcastle's distribution of the common shares of New Senior to its shareholders in November 2014. Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of returns (or in some cases taxable income) earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant private equity style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. 95 Table of Contents Employees Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Expansion of our investment platform historically required increases in headcount, consisting of newly hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house the increasing number of employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount changed from 1,056 asset management employees as of September 30, 2013 , to 1,159 asset management employees as of September 30, 2014 . Additionally, as of September 30, 2014 we have 1,720 employees at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities) compared to 1,209 such employees as of September 30, 2013 . Non-Investment Manager As of September 30, 2014 , New Media had approximately 6,153 employees, consisting of hourly and salaried employees. New Media employs union personnel at a number of their core publications representing approximately 929 employees. As of September 30, 2014 , there were 32 collective bargaining agreements covering union personnel. Most of New Media's unionized employees work under collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2014. Revenues Nine months ended September 30 Total revenues were $1,141.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $441.8 million, compared to $699.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to an increase of $397.3 million from the Media Business as a result of the consolidation of New Media beginning February 14, 2014, and an increase of $44.5 million in Investment Manager revenues. The increase in Investment Manager revenues of $44.5 million was primarily attributable to (i) increases of $8.2 million and $6.6 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, (ii) an increase of $22.5 million in incentive income from affiliates, (iii) increases of $4.1 million and $5.2 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively and (iv) an increase of $1.4 million in other revenues. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $3.7 million. The increase in management fees from affiliates of $8.2 million was mainly due to (i) a net increase of $40.1 million in management fees from our liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds, private equity and permanent capital vehicles primarily as a result of increases in average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $2.5 billion and (ii) a $1.2 million increase in management fees earned by our senior living property manager. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $33.1 million in management fees resulting from publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. The increase in management fees from non-affiliates of $6.6 million was primarily related to an $8.2 million increase in management fees from non-affiliates from Logan Circle due to an increase in average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $6.2 billion partially offset by (i) net decreases of $1.0 million and $0.6 million in management fees from non-affiliates from our liquid hedge fund managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, respectively. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $22.5 million was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $26.8 million in crystallized incentive income recognized from the permanent capital vehicles, primarily related to New Residential, (ii) an increase of $16.3 million in incentive income from our credit PE funds, primarily due to an increase in deemed tax distributions, which are not subject to clawback and (iii) an increase of $5.2 million of incentive income recognized from Fund II as a result of realization events during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period, which resulted in the recognition of income as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved. These increases were partially offset by (i) a net decrease of $15.7 million primarily as a result of a decrease in crystallized incentive due to the transfer of interests between two of our liquid hedge funds during August 2013 and a decrease in incentive earned on redemptions in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period, (ii) a decrease of $5.3 million in incentive income earned from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income recognized from the Worden Funds and a decrease in incentive income earned on distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds' redeeming capital accounts (or RCA), which represent accounts where 96 Table of Contents investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized and (iii) a decrease of $4.9 million of incentive income recognized in the prior period from the liquidation of Fund I in May 2013. The $3.7 million decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates was primarily related to a net decrease in crystallized incentive income of $3.6 million from our liquid hedge fund managed accounts, as compared with the prior period. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $4.1 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from the funds and an increase in expense reimbursements related to our senior living property manager for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior comparative period. The increase in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $5.2 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursements from our managed accounts. Expenses Nine months ended September 30 Expenses were $1,084.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $429.8 million, compared to $654.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase was primarily attributable to $402.2 million of expenses from the Media Business as a result of the consolidation of New Media beginning February 14, 2014 and an increase of $27.6 million in Investment Manager expenses. The increase in Investment Manager expenses was primarily due to (i) an increase in compensation and benefits of $4.3 million, (ii) an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $24.9 million, (iii) an increase in Investment Company expenses of $0.7 million and partially offset by a decrease in interest expense of $2.3 million. Total compensation and benefits increased primarily due to (i) a $20.4 million increase in other payroll, taxes and benefits as a result of an increase in headcount, (ii) a $17.9 million increase in discretionary bonus accruals, and (iii) a $12.4 million increase in profit sharing expenses related to our credit PE funds as a result of changes due to realization events and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods. These increases were offset by a $46.4 million decrease in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds, private equity funds and Principal Performance Payments, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to (i) an increase of $11.9 million in general and other expenses, (ii) an increase of $8.8 million in professional fees and (iii) an increase of $4.2 million in depreciation and amortization expenses. The decrease in interest expense of $2.3 million primarily relates to a decrease in the average outstanding Investment Manager debt balance and average interest rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , as compared to the prior period. Revenues Three months ended September 30 Total revenues were $403.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $171.7 million, compared to $232.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in revenues was primarily attributable to an increase of $165.1 million from the Media Business as a result of the consolidation of New Media beginning February 14, 2014 and an increase of $6.7 million in Investment Manager revenues. The increase in Investment Manager revenues of $6.7 million was primarily attributable to (i) increases of 12.1 million and $1.4 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, (ii) increases of $1.3 million and $3.0 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively and (iii) an increase of $0.3 million in other revenues. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $10.0 million and $1.6 million in incentive income from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively. The increase in management fees from affiliates of $12.1 million was due to (i) an increase of $9.9 million primarily in our liquid hedge funds, permanent capital vehicles, credit hedge funds and credit PE funds as a result of increases in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $2.6 billion, (ii) an increase of $1.7 million in management fees resulting 97 Table of Contents from an increase of permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the three months ended September 30, 2014 , as compared to the prior period and (iii) a $0.5 million increase in management fees earned by our senior living property manager. The increase in management fees from non-affiliates of $1.4 million was primarily related to an increase of $3.3 million in Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $7.6 billion, partially offset by a decrease of $1.9 million from our liquid hedge fund managed accounts as a result of a decrease in average management fee paying AUM of $0.3 billion. The decrease in incentive income from affiliates of $10.0 million was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $10.2 million related to crystallized incentive income from our liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of a decrease in crystallized incentive due to the transfer of interests between two of our funds during August 2013, (ii) a decrease of $6.4 million of incentive income recognized from Fund II as a result of a realization event in July 2013, which resulted in the recognition of income as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved and (iii) a decrease of $2.5 million in incentive income earned from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income recognized from the Worden Funds and a decrease in incentive income earned on distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds' RCAs. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $4.7 million in crystallized incentive income recognized from our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles primarily relating to New Residential and an increase of $4.4 million in incentive income from our credit PE funds, primarily due to an increase in deemed tax distributions, which are not subject to clawback. The decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $1.6 million relates primarily to a decrease of $1.1 million and $0.4 million in crystallized incentive income from liquid hedge fund managed accounts and a credit PE fund managed account, respectively. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $1.3 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from the funds and an increase in expense reimbursements related to our senior living property manager for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior comparative period. The increase in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $3.0 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursements from our managed accounts. Expenses Three months ended September 30 Expenses were $397.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $213.9 million, compared to $184.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase was primarily attributable to $163.5 million of expenses from the Media Business as a result of the consolidation of New Media beginning February 14, 2014 and an increase of $50.4 million in Investment Manager expenses. The increase in Investment Manager expenses is primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits of $40.8 million and an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $9.0 million. Total compensation and benefits increased primarily due to (i) a $31.8 million increase in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our liquid hedge funds, credit PE funds and Principal Performance Payments, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods, (ii) a $8.3 million increase in discretionary bonus accruals, (iii) a $6.1 million increase in other payroll, taxes and benefits as a result of an increase in headcount and (iv) a $2.6 million increase in equity-based compensation. These increases were offset by a $8.0 million decrease in profit-sharing expenses related to our credit hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds, the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods and changes in the fair value of tandem options held by employees. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to (i) an increase of $5.3 million in general and other expenses, (ii) an increase of $2.2 million in professional fees and (iii) an increase of $1.5 million in depreciation and amortization expenses. Current and Future Compensation Expense - Investment Manager We seek to compensate our Investment Manager employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation 98 Table of Contents and retention within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our non-vested equity-based awards outstanding as of September 30, 2014 of $62.7 million with a weighted average recognition period of 2.3 years. Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity, private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income. Liquid and credit hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund net management fees (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by business in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. We note the following with respect to profit-sharing expense: Within our hedge funds, profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with key traders and investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. From time to time, senior management engages a compensation consultant to provide management with surveys to help us understand how the compensation we offer to our employees compares to the compensation our peers offer to their employees. Other Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was $47.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $116.3 million, compared to $163.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This decrease is primarily related to (i) decreases of $27.7 million in the fair value of options and common stock in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and publicly traded private equity portfolio companies for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to an increase of $39.6 million in the prior comparative period, resulting in a net decrease of $67.3 million, (ii) a net decrease of $43.8 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds and credit PE funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 relative to the prior comparative period, (iii) a net realized loss of $7.8 million associated with our holdings of digital currency, (iv) $4.4 million relating to Investment Company losses and (v) a $0.9 million decrease relating to our trading securities. These decreases were partially offset by a decrease of $3.7 million in the tax receivable agreement liability expense and an increase of $4.5 million in the fair value of the derivatives held, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was $10.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $57.5 million, compared to $68.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . This decrease is primarily related to (i) decreases of $25.8 million in the fair value of options and common stock in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and publicly traded private equity portfolio companies for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , as compared to an increase of $7.0 million in the prior comparative period, resulting in a net decrease of $32.8 million, (ii) a net decrease of $21.6 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our credit PE funds, private equity funds, credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, (iii) a net loss of $5.5 million associated with our holdings of digital currency, (iv) $5.0 million relating to Investment Company losses, (v) the recognition of a $4.0 million expense associated with an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability and (vi) a $1.6 million decrease relating to our trading securities. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $13.5 million in the fair value of the derivatives held, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts. 99 Table of Contents Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Nine months ended September 30 Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , Fortress recognized income tax expense for the Investment Manager of $16.9 million and $42.2 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in annual taxable income and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure and (iii) the tax impact of RSUs and RPUs that vested and were delivered at a value substantially less than their original value. Factors that impacted the period-over-period change in the Investment Manager's income tax expense (benefit) are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ (15,304 ) Change in foreign and state income taxes (2,495 ) Change in mix of business (B) 4,129 Change in deferred tax asset-impact of equity compensation vesting (C) (20,549 ) Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (D) 12,348 Other (3,431 ) Total change (E) $ (25,302 ) (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are caused by changes in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) For the first nine months of 2014 a greater proportion of our total income was subject to corporate tax, as compared to the first nine months of 2013. In 2013, we generated more unrealized gains and certain other income, which income is passed directly to shareholders, increasing the proportion of our total income which was not subject to corporate tax and thereby reducing the proportion which was subject to corporate income tax. (C) This factor changes based on the amount of equity-based compensation delivered in a given year and the stock price on the date of delivery. (D) Primarily related to the write-off of certain fully reserved deferred tax assets associated with funds in the process of liquidation, offset by the change in the portion of the deferred tax asset that would be realized in connection with future capital gains. (E) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. For the period from February 14, 2014 to September 30, 2014, New Media recognized an income tax expense of $1.7 million. Three months ended September 30 Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , Fortress recognized income tax expense for the Investment Manager of $3.0 million and $14.8 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in annual taxable income and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure and (iii) the tax impact of RSUs and RPUs that vested and were delivered at a value substantially less than their original value. For the three months ended September 30, 2014 , New Media recognized an income tax expense of $3.1 million. 100 Table of Contents Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $111.4 million to $58.9 million , a decrease of $52.5 million , primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $49.9 million resulting from a $49.5 million decrease in Fortress Operating Group consolidated net income during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , (ii) an increase of $0.4 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group caused by the net impact of the repurchase of Class A shares from Nomura, the issuance of Class A shares, the repurchase from the Principals of an equivalent amount of Fortress Operating Group units and Class B shares, as well as the delivery of Class A shares primarily in connection with vested RSUs and RPUs and (iii) a decrease of $3.0 million resulting from Others interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group. Beginning February 14, 2014, Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Non-Investment Manager were recognized by us as a result of the consolidation of New Media, representing 99.80% of the equity interest in New Media not owned by Fortress for the period from February 14, 2014 to September 30, 2014. Three months ended September 30 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $58.8 million to $10.8 million , a decrease of $48.0 million , primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $48.7 million resulting from a $47.6 million decrease in Fortress Operating Group consolidated net income during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2013 , (ii) an increase of $1.0 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group caused by the delivery of Class A shares primarily in connection with vested RSUs and RPUs and (iii) a decrease of $0.3 million resulting from Others interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group. Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Non-Investment Manager were recognized by us as a result of the consolidation of New Media, representing the share of New Media income (loss) attributable to 99.80% of the equity interest in New Media not owned by Fortress, for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) Beginning June 1, 2014, Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Investment Company were recognized by us as a result of the consolidation of the Investment Company, representing the share of the Investment Company income (loss) attributable to the equity interests in the Investment Company, which are redeemable by an investor and not owned by Fortress, for the period from June 1, 2014 to September 30, 2014. Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Investment Company Represents the non-redeemable non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of the Investment Company for the period from January 1, 2014 to September 30, 2014. Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. In the third quarter of 2014, Fortress reorganized its segments by: (1) Reclassifying its investments in and resulting pre-tax distributable earnings from the Fortress Funds, which were previously presented under the principal investments segment, to each of the other segments that the investment relates to and (2) Reclassifying one of its private equity funds, Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Investors ("WWTAI"), from its private equity funds segment to its permanent capital vehicles segment, as we expect that WWTAI will become a publicly traded company externally managed by us. The reclassifications were made to reflect changes in the way the business is reviewed and assessed by Fortress's chief operating decision maker ("CODM"). All of Fortresss internal reports have been changed to reflect this reorganization and Fortresss allocable 101 Table of Contents expenses are now allocated amongst the segments based on this reorganization. Prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect the segment reorganization described above. For segment results of operations, the amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our CODM to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group (with the Non-Investment Manager and Investment Company on an unconsolidated basis) and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee), non-controlling interest in the consolidated Non-Investment Manager business and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 11 to Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements Segment Reporting, which includes a complete discussion of distributable earnings basis impairment and reserves, including the methodology used in estimating the amounts as well as the amounts incurred in the relevant periods. Distributable earnings for the existing Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds, a private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote by Fortresss chief operating decision maker (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were payable on a quarterly basis, minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, c. adding the incentive income earned by Fortress in connection with New Media and the Investment Company, which is eliminated under GAAP as a result of the consolidation of New Media and the Investment Company, Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain investments in our funds and certain other interests or assets that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, primarily dividends, from these funds, minus (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, minus (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on stock options held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on derivatives, direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, d. adding equity method earnings (or losses) earned by Fortress in connection with the Investment Company, which is eliminated under GAAP, (iii) adding (a) proceeds from the sale of shares received pursuant to the exercise of stock options in certain of the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, in excess of their strike price, minus (b) management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of these options, (iv) adding the management fee income earned by Fortress in connection with New Media and the Investment Company, which is eliminated under GAAP as a result of the consolidation of New Media and the Investment Company, 102 Table of Contents Expenses (v) adding or subtracting, as necessary, the employee profit sharing in incentive income described in (i) above to match the timing of the expense with the revenue, (vi) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options assigned to employees, RSUs and RPUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense), and restricted shares), (vii) adding or subtracting, as necessary, any changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable with respect to the acquisition of a business, to the extent management intends to pay it in equity and it is recorded on the statement of operations under GAAP, (viii) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (ix) adding back compensation expense recorded in connection with the forfeiture arrangements entered into among the principals, which expired in December 2011, (x) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units, (xi) subtracting the income (or adding the loss) of the Non-Investment Manager and the Investment Company allocable to the Class A shareholders, and (xii) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (Note 6). Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 104,552 $ 99,566 $ 4,986 $ 33,638 $ 33,810 $ (172 ) Incentive Income 2,854 9,181 (6,327 ) 1,544 (1,544 ) Segment revenues total $ 107,406 $ 108,747 $ (1,341 ) $ 33,638 $ 35,354 $ (1,716 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 163,851 $ 80,095 $ 83,756 $ 18,701 $ 30,717 $ (12,016 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $83.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $104.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $5.0 million, compared to $99.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $5.0 million due to (i) a net increase of $7.7 million in management fees primarily from Fund IV and Fund V as a result of an increase in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital in the prior period, which impacted the computation of fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $1.3 million in management fees from the MSR Opportunities Funds which called initial capital in January 2013. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of (i) $2.8 million in management fees related to Fund III, Fund III Co and Fund V Co primarily as a result of return of capital distributions and a decrease in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital and (ii) a decrease of $1.4 million related to FRIC and FRID which both substantially liquidated their respective investments during the second quarter of 2014. Incentive income was $2.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $6.3 million, compared to $9.2 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income decreased by $6.3 million primarily as a result of (i) a decrease of $4.9 million in the amount of incentive income earned from realization events that occurred as a result of the liquidation of Fund I during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and (ii) a decrease of $1.4 million primarily due to a decrease of clawback reserve reversal related to Fund II during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. 103 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $38.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $2.2 million, compared to $35.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The net increase of $2.2 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $4.1 million in compensation and benefits expense due to an increase in average headcount and (ii) a net increase of $1.4 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $3.3 million in profit sharing compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $94.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a net increase of $87.4 million, compared to $7.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. Net investment income increased by $87.4 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $47.8 million in distributions from realization events primarily from FRIC, FRID and the Mortgage Opportunities Funds I and II and (ii) an increase of $40.3 million in gain related to the sale of our GAGFAH common stock for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in realized losses on foreign currency hedges. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $12.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $33.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $0.2 million, compared to $33.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees decreased by $0.2 million primarily due to (i) a decrease of $1.8 million in management fees primarily from Fund III, Fund III Co, and Fund V Co primarily as a result of return of capital distributions and a decrease in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of fees for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) a net decrease of $2.5 million in management fees from the liquidation of FRIC and FRID, which both substantially liquidated their respective investments during the second quarter of 2014. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $4.3 million in management fees from Fund IV, Fund IV Co and Fund V primarily as a result of an increase in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital in the prior period, which impacted the computation of fees for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. There was no incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $1.5 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income decreased by $1.5 million primarily due to clawback reserve reversal related to Fund II during the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Expenses Expenses were $15.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $3.7 million, compared to $11.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The net increase of $3.7 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net increase of $3.1 million in compensation and benefit expenses due to an increase in average headcount, and (ii) a net increase of $1.2 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in profit sharing compensation expense for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $6.6 million, compared to $6.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income decreased by $6.6 million primarily due to (i) a decrease of $5.6 million in realized gain on investments due to a partial sale of our GAGFAH common stock for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , and (ii) a decrease of $1.0 million in distributions from realization events from our private equity funds for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . 104 Table of Contents Permanent Capital Vehicles The following table presents our results of operations for our permanent capital vehicles segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 50,434 $ 45,996 $ 4,438 $ 17,934 $ 14,215 $ 3,719 Incentive Income 40,676 7,299 33,377 15,936 6,099 9,837 Segment revenues total $ 91,110 $ 53,295 $ 37,815 $ 33,870 $ 20,314 $ 13,556 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 25,901 $ 20,828 $ 5,073 $ 7,133 $ 7,403 $ (270 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $5.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $50.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $4.4 million, compared to $46.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $4.4 million primarily as a result of (i) a $7.8 million increase in management fees primarily due to an increase in average AUM for New Residential which was spun off by Newcastle in May 2013, (ii) a $3.7 million increase in management fees due to a new management agreement with New Media which was spun off by Newcastle in February 2014, as well as an increase in average AUM as a result of equity raised by New Media during the third quarter of 2014, (iii) an increase of $2.0 million in management fees primarily due to an increase in WWTAI average AUM as a result of net capital inflows and (iv) an increase of $1.2 million in fees generated by our senior living property management business for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $5.0 million decrease in Newcastle management fees primarily due to the distribution of common shares of New Residential and New Media as described above resulting in a decrease in average AUM and (ii) a $5.1 million decrease in Eurocastle management fees primarily due to a decrease in average AUM as a result of their restructuring process and amended management agreement in April 2013. Incentive income was $40.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , an increase of $33.4 million, compared to $7.3 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $33.4 million primarily as a result of (i) an increase of $26.8 million of incentive income related to New Residential for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period, (ii) an increase of $6.4 million due to the exercise of a portion of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options and (iii) $0.2 million of incentive income related to WWTAI for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Expenses Expenses were $66.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $33.5 million, compared to $33.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $33.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $12.4 million increase in compensation and benefits expense primarily due to an increase in average headcount in Newcastle, New Residential and the senior living property management business, (ii) a net increase of $6.0 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses, (iii) an increase of $13.0 million in profit sharing expense related to the recognition of the incentive income discussed above (including a $6.4 million increase related to the exercise of a portion of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options allocated to employees) and (iv) an increase of $2.1 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.7 million, compared to $0.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income increased by $0.7 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $0.3 million in dividend income primarily from our direct investments in Newcastle and New Residential common stock and (ii) an increase of $0.4 million in other investment income. 105 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $0.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $17.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $3.7 million, compared to $14.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $3.7 million primarily due to (i) a $1.5 million increase in management fees due to a new management agreement with New Media which was spun off by Newcastle in February 2014, as well as an increase in average AUM as a result of equity raised by New Media during the third quarter of 2014, (ii) a $1.1 million increase in WWTAI management fees due to an increase in average AUM as compared to the prior period, (iii) a $0.5 million increase in fees generated by our senior living property management business for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (iv) a $0.7 million increase in management fees due to an increase in New Residential average AUM resulting from equity raised in 2014. Incentive income was $15.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $9.8 million, compared to $6.1 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $9.8 million primarily as a result of (i) an increase of $4.7 million primarily due to the recognition of incentive income related to New Residential for the three months ended September 30, 2014, (ii) an increase of $4.9 million due to the exercise of a portion of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options and (iii) $0.2 million of incentive income related to WWTAI for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Expenses Expenses were $27.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $14.1 million, compared to $13.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $14.1 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $5.8 million increase in compensation and benefits expense primarily due to an increase in average headcount in Newcastle, New Residential and the senior living property management business, (ii) a net increase of $2.6 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (iii) an increase of $6.5 million in profit sharing expense related to the recognition of the incentive income discussed above (including a $4.9 million increase related to the exercise of a portion of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicle options allocated to employees). These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.7 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.3 million, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income increased by $0.3 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $0.1 million in dividend income primarily from our direct investments in Newcastle and New Residential common stock and (ii) an increase of $0.2 million in other investment income. Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 103,373 $ 79,380 $ 23,993 $ 33,733 $ 30,634 $ 3,099 Incentive Income 2,627 97,324 (94,697 ) 1,339 (27,387 ) 28,726 Segment revenues - total $ 106,000 $ 176,704 $ (70,704 ) $ 35,072 $ 3,247 $ 31,825 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 12,191 $ 80,665 $ (68,474 ) $ (5,006 ) $ (9,769 ) $ 4,763 106 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $68.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $103.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $24.0 million, compared to $79.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $24.0 million primarily due to (i) a $24.9 million increase in management fees earned from the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) as a result of an increase in net capital inflows and (ii) a $5.1 million increase in management fees related to Fortress Redwood Fund (which launched in August 2013). These increases were partially offset by a $6.0 million net decrease in management fees from certain of our other liquid hedge funds and managed accounts primarily as a result of net capital outflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $94.7 million, compared to $97.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income decreased by $94.7 million primarily due to decreases of $62.7 million, $25.2 million, and $5.5 million in the incentive income generated by the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), and Fortress Macro MA I Fund, respectively, due to lower returns during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $87.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a net decrease of $11.4 million, compared to $98.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. The decrease of $11.4 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $16.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income discussed above and (ii) a decrease of $7.4 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $9.7 million in compensation and benefits expense and by a net increase of $3.1 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(6.4) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a change of $9.2 million, compared to net investment income of $2.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income changed by $9.2 million primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million impairment on Fortresss holdings of digital currency, (ii) an increase of $3.2 million in losses attributable to investments in our liquid hedge funds and (iii) an increase of $1.7 million in recorded impairments with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds as compared to the prior period. These increases in losses were partially offset by an increase of $1.6 million in distribution of earnings from realization events in special investments in liquid hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss decreased by $4.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $33.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $3.1 million, compared to $30.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $3.1 million primarily due to (i) a $6.2 million increase in management fees earned from the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), primarily as a result of an increase in net capital inflows and (ii) a $0.7 million increase in management fees related to Fortress Redwood Fund (which launched in August 2013). These increases were partially offset by a $3.8 million net decrease in management fees from our other liquid hedge funds and managed accounts, primarily as a result of net capital outflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $1.3 million for three months ended September 30, 2014 , a change of $28.7 million, compared to a $(27.4) million reversal of accrued incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income changed by $28.7 million primarily due to (i) the reversal of accrued incentive income of $21.8 million, $3.6 million and $2.0 million related to the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Fortress Macro MA I Fund, respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2013 as compared to (ii) $1.3 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2014 primarily related to the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund, Fortress Macro Funds (and related managed accounts) and Fortress Asia Macro Funds (and related managed accounts). 107 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $31.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $17.0 million, compared to $14.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $17.0 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $13.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income discussed above, (ii) an increase of $1.5 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments, (iii) an increase of $1.3 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses and (iv) a net increase of $0.4 million in compensation and benefits expense. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(9.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a change of $10.1 million, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income changed by $10.1 million primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million impairment on Fortresss holdings of digital currency, (ii) an increase of $4.0 million in losses attributable to investments in our liquid hedge funds and (iii) an increase of $2.3 million in recorded impairments with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds as compared to the prior period. These increases in losses were partially offset by a $2.1 million increase in distribution of earnings from realization events in special investments in liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 84,129 $ 75,435 $ 8,694 $ 28,796 $ 25,481 $ 3,315 Incentive Income 102,977 140,840 (37,863 ) 28,846 44,194 (15,348 ) Segment revenues - total $ 187,106 $ 216,275 $ (29,169 ) $ 57,642 69,675 $ (12,033 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 72,626 $ 91,715 $ (19,089 ) $ 17,968 $ 30,567 $ (12,599 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $19.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $84.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $8.7 million, compared to $75.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fee increased by $8.7 million primarily due to an increase of $8.4 million in management fees from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $103.0 million for nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $37.8 million, compared to $140.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income decreased by $37.8 million primarily due to (i) a decrease of $33.6 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds primarily due to relatively lower returns for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) a decrease of $5.2 million in incentive income generated by the Worden Funds mainly due to lower returns for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.9 million increase in incentive income from other investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $112.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $17.1 million, compared to $129.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease of $17.1 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $18.4 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income discussed above, (ii) a decrease of $1.6 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and (iii) a net decrease of $2.3 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by a $5.1 million increase in compensation and benefits expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. 108 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(2.2) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a change of $7.1 million, compared to net investment income of $4.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013. Net investment income changed by $7.1 million primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million impairment on Fortresss holdings of digital currency, (ii) a decrease of $1.2 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds and (iii) a decrease of $0.2 million in dividend income from a private investment for nine months ended September 30, 2013. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $12.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $28.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $3.3 million, compared to $25.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $3.1 million and $0.2 million primarily due to an increase in management fees from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds, respectively. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $28.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $15.4 million, compared to $44.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income decreased by $15.4 million primarily due to decreases of $15.7 million and $0.2 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds, respectively, primarily due to lower returns for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.6 million increase in incentive income from other investments for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $34.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $5.9 million, compared to $40.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The decrease of $5.9 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $5.8 million in profit sharing compensation expense and (ii) a decrease of $2.8 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $2.5 million in compensation and benefits expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(4.9) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a change of $6.5 million, compared to net investment income of $1.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income changed by $6.5 million primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million impairment on Fortresss holdings of digital currency and (ii) a decrease of $0.8 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds. Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 71,898 $ 71,218 $ 680 $ 23,571 $ 23,669 $ (98 ) Incentive Income 120,261 102,148 18,113 41,489 17,789 23,700 Segment revenues - total $ 192,159 $ 173,366 $ 18,793 $ 65,060 $ 41,458 $ 23,602 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 54,021 $ 50,391 $ 3,630 $ 18,044 $ 8,436 $ 9,608 109 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $3.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $71.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.7 million, compared to $71.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $0.7 million primarily due to an increase of $6.9 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund III and Real Estate Opportunities Fund attributable to net capital contributions made after the third quarter of 2013. This increase in management fees was partially offset by decreases of $1.9 million, $2.2 million, $1.1 million and $0.8 million in management fees related to Credit Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II, a certain FCO Managed Account and Net Lease Fund, respectively, primarily due to net capital distributions made after the third quarter of 2013. Incentive income was $120.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $18.1 million, compared to $102.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $18.1 million primarily due to (i) a net increase of $9.4 million in incentive income generated primarily by the Credit Opportunities Funds and FCO Managed Accounts as a result of an increase in distributions generated by realization events and (ii) a net increase of $9.5 million in incentive income generated by the Japan Opportunity Funds I and II during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $144.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $15.1 million, compared to $129.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $15.1 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $10.0 million increase in profit sharing compensation expense, (ii) a $4.5 million net increase in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses and (iii) a $0.7 million increase in accruals for Principal Performance Payments during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $6.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $0.1 million, compared to $6.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income decreased by $0.1 million primarily due to recorded impairment losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $9.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $23.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $0.1 million, compared to $23.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees decreased by $0.1 million primarily due to a decrease of $1.7 million from the Credit Opportunities Fund and related managed account, Credit Opportunities Fund II and related managed accounts and Net Lease Fund due to net capital distributions made after the third quarter of 2013. This decrease in management fees was partially offset by a $1.6 million increase in Credit Opportunities Fund III management fees attributable to net capital calls made after the third quarter of 2013. Incentive income was $41.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $23.7 million, compared to $17.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $23.7 million primarily due to an increase of $28.5 million in incentive income generated primarily by the Credit Opportunities Funds and FCO Managed Accounts as a result of an increase in distributions generated by realization events during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. This increase was partially offset by a $4.4 million decrease in incentive income generated by Japan Opportunity Funds I and II during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $49.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $14.9 million, compared to $34.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $14.9 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $12.0 million in profit sharing compensation expense and (ii) a net increase of $2.6 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. 110 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Net investment income was $2.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.9 million, compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income increased by $0.9 million primarily due to an increase in distributions of earnings from realization events in credit private equity funds for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 34,328 $ 25,859 $ 8,469 $ 12,280 $ 8,833 $ 3,447 Incentive Income 178 178 178 178 Segment revenues - total $ 34,506 $ 25,859 $ 8,647 $ 12,458 $ 8,833 $ 3,625 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (4,476 ) $ (6,043 ) $ 1,567 $ (1,804 ) $ (1,758 ) $ (46 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss decreased by $1.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $34.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $8.4 million, compared to $25.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased $8.4 million due to an increase in average AUM as a result of net client inflows. Incentive income was $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.2 million, compared to no incentive income for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $0.2 million primarily as a result of returns exceeding performance thresholds during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $39.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $6.2 million, compared to $33.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $6.2 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $3.9 million in compensation and benefits expense as a result of an increase in average headcount within Logan Circle (including the growth equities business which commenced in April 2013) during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $2.3 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , a net decrease of $0.9 million, compared to $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income decreased by $0.9 million primarily due to decrease in net realized and unrealized gains on equity securities managed by Logan Circles growth equities business. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by less than $0.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $12.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $3.4 million, compared to $8.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Management fees increased by $3.4 million due to an increase in average AUM primarily as a result of net client inflows. 111 Table of Contents Incentive income was $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $0.2 million, compared to no incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Incentive income increased by $0.2 million primarily as a result of returns exceeding performance thresholds during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $14.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a net increase of $1.9 million, compared to $12.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase of $1.9 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $1.1 million in compensation and benefits expense as a result of an increase in average headcount within Logan Circle during the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $0.9 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(0.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , a change of $1.7 million, compared to net investment income of $1.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Net investment income changed by $1.7 million primarily due to decrease in net realized and unrealized gains on equity securities managed by Logan Circles growth equities business. Unallocated Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 vs. 2013 2014 2013 $ 2014 2013 $ Pre-tax distributable earnings $ (1,497 ) $ (4,479 ) $ 2,982 $ (714 ) $ (558 ) $ (156 ) The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss decreased by $3.0 million, primarily as a result of (i) a decrease of $2.4 million in interest expense due to a decrease in the average debt balance and average interest rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $0.5 million in foreign currency translation gains for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $0.2 million, primarily due to (i) a decrease of $0.1 million in foreign currency translation gains and (ii) an increase of $0.1 million in interest expense due to an increase in the average debt balance for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as compared to the prior period. 112 Table of Contents Embedded Gains (Losses) The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of September 30, 2014 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund II 20 20 N/A Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment 9,736 9,736 N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 104,800 30,878 73,922 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment (D) 189,575 38,965 150,610 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 19,894 10,391 9,503 N/A Real Assets Funds 15,424 1,393 14,031 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 98,260 52,887 45,383 (10 ) Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Fund) 24,240 14,214 10,026 N/A Real Estate Opportunities Funds 10,659 9,541 1,129 (11 ) MSR Opportunities Funds 1,073 866 207 N/A Italian NPL Opportunities 3 3 N/A N/A Other Funds (combined) Private investment #1 297,823 207,348 90,475 N/A Private investment #2 90,638 20,503 70,135 N/A Permanent capital vehicles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 2,055 78 1,977 N/A Newcastle (NYSE: NCT) 4,383 289 4,094 N/A New Residential (NYSE: NRZ) 6,046 413 5,633 N/A New Media (NYSE: NEWM) 1,245 54 1,191 N/A WWTAI 3,799 3,354 457 (12 ) Other Hedge fund sidepocket investments 83,264 39,188 44,602 (526 ) Direct investments - Other 67,152 27,443 43,745 (4,036 ) Total $ 1,030,089 $ 457,808 $ 576,876 $ (4,595 ) (A) Represents the net asset value (NAV) of Fortresss investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortresss cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments taken for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. (D) Includes Fund V (GLPI Sisterco) and Fund V Coinvestment (GLPI Sisterco). Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3,