ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Groups condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as "condensed consolidated financial statements" or "historical condensed consolidated financial statements") included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $70.1 billion in AUM as of September 30, 2016 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of our over 1,750 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, receive reimbursements of certain expenses from funds we manage and earn investment income (loss) from our investments in our funds. We continue to invest capital in our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was mixed for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , with positive performance in some funds and negative performance in others, and overall our segment operating results were slightly down in comparison to the same period of 2015 . In addition, we have improved our capital structure by repurchasing our equity through a modified "Dutch auction" self-tender offer completed in March 2016. For more information about these topics, please refer to " Assets Under Management," " Performance of our Funds," and " Liquidity and Capital Resources" below. As of September 30, 2016 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $13.9 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America and Western Europe; and (ii) permanent capital vehicles, which includes publicly traded companies that are externally managed by Fortress pursuant to management agreements and a senior living property management business. The publicly traded companies invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets, including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing related assets, media assets, senior living properties and transportation and infrastructure assets. All of the capital of Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Investors ("WWTAI"), formerly a private fund managed by Fortress, was contributed to Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC ("FTAI") which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $18.3 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager or co-manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity ("PE") funds which are comprised of a family of "credit opportunities" funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of "real assets" funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in the following principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $4.5 billion of AUM which includes $4.2 billion of AUM relating to Graticule Asset Management Asia ("Graticule") as a result of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts transition on January 5, 2015. Fortress also received fees for providing infrastructure services (technology, back office, and related services) to Graticule through the termination of the infrastructure services agreement in May 2016. In addition, this business includes an endowment style fund, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers and direct investments. 43 In June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. In the fourth quarter of 2015, Fortress closed the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts. Michael Novogratz, a former principal, officer and director of Fortress, retired effective January 2016. In November 2015, Fortress purchased from Mr. Novogratz 56.8 million Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares at $4.50 per share, or an aggregate purchase price of $255.7 million . In connection with this purchase, Fortress paid $100.0 million of cash in November 2015 and issued a $155.7 million promissory note, of which one half of the principal amount matures in November 2016 and the remainder in November 2017. During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress prepaid $77.8 million of principal which was originally due in November 2016. Logan Circle our traditional asset management business, which has approximately $33.4 billion of AUM, provides institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our "fund investors"). An "alternative" asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Our private equity business also manages permanent capital vehicles, also described below. In addition, our liquid hedge fund business includes funds managed by an external manager in which we have a minority interest and we account for using the equity method ("Affiliated Manager"). Private equity style funds are typically "closed-end" funds, which means they work as follows: we solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may "draw" or "call" this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are publicly traded entities which are externally managed by us. "Externally managed" means that their senior management is typically employed by us and that they rely on us for their decision making. In exchange, we receive management fees, incentive income and, when we assist these entities in raising equity capital, options to purchase their common stock. "Publicly traded" means that their equity, in the form of common stock, is typically traded on a major public stock exchange such as the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, their equity investors (stockholders) may trade in and out of their positions, but Fortress continues to earn management fees and incentive income regardless of any turnover in ownership. These entities have indefinite lives and typically pay dividends or distributions to their stockholders only from earnings, while capital is reinvested. Hedge funds are typically "open-end" funds, which means they work as follows: we solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds, and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. Our credit hedge funds include the Mount Kellett Funds of which Fortress is co-manager. In addition, Fortress has a traditional asset management business. The traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements pursuant to our management agreements. For the Affiliated Manager, we receive a percentage of its earnings. 44 We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In addition, Fortress typically receives a number of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold by any such entity when raising equity capital. The options received by Fortress typically have a strike price equal to the market price of the relevant stock on the day of issuance and a ten-year term. If the value of the stock were to increase during the term of the option, the value received by Fortress upon exercise would exceed the strike price paid by Fortress. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors and the amount of capital managed by the Affiliated Manager, also known as our "assets under management" or "AUM;" Earn attractive returns on the investments we make; and Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Management fee paying assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf, when the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles raise capital such as in an equity offering or when our Affiliated Manager receives more capital. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes, and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments and return of capital distributions : In "closed-end" funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Similarly, AUM decreases in publicly traded investment vehicles, including the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, when return of capital distributions are made to investors. Redemptions : In "open-end" funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or "redeemed," at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. In addition, from time to time we may enter into transactions to manage or co-manage third party originated funds. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under " Assets Under Management." Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under " Performance of Our Funds." Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. 45 Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds, private equity funds and publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a "high water mark" for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the "preferred" return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in a fund is realized, subject to a "clawback." At the termination of a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or "clawed back") to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. We generally earn incentive income from publicly traded permanent capital vehicles based on a percentage of operating results in excess of specified returns to shareholders, generally calculated on a cumulative but not compounding basis. Generally, incentive income is earned quarterly and once incentive is earned, it is not subject to clawback. However, if at a later date the total incentive income received by us is in excess of the cumulative amount calculated as of this later date, we would have to make up that difference in order for us to begin earning incentive income again. 46 Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the fund's assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or manner which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources," " Debt Obligations," and " Covenants." 47 We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of not requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under " Liquidity and Capital Resources." Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based compensation, are discussed in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. In addition, we hold options in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned ("clawed back") to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the condensed consolidated balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility and other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Statement of Operations Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. 48 Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash, including profit sharing compensation. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash but has a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued (this amount is broken out from total compensation in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements). 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest expense. 4) Taxes. Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes, and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. The primary measure of operating performance used by management is "Distributable Earnings," which is further discussed in the "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. See "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and a former senior employee) and income tax expense. Management assesses the performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see " Results of Operations Segment Analysis" section herein. 49 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on AUM, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. In addition, we receive certain expense reimbursements from our funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues - both at Fortress and within our funds - depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and related financial and economic conditions. U.S. and global financial and economic conditions have a substantial impact on the success of our business strategy, including our ability to effect realizations and make new investments. In addition, equity market conditions impact the ability of our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments and the ability of our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of the debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds are directly and indirectly exposed to the debt markets: we invest in debt instruments, our funds borrow money to make investments and our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Our portfolio companies also require access to financing for their operations and refinancing of their debt. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. In general, strong financial and economic conditions including equity and debt markets enable us to execute our business strategy and generate attractive returns while dampening distressed investment strategies, and periods of weakening economies and markets and increased volatility can also present opportunities to invest at reduced valuations and in distressed asset classes, while negatively impacting fees, realizations and value creation. For example, a significant decline in the value of our funds' investments would require that our funds satisfy minimum return or "high water mark" requirements before generating incentive income and could subject us to "clawback" payments relating to incentive income previously collected. For hedge funds, opportunities to generate returns depend on their investment strategies, which may benefit from market declines or volatility. In the third quarter of 2016, global markets generally recovered and volatility fell following the initial shock and uncertainty that followed the United Kingdom Leave vote in the EU Referendum. Performance in equities was positive across all major markets and emerging market equities outperformed developed market equities. The U.S. Dollar depreciated against most major currencies, including the Euro and the Japanese Yen, but increased against the British Pound. Yields on global government bonds were up slightly in the second quarter after reaching lows for the year earlier in the summer. In the U.S., during the third quarter of 2016, there was a continued focus on the path of U.S. monetary policy and its impact on rates. The Federal Reserve raised the federal funds target rate by 25 basis points in mid-December 2015, the first rate hike in nine years, which reflected the Federal Reserve's confidence that the U.S. economy was on a path to "sustainable improvement". During the third quarter of 2016, the Federal Reserve decided to keep interest rates unchanged at both meetings. This posture reflected improvements in the labor market offset by softer corporate spending and an inflation level that continued to run below the longer-run objective. European equity markets rebounded in the third quarter following large declines post the referendum on British exit from the European Union ("Brexit"). At the August meeting the Bank of England cut their bank rate by 25 basis points and introduced a package of measures to support growth and the inflation target, including the purchase of corporate bonds and an expansion of the government bonds purchase program. Meanwhile, at its two meetings during the quarter, the ECB maintained benchmark rates and the current package of stimulus measures and refrained from expanding or extending the duration of the program. Over the third quarter of 2016, the Euro strengthened by 1.16% against the U.S. Dollar. The British Pound continued to weaken against the U.S. Dollar in the third quarter, declining 2.55%. Japanese equities finished up in the third quarter of 2016. Similar to European equity markets, the Japanese equity market rebounded following a significant downturn with the Brexit referendum results. The Bank of Japan met twice during the quarter and continued its monetary expansion of 80.0 trillion a year and maintained its negative interest rate policy. However, it increased the ETF purchase program, and refined its government bond buying program and inflation objective as headline inflation continues to run below zero. The Japanese Yen strengthened by 1.8% against the U.S. Dollar over the third quarter of 2016, and is now 15.7% stronger on the year versus the U.S. Dollar. 50 Table of Contents Market conditions over the last several years have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets since the financial crisis in 2008 increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the equity and debt markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of sufficient liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Improved economic conditions over the last several years, including relatively low interest rates, have benefited our business in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, a financing environment that has enabled our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to secure long-term financing, refinance debt at attractive levels, raise public and private equity capital and improve portfolio company profitability. Improving economic conditions and higher valuations in private equity funds have also contributed to our ability to raise capital for new investment vehicles and realize investments in existing funds. While improved conditions have created a more challenging environment for identifying new investments, we continue to deploy meaningful amounts of new capital. Recent market conditions, especially in the second half of 2015, however, have negatively affected the terms on which some of our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and portfolio companies were able to raise debt and equity capital but, as a general matter, positively impacted the environment for making new investments. Following a period of deleveraging, that resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices, near-term investment opportunities have become more sporadic in nature given pricing and market dynamics. However, potential opportunities exist, particularly where access to capital is restricted and in Europe where economies may remain uncertain. Despite the uncertain economic recovery, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as discussed above and illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. The strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on returns available from traditional investment products, and to a lesser extent on interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns of investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Solving for funding gaps and low interest rates have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. As a result, the amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment industry appears to have increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 and into the first three months of 2016. The outlook for the rest of the year remains generally positive, though the pace of growth may be decreasing. In addition, weaker performance of certain asset classes within the alternative investment industry may temper positivity in the industry. In addition, certain investors appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid time frame than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e., "private equity style") funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternative asset management industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As illustrated in " Performance of Our Funds" section herein, we have generated positive returns in some funds and weaker returns in others. As illustrated in " Assets Under Management" section herein, we have been able to raise additional capital in our funds. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the current market environment, as well as market conditions and other factors. 51 Table of Contents The strength of the industries or sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: financial services (particularly loan servicing and consumer finance), transportation and infrastructure, gaming, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate), and senior living. The overall performance of our funds may be affected by market conditions and trends related to these industries and sectors. Within the financial services industry, the regulatory pressure on banks in the U.S. after the financial crisis contributed to a positive market for the expansion of non-bank financial institutions. This development has recently led to increased regulatory focus on non-bank financial institutions, resulting in slower growth and increased costs within some of our financial servicing investments. With respect to mortgage servicing rights, excess mortgage servicing rights and other servicing related investments, the timing, size and potential returns of future investments may be less attractive than prior investments due to a number of factors including interest rates and increased competition. In addition, regulatory and government sponsored entity approval processes have been more extensive and taken longer, which has increased the time and effort required to complete transactions. Worldwide growth in trade and transportation continued to expand albeit at a more modest pace than in the previous years, with growing demand for both cargo and passenger-related transportation infrastructure and equipment. The senior living sector continues to benefit from a favorable consolidation and supply/demand dynamics as well as an appreciation of related real estate values , though market conditions became more challenging toward the end of the year. European markets have presented opportunities for distressed investments in country specific markets such as Italy. In addition, our credit PE funds, from time to time, may have significant investments in particular companies, industries or sectors. The credit PE funds have significant investments in certain sectors including commercial real estate, wireless spectrum and energy. 52 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity Credit (K) Funds (J) Permanent Capital Vehicles Hedge Funds (L) PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (L) Logan Circle Total AUM December 31, 2015 $ 8,991 $ 6,816 $ 8,799 $ 9,308 $ 5,409 $ 31,178 $ 70,501 Capital raised (A) 279 268 176 79 802 Increase in invested capital 19 66 680 765 Capital acquisitions (B) 682 682 Redemptions (C) (65 ) (467 ) (532 ) RCA distributions (D) (314 ) (314 ) Return of capital distributions (E) (717 ) (105 ) (4 ) (979 ) (29 ) (1,834 ) Adjustment for capital reset (F) (650 ) (650 ) Crystallized incentive income (G) (63 ) (63 ) Equity buyback (125 ) (125 ) Change in AUM of the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds (1,015 ) (256 ) (1,271 ) Divested Businesses (H) (177 ) (177 ) Net client flows (traditional) (1,174 ) (1,174 ) Income (loss) and foreign exchange (I) (572 ) (19 ) 450 298 (18 ) 3,382 3,521 AUM September 30, 2016 (J) $ 7,071 $ 6,846 $ 8,804 $ 9,483 $ 4,541 $ 33,386 $ 70,131 (A) Includes offerings of shares by our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any. (B) In March 2016, Fortress was appointed investment manager of certain non-Fortress originated funds (the "JP Funds"). (C) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to September 30, 2016 , if any. Redemptions are further detailed below. (D) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts (RCA) in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (E) For private equity funds and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity funds and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. For certain hedge funds, return of capital distributions represent distributions from special investments to investors who fully redeemed their capital from the fund. For credit hedge funds, return of capital distributions include income distributions from Fortress Japan Income Fund. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, return of capital distributions represent the portion of dividends paid and categorized as return of capital. (F) Effective January 1, 2016, Fortress no longer earns management fees from Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment which had AUM of $0.7 billion as of December 31, 2015. The reset date of certain credit PE funds is the first day following the expiration of the capital commitment period of the fund, which is generally three years subsequent to the fund's final investor close. For these funds, during the capital commitment period, AUM is based on capital commitments. Thereafter, AUM is generally based on aggregate capital contributed, reduced by certain distributions and adjusted for the fair value of each investment that is below the associated investment's contributed capital. (G) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (H) Includes $176.7 million of AUM related to the Fortress Convex Asia Funds which Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the fund to a third party. (I) Represents the change in AUM resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the funds. For certain private equity funds, also includes the impact of a change in AUM basis from invested capital to fair value for certain portfolio companies which became publicly traded. (J) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 2 to our condensed consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 3 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses therein. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (K) As of September 30, 2016 , the private equity funds and credit funds had approximately $0.6 billion and $6.4 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $2.8 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. (L) As of September 30, 2016 , liquid hedge funds AUM included $4.2 billion related to the Affiliated Manager and credit hedge funds AUM included $1.8 billion related to co-managed funds. 53 Table of Contents Redemptions The credit hedge funds allow investors to request that their capital be returned generally on a annual basis. Return of capital requests must be received at least 90 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2016 return of capital request notice date is October 2, 2016 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2016. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. In particular, return of capital requests within the flagship credit hedge fund for 2009 through 2015 (onshore fund only except for 2015 which included the offshore fund) are being paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or "RCA." The Mount Kellett Funds, which are co-managed by Fortress, and the JP Funds are not subject to redemptions. For our liquid hedge funds, prior to 2016, the Fortress Partners Funds and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds were subject to redemption. During the fourth quarter of 2015, Fortress closed the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts and in June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. Additionally, during the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. As such, the table below has been updated to exclude these funds and related managed accounts. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, are shown in the table below. The table below does not include redemptions related to funds managed by the Affiliated Manager. Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through September 30, 2016 (in thousands): Request/Notice Receipt Period Credit Hedge Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (A) Credit Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Requests Liquid Hedge Fund Redemption Notices Received Payments Made with Respect to those Notices - Inception to Date Liquid Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices 2016 $ 725,564 (E) $ 49,831 $ 675,733 (B) (B) (B) 2015 773,268 373,353 425,763 $ 303,575 $ 292,602 $ 2014 220,185 136,242 99,328 307,726 326,817 Prior 198,755 (C) (C) $ 1,399,579 (D) $ (A) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. (B) For 2016, the remaining investor capital of the Fortress Partners Funds and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds are comprised of sidepocket investments and are not subject to redemption. (C) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (D) For credit hedge funds, reflects (i) $723.9 million in RCAs which are to be paid over time as the underlying investments are realized and (ii) $675.7 million of 2016 redemption requests outstanding as of September 30, 2016. All or a portion of the $675.7 million of 2016 redemption requests outstanding may also be deemed as RCA. Any 2016 redemption requests not deemed to be RCA will be paid in the first quarter of 2017. The determination of whether the current year's redemption requests are RCA is generally made by December 31. (E) In October 2016, Fortress's credit hedge funds received $33.3 million of additional redemption requests. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 54 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2016 2015 September 30, 2016 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRRs Fund I Nov-99 Closed May-13 $ N/A $ N/A 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 Closed Dec-15 N/A 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 In Liquidation 763 1.4 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 In Liquidation 40 0.9 % Fund IV Mar-06 Jan-17 1,522 1,612 (0.8 )% Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 Jan-17 280 315 (2.0 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 3,458 4,499 5.1 % Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 294 425 (5.4 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) Sep-04 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A 19.4 % FRID (GAGFAH) Mar-05 Closed Nov-14 N/A N/A (0.3 )% FRIC (Brookdale) Mar-06 Closed Dec-14 N/A N/A (1.6 )% FICO (Intrawest) Aug-06 Jan-17 (100.0 )% FHIF (Holiday) Dec-06 Jan-17 459 583 2.9 % FECI (Florida East Coast Railway/Florida East Coast Industries) Jun-07 Feb-18 379 422 (0.6 )% MSR Opportunities Fund I A Aug-12 Aug-22 123 177 13.1 % MSR Opportunities Fund I B Aug-12 Aug-22 31 45 12.9 % MSR Opportunities Fund II A Jul-13 Jul-23 105 133 8.0 % MSR Opportunities Fund II B Jul-13 Jul-23 2 2 7.4 % MSR Opportunities MA I Jul-13 Jul-23 24 31 8.1 % Italian NPL Opportunities Fund Dec-13 Sep-24 228 20 (C) Fortress Equity Partners Mar-14 Mar-24 166 128 (C) Continued on next page. 55 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Nine Months Ended Inception September 30, Inception September 30, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2016 2015 to Date (D) 2016 2015 Publicly Traded Permanent Capital Vehicles Newcastle Investment Corp. Jun-98 Permanent $ 680 $ 680 N/A 10.6 % 10.9 % New Residential Investment Corp. May-13 Permanent 2,948 2,689 N/A 13.3 % 14.0 % Eurocastle Investment Limited Oct-03 Permanent 486 605 N/A 7.8 % 6.8 % New Media Investment Group Inc. Feb-14 Permanent 637 637 N/A 8.5 % 8.5 % New Senior Investment Group Inc. Nov-14 Permanent 1,024 1,089 N/A 9.0 % 9.9 % Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC (E) May-15 Permanent 1,071 1,196 N/A 10.6 % 10.3 % Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds (A) Jun-02 Non-redeemable 101 193 5.9 % (G) (18.1 )% Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Closed Nov-15 N/A 564 2.8 % N/A (17.5 )% Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Closed Dec-15 N/A 185 5.6 % N/A (5.1 )% Fortress Redwood Fund LTD Aug- 13 Closed Dec-15 N/A 680 (3.5 )% N/A (10.2 )% Fortress Partners Fund LP (A) Jul-06 Non-redeemable 121 322 1.6 % (G) (4.8 )% Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP (A) Nov-06 Non-redeemable 78 175 1.7 % (G) (5.5 )% Fortress Centaurus Global Funds Jun-14 Closed Sep-16 N/A 222 (3.2 )% (7.7 )% (3.5 )% Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Closed Jun-16 N/A 208 (3.8 )% N/A 1.9 % Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,677 4,379 10.7 % 6.2 % 4.9 % Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,172 1,165 9.5 % 3.3 % 0.7 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 169 225 9.0 % 3.0 % 0.9 % Worden Fund II Aug-10 Closed Feb-16 N/A 37 7.0 % (2.7 )% 0.0 % Japan Income Fund (Yen only) Dec-13 Redeemable 125 94 (B) (B) (B) Third Party Originated Funds JP Funds (A) (G) Non-redeemable 780 N/A (G) (G) (G) Value Recovery Funds and related assets (A) (G) Non-redeemable 41 150 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 56 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2016 2015 September 30, 2016 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 588 $ 600 23.5 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 457 517 16.1 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 1,473 1,794 9.8 % Credit Opportunities Fund IV Feb-15 Feb-27 684 312 (C) FCO Managed Accounts (H) Sep-08 to Jun-12 Apr-22 to Dec-24 1,634 1,851 14.5 % FCO Managed Accounts (H) Mar-15 to Jun-15 Mar-25 to Feb-28 524 206 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 50 129 5.8 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 55 118 4.1 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 75 64 5.8 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 5 4 6.1 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 33 41 6.4 % Japan Opportunity Fund (Yen only) Jun-09 Jun-19 118 172 32.6 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 397 424 25.5 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 479 450 28.2 % Japan Opportunity Fund III (Dollar) Dec-14 Dec-24 470 100 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund III (Yen) Dec-14 Dec-24 770 58 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Closed Dec-15 N/A 21.2 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 200 195 7.8 % Global Opportunities Fund II Jul-15 Jul-26 252 42 (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 119 93 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 10 8 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 63 130 15.6 % Real Estate Opportunities Fund II May-14 May-27 1,000 1,000 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 29 41 10.8 % Subtotal - all funds 30,666 33,039 Managed accounts (I) 1 371 Affiliated Manager and Co-managed Funds (I) 6,078 7,474 Total - Alternative Investments 36,745 40,884 Logan Circle 33,386 33,446 Total (J) $ 70,131 $ 74,330 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment have passed their contractual maturity date and are in the process of an orderly wind down. The publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Fund may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying sidepocket investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents (PE style redemption). The JP Funds' AUM includes $526.0 million of permanent equity. The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 87% of our alternative investment AUM as of September 30, 2016 . In June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. (B) Represents the following: For the private equity funds and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are 57 Table of Contents calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, returns represent the current dividend yield which is calculated by annualizing the most recently declared base dividend and dividing the result by the closing stock price for the period. Excludes the impact of special dividends declared in connection with REIT compliance, which may increase returns. There can be no assurance regarding the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles' respective dividend yields, which may fluctuate meaningfully as a result of changes in the amount of dividends paid in the future and/or changes in their respective stock prices. For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a new issue eligible, single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. No return is shown for Japan Income Fund as returns are not an accurate performance metric for this fund. For the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, inception to date returns are through October 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Also see Note G. For funds that are closed, the return(s) that are disclosed for the periods subsequent to closing represents the fund's return through its closing date. (C) Generally, these funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment or commitment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. (D) For credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. (E) WWTAI was a private fund formed in July 2011 and formerly managed by Fortress. All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. (F) The returns for Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds exclude the performance of special investments and the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) During the fourth quarter of 2015, the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds redeemed all of their investors liquid capital. As such, the remaining investor capital in these funds are comprised of sidepocket investments and their returns subsequent to the redemption of all investor liquid capital are not comparable to returns reported for prior historical periods. We began managing the non-Fortress originated JP Funds in March 2016. Their returns are not comparable since the majority of these funds were fully invested prior to Fortress becoming manager. We began managing the non-Fortress originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) AUM and returns shown for prior periods have not been adjusted for funds which no longer fall within the description of Note (C) above for the current period. (I) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts were transferred to Graticule, our Affiliated Manager. In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds. (J) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages CFT Co-invest Fund (CAD and USD), NIH (closed June 2015) and FPRF. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any management fee paying assets at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II, GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH), FRID (GAGFAH), FRIC (Brookdale), FICO (Intrawest) and Net Lease Fund I had no AUM or were closed as of September 30, 2016 and 2015 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 58 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see " Segment Analysis" section herein. Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 377,269 $ 413,057 $ (35,788 ) $ 123,491 $ 134,414 $ (10,923 ) Management fees: non-affiliates 42,066 45,657 (3,591 ) 14,455 15,400 (945 ) Incentive income: affiliates 71,334 155,154 (83,820 ) 17,396 48,773 (31,377 ) Incentive income: non-affiliates 40,862 735 40,127 31,000 439 30,561 Expense reimbursements: affiliates 166,041 168,544 (2,503 ) 54,602 59,988 (5,386 ) Expense reimbursements: non-affiliates 4,064 9,573 (5,509 ) 1,258 2,757 (1,499 ) Other revenues 23,832 6,476 17,356 18,943 2,248 16,695 Total Revenues 725,468 799,196 (73,728 ) 261,145 264,019 (2,874 ) Expenses Compensation and benefits 539,643 547,023 (7,380 ) 184,159 169,027 15,132 General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 122,304 160,254 (37,950 ) 38,321 53,989 (15,668 ) Interest expense 8,662 2,796 5,866 2,643 918 1,725 Transfer of interest in Graticule 101,000 (101,000 ) Total Expenses 670,609 811,073 (140,464 ) 225,123 223,934 1,189 Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) (22,077 ) (15,114 ) (6,963 ) 1,862 (39,888 ) 41,750 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (2,699 ) (7,890 ) 5,191 (390 ) 390 Earnings (losses) from equity method investees (2,420 ) (16,808 ) 14,388 27,467 (22,195 ) 49,662 Gain on transfer of Graticule 134,400 (134,400 ) Total Other Income (Loss) (27,196 ) 94,588 (121,784 ) 29,329 (62,473 ) 91,802 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 27,663 82,711 (55,048 ) 65,351 (22,388 ) 87,739 Income tax benefit (expense) (11,863 ) (16,784 ) 4,921 (7,008 ) (3,584 ) (3,424 ) Net Income (Loss) $ 15,800 $ 65,927 $ (50,127 ) $ 58,343 $ (25,972 ) $ 84,315 Allocation of Net Income (Loss): Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries $ 7,609 $ 42,149 $ (34,540 ) $ 27,181 $ (11,727 ) $ 38,908 Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries (6 ) 6 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders 8,191 23,784 (15,593 ) 31,162 (14,245 ) 45,407 $ 15,800 $ 65,927 $ (50,127 ) $ 58,343 $ (25,972 ) $ 84,315 Factors Affecting Our Results During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. 59 Table of Contents Each of these factors is described below. Average Management Fee Paying AUM Average management fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital or book equity (as defined) for the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle), (iv) or the AUM for the Affiliated Manager and co-managed funds. Average fee paying AUM for the Fortress Funds, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows (in millions): Private Equity Nine Months Ended Funds (A) Permanent Capital Vehicles (B) Credit Hedge Funds (C) Credit PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (D) Logan Circle Total September 30, 2016 $ 7,470 $ 6,770 $ 8,963 $ 9,347 $ 5,051 $ 32,861 $ 70,462 September 30, 2015 $ 9,582 $ 5,758 $ 6,940 $ 7,780 $ 7,677 $ 33,192 $ 70,929 Private Equity Three Months Ended Funds (A) Permanent Capital Vehicles (B) Credit Hedge Funds (C) Credit PE Funds Liquid Hedge Funds (D) Logan Circle Total September 30, 2016 $ 6,856 $ 6,745 $ 8,885 $ 9,363 $ 4,670 $ 33,733 $ 70,252 September 30, 2015 $ 9,391 $ 6,922 $ 7,657 $ 8,302 $ 7,372 $ 33,505 $ 73,149 (A) Effective January 1, 2016, Fortress no longer earns management fees from Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment. These funds had average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $0.8 billion for each of the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. Total management fees from these funds were $7.4 million and $2.5 million for the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. (B) In December 2015 and throughout 2016, certain publicly traded permanent capital vehicles announced share repurchase programs to purchase common stock which will reduce fee paying AUM upon repurchase. During 2015 and the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , these repurchase programs resulted in an AUM decrease of $14.0 million and $124.8 million, respectively. As of September 30, 2016 , there is remaining capacity under active share repurchase programs to purchase up to $289.8 million of common stock which would reduce fee paying AUM upon repurchase. (C) In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds and in March 2016 Fortress became investment manager of the JP Funds. (D) Liquid hedge funds includes AUM of the Affiliated Manager of $4.3 billion and $4.0 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $4.2 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we closed the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts. The Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts had average fee paying AUM of $2.6 billion and $2.1 billion for the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. Total management fees for the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts were $31.9 million and $7.6 million for the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. There was less than $0.1 million of incentive income for the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts for the nine months and three months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively. In June 2016, Fortress transferred its rights as general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party. The Fortress Convex Asia Funds had average fee paying AUM of $162.3 million and $212.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $213.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Total management fees for the Fortress Convex Asia Funds were $1.1 million and $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . There was no incentive income for the Fortress Convex Asia Funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and less than $0.1 million of incentive income for the nine and three months ended September 30, 2015 . During the third quarter of 2016, Fortress closed the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. The Fortress Centaurus Global Funds had average fee paying AUM of $172.3 million and $127.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $90.8 million and $206.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total management fees for the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds were $1.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $0.2 million and $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Total incentive income for the Fortress Centaurus Global Funds was less than $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and $0.0 million and less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 60 Table of Contents We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. Fortress's senior living property management subsidiary, FHC Property Management ("Blue Harbor"), has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by New Senior Investment Group Inc. ("New Senior"). For these services, Fortress receives management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of returns (or in some cases taxable income) or operating results earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant private equity style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. As of September 30, 2016 , we had $22.3 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold which is eligible to generate future incentive income and thus potentially contribute to our earnings. As of December 31, 2015, we had $21.9 billion of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold. The increase in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold was primarily related to positive performance from a private equity fund, our permanent capital vehicles and our credit hedge funds. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in incentive eligible NAV from our credit PE funds as a result of a net decrease in invested capital due to net distributions. Additionally, the September 30, 2016 incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds at or above their incentive income threshold decreased from $22.8 billion as of June 30, 2016 primarily related to a permanent capital vehicle not achieving its performance threshold as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by a net increase in the incentive eligible NAV from our credit hedge funds and our credit PE funds as a result of positive performance during the third quarter of 2016, which was offset by a net decrease in invested capital due to net distributions from our credit PE funds. Incentive eligible NAV is dependent on the performance of our funds which in turn is dependent on a number of factors, including but not limited to investment specific and overall market conditions, and the historical performance of our funds may not be indicative of future results. See " Performance of Our Funds" for additional information. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Our investment platform historically required changes in headcount, including changes in the number of hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as changes to leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house our employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount decreased to 1,096 asset management employees as of September 30, 2016 from 1,202 asset management employees as of September 30, 2015 primarily related to our liquid hedge fund business. Additionally, we had 1,841 employees as of September 30, 2016 at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities) which decreased compared to 1,881 such employees as of September 30, 2015 . 61 Table of Contents Revenues Nine months ended September 30 Total revenues were $725.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $73.7 million , compared to $799.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in revenues of $73.7 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $83.8 million in incentive income from affiliates, (ii) $35.8 million in management fees from affiliates, (iii) $5.5 million in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates, (iv) $3.6 million in management fees from non-affiliates and (iv) $2.5 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $40.1 million in incentive income from non-affiliates and (ii) $17.4 million in other revenues. The decrease in incentive income from affiliates of $83.8 million was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $66.7 million from our credit PE funds related to a decrease in non-clawbackable tax distributions and non-clawbackable incentive income as a result of realization events which resulted in the recognition of revenue as contingencies for repayment were resolved, (ii) a net decrease of $5.2 million in incentive income recognized from our permanent capital vehicles, primarily attributable to a $10.1 million decrease related to WWTAI and New Media, partially offset by an increase of $5.0 million related to New Residential and New Senior, and (iii) a net decrease of $12.6 million from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income earned on RCA distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.8 million in crystallized incentive income earned from our liquid hedge funds. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $35.8 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $25.7 million as a result of the closing of the Fortress Macro Funds in the fourth quarter of 2015, (ii) $22.9 million related to permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period, (iii) $7.4 million related to Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment as we no longer receive management fees effective January 1, 2016, (iv) $4.1 million from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016, (v) $12.9 million from our other liquid hedge funds and our other private equity funds as a result of decreases in their average AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $0.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and (vi) $0.6 million from Logan Circle as a result of a decrease in average AUM from affiliates of $1.5 billion. These decreases were partially offset by (i) net increases from our permanent capital vehicles and credit PE funds of $13.2 million and $8.5 million, respectively, as a result of increases in the average management fee paying AUM of $1.0 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively, (ii) $10.3 million related to a co-management agreement which began in July 2015 and (iii) $5.0 million related to the management of the JP Funds which began in March 2016. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $5.5 million was primarily related to the closing of the Fortress Macro Fund related managed accounts. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $3.6 million was primarily related to a decrease of $6.3 million as a result of the closing of the Fortress Macro Fund related managed accounts in the fourth quarter of 2015. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $2.8 million related to Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average AUM from non-affiliates of $1.2 billion and an increase in the average management fee rate earned. The decrease in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $2.5 million was related to a $12.4 million decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our liquid hedge funds primarily related to the Fortress Macro Funds which closed during the fourth quarter of 2015, partially offset by an $8.1 million increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our permanent capital vehicles. The increase in incentive income from non-affiliates of $40.1 million was primarily related to an increase in crystallized incentive income from a certain credit PE managed account as a result of realization events. The increase in other revenues of $17.4 million was primarily attributable to income from other investments as a result of distributions and realization events which resulted in the recognition of non-clawbackable revenue as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved. Three months ended September 30 Total revenues were $261.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $2.9 million , compared to $264.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . 62 Table of Contents The decrease in revenues of $2.9 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $31.4 million in incentive income from affiliates, (ii) $10.9 million in management fees from affiliates, (iii) $5.4 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates, (iv) $0.9 million in management fees from non-affiliates and (v) $1.5 million in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates. These decreases were partially offset by increases of (i) $30.6 million in incentive income from non-affiliates and (ii) $16.7 million in other revenues. The decrease in incentive income from affiliates of $31.4 million was primarily attributable to a net decrease of $43.1 million from our credit PE funds related to a decrease in non-clawbackable tax distributions, as compared to the prior period, and a decrease in non-clawbackable incentive income as a result of realization events which resulted in the recognition of revenue as contingencies for repayment were resolved during the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was partially offset by (i) a net increase of $7.0 million in incentive income recognized from our permanent capital vehicles, primarily attributable to a $9.1 million increase related to New Residential and New Senior and partially offset by a $2.1 million decrease related to New Media and (ii) a net increase of $4.8 million from our credit hedge funds primarily due to a decrease in incentive income earned on RCA distributions from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $10.9 million was primarily attributable to decreases of (i) $5.9 million as a result of the closing of the Fortress Macro Funds in the fourth quarter of 2015, (ii) $2.5 million related to Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment as we no longer receive management fees effective January 1, 2016, (iii) $4.4 million from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016 and (iv) $7.4 million from our other liquid hedge funds and our other private equity funds as a result of decreases in their average AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $0.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. These decreases were partially offset by (i) an increase of $2.3 million related to the permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , (ii) a net increase of $4.2 million from our credit PE funds as a result of an increase in the average AUM of $1.1 billion and (iii) an increase of $2.3 million related to the management of the JP Funds which began in March 2016. The decrease in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $5.4 million was related to a $4.3 million decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our liquid hedge funds primarily related to the Fortress Macro Funds which closed during the fourth quarter of 2015. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $1.5 million was primarily related to the closing of the Fortress Macro Fund related managed accounts. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $0.9 million was primarily related to a decrease of $1.7 million as a result of the closing of the Fortress Macro Fund related managed accounts in the fourth quarter of 2015. This decrease was partially offset by an increase of $0.8 million related to Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average AUM from non-affiliates of $1.6 billion. The increase in incentive income from non-affiliates of $30.6 million was primarily related to an increase in crystallized incentive income from a certain credit PE managed account as a result of realization events. The increase in other revenues of $16.7 million was primarily attributable to income from other investments as a result of distributions and realization events which resulted in the recognition of non-clawbackable revenue as contingencies for repayment were resolved. Expenses Nine months ended September 30 Expenses were $670.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $140.5 million , compared to $811.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 included a non-cash expense of $101.0 million related to the transfer of an interest in Graticule. Excluding the impact of the Graticule transfer, expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 decreased by $39.5 million as compared to $710.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses is primarily due to (i) a decrease in compensation and benefits of $7.4 million and (ii) a decrease in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $38.0 million . These decreases were partially offset by an increase in interest expense of $5.9 million . Total compensation and benefits decreased by $7.4 million primarily due to (i) a $10.9 million decrease in equity based compensation, (ii) a $7.2 million decrease in Principal Performance Payments in our private equity business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and (iii) a $2.2 million decrease in profit sharing expenses related to our credit hedge funds and liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing 63 Table of Contents interests held by employees in the respective funds. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $9.1 million increase in profit sharing expenses related to our permanent capital vehicles, including the impact of tandem options, and credit PE funds primarily as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interest held by employees in the respective period and (ii) a $3.3 million increase in Principal Performance Payments in our credit business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds. The decrease in general, administrative and other expenses of $38.0 million was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $16.8 million in depreciation and amortization expenses primarily related to a $18.2 million write-off of certain software and technology-related assets in the liquid hedge fund business which were deemed to be impaired during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , (ii) a decrease of $4.0 million in market data costs primarily related to our liquid hedge fund business, (iii) a decrease of $3.8 million in professional fees and (iv) a decrease of $13.4 million in general and other expenses. The increase in interest expense of $5.9 million primarily related to an increase in the average outstanding debt balance for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. The average outstanding debt balance increased primarily from the issuance of a promissory note to a former principal to purchase his Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares. Three months ended September 30 Expenses were $225.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $1.2 million , compared to $223.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in expenses was primarily due to (i) an increase in compensation and benefits of $15.1 million and (ii) an increase in interest expense of $1.7 million . This decrease was partially offset by a decrease in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $15.7 million . The decrease in general, administrative and other expenses of $15.7 million was primarily related to (i) a decrease in depreciation and amortization expenses of $10.8 million primarily related to a $10.7 million write-off of certain software and technology-related assets in the liquid hedge fund business which were deemed to be impaired during the three months ended September 30, 2015 , (ii) a decrease of $1.1 million in market data costs primarily related to our liquid hedge fund business, (iii) a decrease of $1.2 million in professional fees and (iv) a decrease of $2.6 million in general and other expenses. Total compensation and benefits increased by $15.1 million primarily due to (i) a $21.3 million increase in profit sharing expenses related to our credit hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles, including the impact of tandem options, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds and (ii) a $3.0 million increase in Principal Performance Payments in our credit business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $6.6 million decrease in profit sharing expenses related to our credit private equity and liquid hedge funds primarily as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective funds and (ii) a $0.7 million decrease in Principal Performance Payments in our private equity business as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds. The increase in interest expense of $1.7 million primarily related to an increase in the average outstanding debt balance for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. The average outstanding debt balance increased primarily from the issuance of a promissory note to a former principal to purchase his Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares. Current and Future Compensation Expense We seek to compensate our employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation and retention, within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan, and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. Due to the approaching expiration of our previous equity incentive plan, the adoption of our current equity incentive plan was proposed for approval by our shareholders on May 19, 2016 and subsequently became effective on June 3, 2016. 64 Table of Contents In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our non-vested equity-based awards outstanding as of September 30, 2016 of $64.5 million with a weighted average recognition period of 3.6 years. Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses, and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income when it becomes probable and reasonably estimable that incentive income will be received. Credit hedge fund and liquid hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund "net management fees" (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by business in Note 7 to our condensed consolidated financial statements contained herein. Profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with key traders and investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. As of September 30, 2016 , we have $1.3 billion of gross undistributed incentive income. If this incentive income were realized, we would also recognize an additional $493.9 million of compensation expense. From time to time, senior management engages a compensation consultant to provide management with surveys to help us understand how the compensation we offer to our employees compares to the compensation our peers offer to their employees. Other Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Other income (loss) was $(27.2) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $121.8 million , compared to $94.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Other income (loss) for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 included a non-cash gain of $134.4 million related to the transfer of an interest in Graticule. Excluding the impact of the Graticule transfer, other income (loss) for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 resulted in a net increase of $12.6 million as compared to $(39.8) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The net increase of $12.6 million was primarily related to (i) a net realized and unrealized gain of $17.6 million in the fair value of our direct investments, primarily options and common stock held in our publicly traded private equity portfolio companies, for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to a net realized and unrealized loss of $(11.9) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , resulting in a net increase of $29.2 million, (ii) a net increase of $14.4 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity funds and credit PE funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period, (iii) the recognition of a $2.7 million expense associated with an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to $7.9 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , resulting in a net increase of $5.2 million, (iv) the recognition of a $1.7 million loss related to our holdings of digital currency during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and (v) a $1.7 million gain on the sale of certain software and technology-related assets to Graticule during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 . These increases were partially offset by a net realized and unrealized loss of $(38.5) million in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to a net realized and unrealized gain of $2.5 million in the prior period, resulting in a net decrease of $41.0 million. Three months ended September 30 Other income (loss) was $29.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $91.8 million , compared to $(62.5) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The net increase of $91.8 million is primarily related to (i) a net increase of $49.7 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, credit PE funds and liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period, and (ii) a net realized and unrealized gain of $6.0 million in the fair value of our direct investments, primarily options and common stock held in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and publicly traded private equity portfolio companies, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to a net realized and unrealized loss of $(33.8) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , resulting in a net increase of $39.8 million. Income Taxes Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under " Critical Accounting Policies" below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein. 65 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , Fortress recognized income tax expense of $11.9 million and $16.8 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense are (i) changes in annual taxable income applicable to Class A shareholders and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods) and (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure. Factors that impacted the period-over-period increase (decrease) in income taxes are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ (6,278 ) Change in foreign and state income taxes (B) 11,875 Change in mix of business (C) 5,272 Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (D) (6,032 ) Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (E) (1,817 ) Change in tax credits and other deductions (7,941 ) Total change (F) $ (4,921 ) (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are due to an increase or decrease in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders' ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) Primarily related to enacted legislative changes to New York City corporate taxation, which increased the value of certain future tax benefits in 2015. (C) For the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , the amount of income passed through to non-corporate tax paying shareholders was lower when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , resulting in an increase in income tax expense in 2016. (D) Primarily related to the change in the valuation allowance associated with the portion of the deferred tax asset that would be realized only in connection with future capital gains. (E) Relates to the tax receivable agreement (discussed in Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein) which is not tax deductible and represents a significant permanent tax/GAAP difference. (F) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. Three months ended September 30 For the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 , Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $7.0 million and $3.6 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense are (i) changes in annual taxable income applicable to Class A shareholders and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods) and (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure. Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended September 30 Principals' and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $42.1 million to $7.6 million , a decrease of $34.5 million , primarily attributable to a decrease of $34.6 million in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the principals and a former senior employee, partially offset by an increase of less than $0.1 million in Others' interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The $34.6 million decrease in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the principals and a former senior employee was primarily a result of (i) a $33.4 million decrease resulting from a decrease of $63.8 million in Fortress's shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and (ii) a net decrease of $1.2 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group primarily related to the purchase of Fortress Operating Group units from a former principal during the fourth quarter of 2015, the issuance of Class A shares related to equity-based compensation and director restricted share grants during 2015 and 2016 and the conversion of FOG units by a former senior employee during the third quarter of 2016, partially offset by the repurchase and cancellation of Class A shares and Fortress Operating Group units during the first quarter of 2016. 66 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30 Principals' and Others' Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries increased from $(11.7) million to $27.2 million , an increase of $38.9 million , primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $38.7 million in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the principals and a former senior employee and (ii) a $0.2 million increase in Others' interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The $38.7 million increase in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the principals and a former senior employee was primarily a result of a $43.3 million increase resulting from an increase of $84.5 million in Fortress's shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase of $43.3 million was partially offset by a net decrease of $4.5 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group primarily related to the purchase of Fortress Operating Group units from a former principal and the issuance of Class A shares related to equity-based compensation and director restricted share grants during 2015 and 2016, and the conversion of FOG units by a former senior employee during the third quarter of 2016, partially offset by the repurchase and cancellation of Class A shares and Fortress Operating Group units during the first quarter of 2016. Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries represent the share of income (loss) attributable to equity interests which are redeemable and not owned by Fortress. Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) credit hedge funds, (iv) credit PE funds, (v) liquid hedge funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. Because of such differences in our segments' strategies and investor terms, each segment requires different types of management focus and those segments are managed separately. For segment results of operations, the amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and a former senior employee) and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, "Financial Statements Segment Reporting," which includes a complete discussion of distributable earnings basis impairment and reserves, including the methodology used in estimating the amounts as well as the amounts incurred in the relevant periods. "Distributable earnings" attributable to the Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote by Fortress's CODM (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were earned on a quarterly basis, less (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, 67 Table of Contents c. adding the receipt of cash or proceeds from the sale of shares received (a) as incentive income from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (b) pursuant to the exercise of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, in excess of their strike price, d. adding incentive income received from third parties which is subject to contingent repayment less incentive income from third parties that is no longer subject to contingent repayment, Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain investments in the Fortress Funds and certain other interests or assets that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, including dividends, from these funds, less (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, less (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on options held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on derivatives, direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) subtracting management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of options from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, (iv) for 2015, subtracting the gain on transfer of Graticule, Expenses (v) adding or subtracting the employee profit sharing portion of (i) unrealized gains (losses) related to foreign exchange derivative contracts used to economically hedge future estimated incentive income and (ii) intrinsic clawback, if any, which represents incentive income previously received from a fund that would be clawed back if the fund were liquidated at the end of the period at its NAV, (vi) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles assigned to employees, RSUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense) and restricted shares), (vii) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (viii) for 2015, adding back the expense related to the transfer of interest in Graticule, (ix) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units and (x) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (see Note 5 to our condensed consolidated financial statements included herein). 68 Table of Contents Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 72,681 $ 86,891 $ (14,210 ) $ 21,191 $ 28,515 $ (7,324 ) Incentive Income Segment revenues total $ 72,681 $ 86,891 $ (14,210 ) $ 21,191 $ 28,515 $ (7,324 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 44,524 $ 44,851 $ (327 ) $ 13,803 $ 15,691 $ (1,888 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $0.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $72.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $14.2 million , compared to $86.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in management fees was attributable to a decrease of (i) $9.2 million primarily from Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment, FHIF, Fund V Coinvestment as a result of decreases in average AUM due to return of capital distributions and/or a decrease in the average market value of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of management fees as compared to the prior period and (ii) $7.4 million from Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment , which are no longer subject to management fees effective January 2016. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $2.5 million primarily from Fortress Equity Partners and Italian NPL Opportunities Fund as a result of an increase in average AUM due to net capital contributed. Expenses Expenses were $27.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $14.8 million, compared to $42.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $10.7 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) a $4.1 million net decrease in compensation and benefits expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(0.8) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a decrease of $0.9 million, compared to $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The net investment loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was primarily due to the impairment of a certain private equity investment, partially offset by proceeds from the sale of a certain private equity investment and realizations from our private equity funds. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $1.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $21.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $7.3 million , compared to $28.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in management fees was attributable to a decrease of (i) $5.5 million primarily from Fund IV, Fund IV Coinvestment, FHIF, Fund V and MSR Opportunities Funds as a result of decreases in average AUM due to return of capital distributions and/or a decrease in the average market value of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of management fees as compared to the prior period and (ii) $2.5 million from Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment , which are no longer subject to management fees effective January 2016. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.6 million from Italian NPL Opportunities Fund as a result of an increase in average AUM due to net capital contributed. 69 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $7.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $5.5 million, compared to $12.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $2.7 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) a $2.8 million net decrease in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Permanent Capital Vehicles The following table presents our results of operations for our permanent capital vehicles segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 81,886 $ 68,827 $ 13,059 $ 27,456 $ 27,118 $ 338 Incentive Income 26,191 75,517 (49,326 ) 10,271 (1,476 ) 11,747 Segment revenues total $ 108,077 $ 144,344 $ (36,267 ) $ 37,727 $ 25,642 $ 12,085 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 41,174 $ 74,364 $ (33,190 ) $ 14,288 $ 8,282 $ 6,006 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $33.2 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $81.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $13.1 million compared to $68.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $8.4 million from New Residential and New Senior related to increases in average AUM as a result of equity raised during 2015 and 2016, (ii) $2.2 million related to a new management agreement as a result of the FTAI IPO in May 2015, (iii) $1.9 million from Eurocastle related to an increase in the average management fee rate earned and (iv) $0.4 million from Blue Harbor. Incentive income was $26.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $49.3 million , compared to $75.5 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in incentive income was primarily attributable to a decrease of (i) $53.1 million due to the exercise of our options and sale of resulting shares in New Residential, New Senior and Newcastle, (ii) $3.0 million in incentive income related to New Media and (iii) $0.4 million in incentive income related to FTAI. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $7.2 million in incentive income related to New Residential, Eurocastle and New Senior. Expenses Expenses were $68.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $2.4 million, compared to $71.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to a $7.3 million decrease in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. This decrease was partially offset by increases of (i) $3.6 million in compensation and benefits, (ii) $0.9 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses and (iii) a $0.4 million increase in profit sharing compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. 70 Table of Contents Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.7 million, compared to $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to an increase in dividends from our direct investments in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $6.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $27.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $0.3 million , compared to $27.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $0.6 million from New Residential related to increases in average AUM as a result of equity raised in the third quarter of 2016, (ii) $0.4 million from Eurocastle related to an increase in the average management fee rate earned and (iii) $0.1 million from Blue Harbor. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million from FTAI and New Senior related to decreases in average AUM during the third quarter of 2016, as compared to the prior period. Incentive income (loss) was $10.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $11.7 million , compared to $(1.5) million of incentive loss recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $8.7 million in incentive income related to New Residential, (ii) a net $3.6 million increase due to the exercise of options in New Residential, New Senior and Newcastle, (iii) $1.1 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle and (iv) $0.5 million in incentive income related to New Senior. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $2.1 million in incentive income related to New Media. Expenses Expenses were $24.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $6.3 million, compared to $17.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in expenses were primarily attributable to (i) a $4.7 million increase in profit sharing compensation expense, (ii) a $1.3 million increase in compensation and benefits expense and (iii) a $1.0 million increase in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in accruals for Principal Performance Payments for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.1 million, compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in net investment income was primarily attributable to an increase in dividends from our direct investments in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 112,572 $ 95,726 $ 16,846 $ 38,100 $ 36,216 $ 1,884 Incentive Income 84,015 74,183 9,832 44,256 1,309 42,947 Segment revenues total $ 196,587 $ 169,909 $ 26,678 $ 82,356 37,525 $ 44,831 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 76,242 $ 70,769 $ 5,473 $ 35,799 $ 12,855 $ 22,944 71 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $5.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $112.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $16.8 million , compared to $95.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $11.1 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds, which began in July 2015, (ii) $5.0 million related to the management of the JP Funds, which began in March 2016 and (iii) $1.9 million from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, Fortress Japan Income Fund and Value Recovery Funds. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $1.1 million in management fees from the Worden Funds. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $84.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $9.8 million , compared to $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to (i) a net increase of $6.5 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, (ii) an increase of $2.3 million in incentive income generated from other investments and (iii) an increase of $0.6 million in incentive income generated by Fortress Japan Income Fund and Worden Funds as a result of higher returns for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the prior period. The net increase of $6.5 million in incentive income from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds was primarily attributable to an increase of $19.3 million as a result of higher returns for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period, partially offset by a decrease of $12.8 million as a result of a decrease in RCA distributions. Expenses Expenses were $123.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $22.7 million, compared to $100.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $17.9 million increase in compensation and benefits expense related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds, which began in July 2015, and the management of the JP Funds, which began in March 2016, (ii) a $3.7 million increase in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses as compared to the prior period and (iii) a $2.1 million increase in accruals for Principal Performance Payments for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a $1.0 million decrease in profit sharing compensation expense. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $3.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $1.6 million, compared to $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in net investment income was primarily related to (i) a $0.8 million increase in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds and (ii) a $0.6 million increase in net investment income generated from other investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $22.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $38.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $1.9 million , compared to $36.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $2.3 million related to the management of the JP Funds, which began in March 2016, and (ii) $1.7 million from the Drawbridge Opportunities Funds, Fortress Japan Income Fund and Value Recovery Funds. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of (i) $1.8 million related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett Funds which began in July 2015 and (ii) $0.4 million from the Worden Fund. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $44.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $42.9 million , compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $37.4 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds as a result of higher returns for the three months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to the prior period, and an increase in RCA distributions, (ii) $4.1 million in incentive income generated from other investments and (iii) $1.2 million in incentive income generated by the Worden Fund as a result of higher returns for the three months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.2 million in incentive income from Fortress Japan Income Fund. 72 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $48.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $22.8 million, compared to $25.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $14.8 million increase in profit sharing compensation expense related to the increase of incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period, (ii) a $4.8 million increase in compensation and benefits expense related to the co-management of the Mount Kellett, which began in July 2015, and the management of the JP Funds, which began in March 2016 and (iii) a $4.1 million increase in accruals for Principal Performance Payments as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by a $0.8 million decrease in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $0.9 million, compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in net investment income was primarily related to a $1.3 million increase in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.3 million in net investment income from other investments for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 94,842 $ 86,431 $ 8,411 $ 33,182 $ 28,986 $ 4,196 Incentive Income 196,131 153,924 42,207 57,880 70,301 (12,421 ) Segment revenues total $ 290,973 $ 240,355 $ 50,618 $ 91,062 $ 99,287 $ (8,225 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 106,936 $ 77,012 $ 29,924 $ 31,550 $ 38,398 $ (6,848 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $29.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $94.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $8.4 million , compared to $86.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was attributable to an increase of (i) $8.5 million related to Japan Opportunities Fund III as a result of additional AUM raised subsequent to the third quarter of 2015 and for which fees are based on capital commitments of the fund, (ii) $7.7 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund IV and related managed accounts as a result of an increase in their average AUM primarily due to net capital contributed during the third quarter of 2015 and thereafter and (iii) $3.9 million related to Global Opportunities Fund II, which began earning fees in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of (i) $8.9 million primarily related to Credit Opportunities Funds I, II, III and related managed accounts, Long Dated Value Funds and Japan Opportunities Funds I and II as a result of a decrease in average AUM due to net capital distributed and (ii) $3.0 million related to Real Estate Opportunities Funds I and II. Incentive income was $196.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $42.2 million compared to $153.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income is primarily attributed to an increase of (i) $53.6 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunities Funds I and II, (ii) $8.1 million in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Funds I and II and Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund, (iii) $7.7 million in net incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Fund I and related managed accounts and (iv) $2.4 million in incentive income received from the Real Assets Fund. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of (i) $28.8 million in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Funds II and III and related managed accounts and (ii) $0.8 million in incentive income received from Long Dated Value Fund III. 73 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $198.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $25.5 million, compared to $172.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $18.9 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income described above for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , (ii) a net increase of $4.4 million in compensation and benefits expense, (iii) a $1.4 million increase in general and administrative expenses and certain corporate allocable expenses and (iv) an increase of $0.7 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $14.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $4.7 million, compared to $9.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment income increased primarily due to a $6.5 million increase in distribution of earnings related to realization events in our credit PE funds. This increase was partially offset by a $1.3 million realized gain on foreign exchange derivative contracts for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $6.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $33.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $4.2 million , compared to $29.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to an increase of (i) $2.6 million related to Global Opportunities Fund II, (ii) $2.4 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund IV and related managed accounts as a result of an increase in average AUM due to net capital contributed during the third quarter of 2015 and thereafter and (iii) $2.2 million related to Japan Opportunities Fund III as a result of additional AUM raised subsequent to the third quarter of 2015 and for which fees are based on capital commitments of the funds. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $3.1 million primarily related to Credit Opportunities Fund I, II, III and related managed accounts and Long Dated Value Funds primarily as a result of a decrease in average AUM due to net capital distributed. Incentive income was $57.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $12.4 million , compared to $70.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in incentive income is primarily attributed to (i) a $30.4 million net decrease in incentive income received from Credit Opportunities Funds I, II and III and related managed accounts and (ii) $0.8 million decrease in incentive income from Long Dated Value Funds. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of (i) $14.5 million in incentive income received from Japan Opportunities Funds I and II, (ii) $3.4 million increase in incentive income received from Real Estate Opportunities Funds I and II and Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund and (iii) $0.8 million increase in incentive income received from Real Assets Fund. Expenses Expenses were $63.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $3.0 million, compared to $66.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $6.6 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the net decrease in recognition of incentive income described above for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and (ii) $1.0 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of (i) $3.5 million in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) a $1.1 million increase in general and administrative expenses and certain corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $3.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $1.6 million, compared to $5.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment income decreased primarily due to a $1.3 million realized gain on foreign exchange derivative contracts for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . 74 Table of Contents Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 13,391 $ 55,385 $ (41,994 ) $ 1,291 $ 15,704 $ (14,413 ) Incentive Income 996 450 546 2 395 (393 ) Segment revenues total $ 14,387 $ 55,835 $ (41,448 ) $ 1,293 $ 16,099 $ (14,806 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (8,965 ) $ (1,164 ) $ (7,801 ) $ (4,978 ) $ (4,492 ) $ (486 ) Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable losses increased by $7.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $13.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $42.0 million , compared to $55.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in management fees was primarily attributable to a decrease of (i) $31.9 million from the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts, which closed during the fourth quarter of 2015, (ii) $5.2 million from Fortress Partners Funds and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds as a result of a decrease in average AUM due to redemptions, (iii) $4.1 million from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016 and (iv) $0.9 million primarily related to Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party in June 2016. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.5 million , compared to $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income was attributable to an increase of $0.8 million in incentive income primarily related to the Fortress Partners Funds. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.3 million in incentive income related to Fortress Convex Asia Funds recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Expenses Expenses were $24.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $44.9 million, compared to $69.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $29.3 million decrease in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses primarily related to an impairment of $18.2 million of certain software and technology-related assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , (ii) a $14.6 million and $1.0 million decrease in compensation and benefits and profit sharing compensation expense, respectively, primarily due to the closing of the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts during the fourth quarter of 2015 and a decrease in operating results of our liquid hedge fund business for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Earnings from the Affiliated Manager Earnings from the Affiliated Manager were $4.9 million and $10.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to our interests in the Affiliated Manager which began in January 2015. The decrease in earnings from the Affiliated Manager was primarily due to a decrease in Graticules earnings, which was primarily a result of an increase in operating expenses, during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(3.6) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $5.7 million, compared to $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment income decreased primarily due to (i) a $9.9 million decrease in distribution of earnings related to realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds and (ii) a $1.2 million increase in losses from our investments in our liquid hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $2.5 million decrease in impairment charges with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds (ii) a $1.7 million gain recognized from the sale of certain software and technology-related assets during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period and (iii) a $1.4 million impairment on Fortress's holdings of digital currency recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . 75 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable losses increased by $0.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $14.4 million , compared to $15.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in management fees was primarily attributable to a decrease of (i) $7.6 million from the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts, which closed during the fourth quarter of 2015, (ii) $4.4 million from the Affiliated Manager as a result of the termination of the infrastructure services agreement with Graticule in May 2016, (iii) $1.6 million from Fortress Partners Funds and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds as a result of a decrease in average AUM due to redemptions and (iv) $0.6 million related to Fortress's transfer of its rights as the general partner and investment manager of the Fortress Convex Asia Funds to a third party in June 2016. Incentive income for three months ended September 30, 2016 was less than $0.1 million, a net decrease of $0.4 million , compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in incentive income was primarily attributable to $0.3 million in incentive income related to the Fortress Convex Asia Funds recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Expenses Expenses were $7.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $13.9 million, compared to $21.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $12.3 million decrease in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses primarily related to an impairment of $10.7 million of certain software and technology-related assets for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and (ii) a $1.4 million and $0.2 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense and profit sharing compensation expense, respectively, primarily due to the closing of the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts during the fourth quarter of 2015 and a decrease in operating results of our liquid hedge fund business for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Earnings from the Affiliated Manager Earnings (losses) from the Affiliated Manager were $2.9 million and $2.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively, related to our interests in the Affiliated Manager which began in January 2015. The increase in earnings was primarily attributable to an increase in incentive income, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment loss was $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $0.4 million, compared to a $2.1 million loss for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment loss decreased primarily due to (i) a $1.4 million net decrease in losses from our investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) a $0.6 million decrease in impairment charges with respect to special investments in our liquid hedge funds. These decreases in losses were partially offset by a $1.5 million decrease in distribution of earnings related to realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. 76 Table of Contents Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 42,622 $ 40,364 $ 2,258 $ 14,677 $ 13,831 $ 846 Incentive Income 382 46 336 318 (65 ) 383 Segment revenues total $ 43,004 $ 40,410 $ 2,594 $ 14,995 $ 13,766 $ 1,229 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 4,828 $ (1,595 ) $ 6,423 $ 1,944 $ (5 ) $ 1,949 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) increased by $6.4 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $42.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $2.3 million , compared to $40.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees is primarily attributed to an increase in the average management fee rate earned by Logan Circle. Incentive income was $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.3 million , compared to less than $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income is primarily the result of returns exceeding performance thresholds for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 for a certain fund, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $38.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , a decrease of $2.6 million, compared to $41.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $2.1 million decrease in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) a $0.4 million decrease in compensation and benefits expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $0.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $1.2 million, compared to $(0.7) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment income increased primarily as a result of (i) a $0.8 million increase in earnings from our investments in certain Logan Circle funds during the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) $0.5 million in losses on investments sold during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) increased by $1.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $14.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.8 million , compared to $13.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in management fees is primarily attributable to an increase in the average management fee rate earned by Logan Circle. Incentive income (loss) was $0.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net increase of $0.4 million , compared to less than $(0.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase in incentive income is primarily the result of returns exceeding performance thresholds for the three months ended September 30, 2016 for a certain fund, as compared to the prior period. 77 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $13.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , a net decrease of $0.3 million, compared to $13.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . The decrease in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a $0.2 million decrease in compensation and benefits expenses and (ii) a $0.1 million decrease in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , an increase of $0.4 million, compared to $(0.3) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Net investment income increased primarily as a result of losses during the three months ended September 30, 2015 from our investment in a certain Logan Circle fund which liquidated during the second quarter of 2016. Unallocated Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 vs. 2015 2016 2015 $ 2016 2015 $ Pre-tax distributable loss $ (9,962 ) $ (3,355 ) $ (6,607 ) $ (2,725 ) $ (1,512 ) $ (1,213 ) The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $6.6 million primarily due to an increase of (i) $5.9 million in interest expense primarily related to the issuance of a promissory note to a former principal to purchase his Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares and (ii) $0.8 million in foreign currency translation losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable loss increased by $1.2 million primarily due to an increase of $1.7 million in interest expense primarily related to the issuance of a promissory note to a former principal to purchase his Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares, partially offset by a $0.4 million decrease in foreign currency translation losses for the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the prior period. 78 Table of Contents Embedded Gains (Losses) The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of September 30, 2016 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment $ 4,768 $ 4,768 $ N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 67,298 21,719 45,579 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 162,376 5 162,371 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 11,215 295 10,920 N/A Real Assets Fund 1,852 1,852 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 113,705 64,354 49,351 N/A Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Funds) 30,489 13,542 16,962 (15 ) Real Estate Opportunities Funds 12,695 9,507 3,188 N/A MSR Opportunities Funds 2,341 1,893 448 N/A Italian NPL Opportunities Fund 3,924 3,416 508 N/A Other Funds (combined) Private investment #1 272,063 207,348 64,715 N/A Private investment #2 47,272 553 46,719 N/A Permanent capital vehicles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 1,767 78 1,689 N/A Newcastle (NYSE: NCT) 783 60 723 N/A New Residential (NYSE: NRZ) 7,161 413 6,748 N/A New Media (NYSE: NEWM) 1,160 54 1,106 N/A New Senior (NYSE: SNR) 1,995 229 1,766 N/A FTAI (NYSE: FTAI) (D) 5,060 6,283 N/A (1,223 ) Other Hedge fund sidepocket investments 37,885 16,220 21,840 (175 ) Direct investments - Other 67,168 32,470 35,066 (368 ) Total $ 852,977 $ 378,439 $ 476,319 $ (1,781 ) (A) Represents the net asset value ("NAV") of Fortresss investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortresss cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments recorded for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. (D) All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering ("IPO") in May 2015. Excludes the FTAI shares received at IPO as incentive income, with a fair value of $4.3 million as of September 30, 2016 . Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3, "