ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Groups consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as consolidated financial statements or historical consolidated financial statements) included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $55.6 billion in AUM as of March 31, 2013 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of our over 1,500 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, and investment income (loss) from our principal investments. We invest capital in each of our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was strong in the first quarter of 2013 , which led to an improvement in our operating results in comparison with the first quarter of 2012 . In addition, we have continued significant capital raising within our funds and we have continued to improve our financial position. For more information about these topics, please refer to Performance of our Funds, Assets Under Management, and Liquidity and Capital Resources below. As of March 31, 2013 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $15.5 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America, Western Europe and Asia; and (ii) publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, which Fortress refers to as Castles, that invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing rights. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $5.5 billion of AUM. These funds invest globally in fixed income, currency, equity and commodity markets and related derivatives to capitalize on imbalances in the financial markets. In addition, this segment includes an endowment style fund, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers, and direct investments; and a fund that seeks to generate returns by executing a positively convex investment strategy. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $12.7 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity (PE) funds which are comprised of a family of credit opportunities funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of real assets funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in four principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Logan Circle our traditional asset management business, which has approximately $21.9 billion of AUM, provides institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income and growth equity strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. In April 2013, Logan Circle launched a growth equities investment business focused on investing and managing concentrated portfolios of publicly traded U.S. equities. In addition, we treat our principal investments in these funds as a distinct business segment. 46 Table of Contents Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our fund investors). An alternative asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Private equity style funds are typically closed-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may draw or call this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Hedge funds are typically open-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds, and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. In addition, Fortress acquired a traditional asset management business. The traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to incentivize us to earn attractive returns. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors, also known as our assets under management. Earn attractive returns on the investments we make. Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes, and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments : In closed-end funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Redemptions : In open-end funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or redeemed, at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. 47 Table of Contents It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under Assets Under Management. Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under Performance of Our Funds. Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds and private equity funds, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a high water mark for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the net returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the preferred return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in the fund is realized, subject to a clawback. At the termination of such a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or clawed back) to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. 48 Table of Contents Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the funds assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or way which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources, Debt Obligations, and Covenants. We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. 49 Table of Contents Profit sharing simply means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation simply means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of never requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based, are discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned (clawed back) to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Income Statement Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash but has a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued. (This amount is broken out from total compensation in the compensation footnote in our consolidated financial statements.) 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest. 4) Taxes. 50 Table of Contents The primary measure of operating performance used by management is Distributable Earnings, which is further discussed in the Results of Operations Segment Analysis section herein. Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes, and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) Castles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds, (vi) Logan Circle, and (vii) principal investments in those funds, as well as cash that is available to be invested. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of certain general and administrative expenses. Where applicable, portions of the general and administrative expenses have been allocated between the segments. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee) and income tax expense. Management assesses the net performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see Results of Operations Segments Analysis below. Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on the size of our funds, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues both at Fortress and within our funds depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and financial institutions. Strong equity market conditions enable our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments. In addition, strong equity markets make it generally easier for our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds make investments in debt instruments, which are assisted by a strong and liquid debt market. In addition, our funds borrow money to make investments. Our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. Beginning in mid-2007, the equity and debt markets experienced a significant deterioration. The deterioration of the debt markets in the United States was triggered by considerable turbulence in the housing and sub-prime mortgage markets, which negatively affected other fixed income markets. The difficult conditions in the fixed income markets prompted lenders to cease committing to new senior loans and other debt, which, in turn, made it extremely difficult to finance new and pending private equity acquisitions or to refinance existing debt. In particular, the securitization markets have been impaired since that time. As the turbulence in the 51 Table of Contents debt markets continued and its intensity increased, equity market conditions also began to deteriorate as concerns of an economic slowdown began to affect equity valuations. Furthermore, the resulting reduction in the availability of capital caused increased correlation in the values of a wide variety of potential investments, which generally declined substantially. The resulting reduction in liquidity and increase in volatility caused several commercial and investment banks, hedge funds and other financial institutions to reduce the carrying value of a significant amount of their holdings, which further reduced the liquidity of debt and, to a lesser extent, equity instruments. We refer to these conditions, as they existed during this period, as the 2008 Recession. Equity market conditions began to stabilize in the second quarter of 2009, and debt market conditions improved significantly in 2010. As a result, in our private equity business we were able to access the equity markets in the United States and abroad, including, for example, the IPOs of Rail America, Seacube Container Leasing Ltd., Whistler Blackcomb Holdings Inc. and Nationstar Mortgage Holdings Inc. as well as realizations of significant other positions in publicly traded securities of our portfolio companies. The improvement in the debt markets has enabled us and other market participants to begin to refinance existing debt obligations and otherwise obtain debt financing with respect to our existing investments. However, debt and equity market conditions remain volatile and have been adversely affected by various factors, such as the European debt crisis, continuing weakness in the U.S. labor and real estate markets, and unrest in the Middle East. Our hedge funds hold actively traded long and short positions, with frequently changing levels of exposure, in the debt of several European sovereignties. Based on the positions held by our funds at March 31, 2013 , there was not a material risk to the performance of the company upon a default in such debt. However, the investments held by certain of our funds could be material to the individual performance of those funds and, therefore, our reputation. In addition, the potential for defaults on European sovereign debt may have negative impacts on the markets, which could have a material adverse impact on Fortress. The recent market conditions have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets has increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the debt and equity markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of increased liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Conditions during the 2008 Recession resulted in significant declines in the values of our funds' investments. Our credit funds and liquid hedge funds have recovered these losses in aggregate in subsequent periods. Our private equity funds have recovered a substantial majority of these losses, but must satisfy minimum return requirements prior to generating incentive income. This has resulted in a significant reduction in our ability to generate incentive income from our existing traditional private equity funds and, in some cases, the possibility that we will be liable for so-called clawback payments relating to incentive payments previously collected. The returns required are subject to a number of variables, such as: the amount of loss incurred, the amount of outstanding capital in the fund, the amount and timing of future capital draws and distributions, and the rate of preferential return earned by investors. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements included herein for more information. Based on the above described recent improvements in the markets, our board of directors approved a revised dividend policy under which it reinstated a quarterly dividend beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011, which was increased in the fourth quarter of 2012. The decision to pay a dividend, as well as the amount of any dividends paid, is subject to change at the discretion of our board of directors based upon a number of factors, including actual and projected distributable earnings. Conditions during the 2008 Recession have also resulted in what we refer to as the Great Deleveraging. As the financing on existing assets throughout the markets matures over time, it must be refinanced. With the general reduction in the value of assets coupled with the reduction in capital availability described above, a refinancing can often only be achieved at a significantly lower level of leverage, requiring either a contribution of equity or, in many cases, the sale of the assets. These circumstances have resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices. Despite the volatile economic conditions, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as illustrated in the AUM table below. 52 Table of Contents The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. First, the strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on the interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns offered on investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Recent reductions in interest rates, targeted at stimulating economic growth, as well as the reductions in asset values described above, have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. As a result, the amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment sector appears to have stabilized or even slightly increased - and redemption requests appear to have decreased - relative to the conditions experienced during the 2008 Recession. However, certain investors appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid timeframe than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e. private equity style) funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternatives industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As a historical leader in the alternative asset management sector based on the size, diversity and historical performance of our funds, we have been able to attract a significant amount of new capital even during the recent challenging market conditions. As illustrated in Performance of our Funds below, we have generated strong returns across most of our funds, and the performance of our more recent vintage private equity funds has rebounded significantly in recent periods. As a result, as illustrated in Assets Under Management below, we have been able to raise meaningful additional capital in various funds, including newly formed funds. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the post-recession environment, as well as other factors. The strength of the sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: transportation, financial services (particularly loan servicing), leisure and gaming, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate and German residential real estate), and senior living facilities. If any of these industries or sectors were adversely affected by market conditions, sector-specific trends or other factors, in a systemic or uniform manner, it could have a disproportionately negative impact on those funds. For example, if the commercial real estate operating environment in Florida remains challenging or deteriorates further, our fund investments in Flagler Development Group could decline in value and potentially have a material adverse effect on the performance of the funds that are invested in Flagler. Our liquid hedge funds engage in active trading. In the first quarter of 2013, volatile currency markets, led by the weakening in Japanese Yen, and surging global equity markets were favorable to the positions held by our liquid macro strategy hedge funds, which contributed to such funds' strong performance. See Performance of Our Funds. The positive impact of these trends may not continue as these trends may change, or the positions held by the funds may be changed. We believe that unfolding developments in the U.S. residential housing market are generating significant investment opportunities. The U.S. residential market is vast and, in the aftermath of the U.S. financial crisis, the residential mortgage industry is undergoing major structural changes that are transforming the way mortgages are originated, owned and serviced. We believe these changes are creating a compelling set of investment opportunities. In particular, we believe that excess mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) 53 Table of Contents present such an opportunity due to a supply-demand imbalance, attractive pricing, and significant barriers to entry. Newcastle and the MSR Opportunities Funds have recently made significant investments in excess MSRs. Market Considerations Summary While market conditions in the United States and abroad have improved meaningfully over the last several years, it is not clear whether a sustained recovery will occur or, if so, for how long it will last. Many market participants remain concerned about the long-term health of the financial markets and the financial institutions and countries that participate in these markets. If market conditions deteriorate in the future - particularly if there is another failure of one or more major financial institutions, a default or serious deterioration in the financial condition of one or more sovereign nations, or another severe contraction of available debt or equity capital, this development would negatively impact Fortress and our funds. Although disruptions in the markets, with respect to equity prices, interest rates, credit spreads or other market factors, including market liquidity, may adversely affect our existing positions, we believe such disruptions generally present significant new opportunities for investment, particularly in distressed asset classes. Our ability to take advantage of these opportunities will depend on our ability to access debt and equity capital, both at Fortress and within the funds. No assurance can be given that future trends will not be disadvantageous to us, particularly if conditions deteriorate, or if generally improving conditions in our markets reverse. We do not currently know the full extent to which market uncertainty will affect us or the markets in which we operate. If conditions deteriorate, or result in a permanent, fundamental change in the credit markets, we and the funds we manage may experience reduced liquidity, reduced earnings and cash flow, impairment charges, increased margin requirements, as well as challenges in maintaining our reputation, raising additional capital, maintaining compliance with covenants under our debt obligations, obtaining investment financing and making investments on attractive terms. However, to date we have been able to continue raising capital, both through new and existing funds, which helps to increase our AUM and to give us a significant amount of capital available to be invested at a time when we believe attractive returns are available. 54 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity Liquid Hedge Funds Credit Funds (J) Castles Hedge Funds PE Funds (J) Logan Circle Total 2013 AUM December 31, 2012 $ 10,611 $ 3,660 $ 5,060 $ 5,665 $ 7,749 $ 20,685 $ 53,430 Capital raised (A) 764 667 75 1,506 Increase in invested capital 170 390 560 Redemptions (B) (341 ) (46 ) (387 ) SPV distributions (C) RCA distributions (D) (139 ) (139 ) Return of capital distributions (E) (173 ) (964 ) (1,137 ) Adjustment for reset date (F) Crystallized incentive income (G) (65 ) (123 ) (188 ) Net client flows (traditional) 1,153 1,153 Income (loss) and foreign exchange (H) 518 (55 ) 169 188 (134 ) 99 785 AUM March 31, 2013 (I) $ 11,126 $ 4,369 $ 5,490 $ 5,620 $ 7,041 $ 21,937 $ 55,583 (A) Includes offerings of shares by the Castles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to March 31, 2013 . Redemptions are further detailed below. (C) Mainly represents distributions from the Drawbridge Global Macro Fund SPV, which was established to hold the illiquid assets pertaining to investors who gave redemption notices in the fourth quarter of 2008. (D) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts (or RCA) in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (E) For private equity and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. (F) The reset date of certain private equity or credit PE funds is an event determined by the earliest occurrence of (i) the first day following the expiration of the capital commitment period of a fund, (ii) a successor fund or entity draws capital contributions or charges management fees (not applicable to credit PE funds) or (iii) the date on which all unpaid capital obligations have been cancelled. For the period commencing with the initial closing of or contribution to the fund and ending on the last day of the semi-annual or quarterly period ending on or after the reset date, certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the fund's capital commitments and certain funds generate management fees as a percentage of the fund's aggregate capital contributions. Thereafter, such funds generally generate management fees as a percentage of the aggregate capital contributed adjusted for the fair value of each investment that is below the associated investment's contributed capital. (G) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (H) Represents the change in fee-paying NAV resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the fund. (I) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 3 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses thereon. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (J) As of March 31, 2013 , the private equity funds and credit PE funds had approximately $0.8 billion and $5.9 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $1.4 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. In April 2013, Eurocastle completed a restructuring process that resulted in the conversion of its outstanding convertible debt. As part of that restructuring, Fortress entered into an amended management agreement with Eurocastle that reduced the AUM used to compute Eurocastle's management fees from 1.5 billion to 0.3 billion as of April 1, 2013, and also reduced the earnings threshold required for Fortress to earn incentive income from Eurocastle. 55 Table of Contents Redemptions Fortress's liquid hedge funds, other than the Fortress Partners Funds, are subject to varying redemption terms based on investor classes, but generally offer monthly or quarterly redemption terms. Redemption notices generally must be received in the period prior to payment. Certain of Fortress's liquid managed accounts provide for management fees based on a leverage factor (which cannot go below 1.0) that is applied to net asset value, meaning that increasing or decreasing the leverage factor impacts management fees. Investors in these accounts may redeem their capital on a periodic basis similarly to the liquid hedge fund investors, and may also elect on a monthly basis to increase or decrease the leverage factor in their accounts. An election to decrease the leverage factor is treated similarly to a redemption request in the tables set forth below due to its impact on AUM. The Fortress Partners Funds provide for annual redemption terms. Redemption notices must be received at least 180 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2013 redemption notice date is July 5, 2013 for redemptions to be paid in the first quarter of 2014. The credit hedge funds generally provide for annual return of capital terms. Return of capital requests must be received at least 90 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2013 return of capital request notice date is October 3, 2013 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2013. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. In particular, return of capital requests within the flagship credit hedge fund (onshore only) in 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 are being paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or RCA. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee-paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, have been as follows: Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through March 31, 2013 (in thousands): Notice Receipt Period Liquid Hedge Fund Redemption Notices Received Payments Made with Respect to those Notices - Inception to Date Liquid Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices Credit Hedge Fund Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (C) Credit Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices 2013 $ 147,617 $ 2,638 $ 144,979 $ $ $ 2012 1,482,907 1,430,874 52,463 248,402 76,800 186,024 2011 2,382,209 2,291,242 785,831 436,197 445,777 Prior (A) 696,467 (A) $ 197,442 (B) $ 1,328,268 (B) (A) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (B) For liquid hedge funds, reflects $156.0 million to be paid primarily within one quarter and $41.4 million to be paid in the first quarter of 2014 and thereafter. For credit hedge funds, reflects $1,328.3 million in RCAs to be paid as the underlying investments are realized. Excludes any notices received from investors whose status has changed from fee-paying to non-fee-paying subsequent to notice receipt. (C) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 56 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception March 31, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2013 2012 March 31, 2013 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRRs Fund I Nov-99 (A) $ $ 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 (A) 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 Jan-15 1,286 1,288 7.2 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 Jan-15 109 127 1.6 % Fund IV Mar-06 Jan-17 3,042 2,592 3.5 % Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 Jan-17 501 607 (0.4 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 2,796 2,708 (0.5 )% Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 605 570 (8.8 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund Sep-04 Permanent 19.3 % FRID Mar-05 Apr-15 786 458 (2.5 )% FRIC Mar-06 May-16 169 113 (3.6 )% FICO Aug-06 Jan-17 (100.0 )% FHIF Dec-06 Jan-17 1,083 1,067 7.3 % FECI Jun-07 Feb-18 434 446 (1.4 )% WWTAI Jul-11 Jun-24 140 10 (C) MSR Opportunities Fund IA Aug-12 Aug-22 100 (C) MSR Opportunities Fund IB Aug-12 Aug-22 25 (C) Continued on next page. 57 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Three Months Ended Inception March 31, Inception March 31, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2013 2012 to Date (D) 2013 2012 Private Equity - Castles Newcastle Investment Corp. Jun-98 Permanent $ 2,492 $ 1,294 N/A 12.3 % N/A Eurocastle Investment Limited (E) Oct-03 Permanent 1,877 1,916 N/A N/A N/A Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds (A) Jun-02 Redeemable 342 398 8.7 % 3.6 % 5.8 % Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Redeemable 1,699 1,733 7.9 % 3.8 % 6.2 % Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Redeemable 224 54 15.3 % 3.9 % (C) Fortress Commodities Funds Jan-08 Closed May-12 384 (1.4 )% N/A (8.7 )% Fortress Commodities Fund MA1 Ltd Nov-09 Closed Apr-12 89 (4.7 )% N/A (6.6 )% Fortress Partners Fund LP (A) Jul-06 Redeemable 567 666 2.6 % 2.2 % 3.1 % Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP (A) Nov-06 Redeemable 659 663 2.9 % 3.1 % 2.4 % Fortress Asia Macro Funds Mar-11 Redeemable 686 211 12.9 % 2.8 % 5.8 % Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Redeemable 75 (C) (C) N/A Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 3,797 4,040 11.2 % 4.0 % 4.2 % Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,104 937 11.3 % 3.4 % 4.8 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 208 183 12.6 % 3.2 % 5.4 % Worden Fund II Aug-10 PE style redemption 32 18 10.9 % 2.8 % 4.4 % Value Recovery Funds and related assets (G) Non-redeemable 468 802 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 58 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception March 31, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2013 2012 March 31, 2013 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 781 $ 1,225 26.7 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 837 1,122 19.0 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 785 360 (C) FCO Managed Accounts Sep-08 to Jun-10 Oct-21 to Jun-24 863 976 22.9 % (H) FCO Managed Accounts (C) Oct-10 to Jun-12 Apr-22 to Mar-27 522 257 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 186 194 4.3 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 153 157 2.6 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 104 197 8.0 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 16 16 8.9 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 90 102 9.1 % Japan Opportunity Fund Jun-09 Jun-19 519 889 20.4 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 713 75 (C) Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 781 18 (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Feb-20 79 66 16.1 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 286 325 (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 210 184 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 18 16 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 75 58 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 17 14 (C) Subtotal - all funds 32,341 29,625 Managed accounts 1,305 723 Total - Alternative Investments 33,646 30,348 Logan Circle 21,937 16,084 Total (I) $ 55,583 $ 46,432 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund I and Fund II have passed their contractual maturity dates and are in the process of an orderly wind down. The Castles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds and the Fortress Partners Funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, a substantial portion of the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying assets are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents (PE style redemption). The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 84% of our alternative investment AUM as of March 31, 2013 . See "- Assets Under Management" above for a discussion of a potential change to Eurocastle Investment Limited's AUM. (B) Represents the following: For private equity funds and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. For Castles, returns represent the return on invested equity (ROE). ROE is not reported on an inception to date basis. Newcastle's 2012 ROE is not meaningful because Newcastle had minimal average book equity. For liquid and credit hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a new issue eligible, single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. (C) These funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. 59 Table of Contents (D) For liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. (E) Interim returns for Eurocastle Investment Limited are only reported on a semi-annual basis at June 30 of each calendar year. (F) The returns for the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds reflect the performance of each fund excluding the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) Fortress began managing the third party originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) Accounts which fall within the description of Note (C) above for certain of the periods presented are excluded from the computations of returns for those periods. (I) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages NIH, FPRF and Mortgage Opportunities Funds I and II. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any fee paying assets under management at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II and GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund had zero AUM as of March 31, 2013 and 2012 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 60 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see Segment Analysis below. Three Months Ended March 31, Variance 2013 2012 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 143,602 $ 106,295 $ 37,307 Management fees: non-affiliates 14,815 11,389 3,426 Incentive income: affiliates 31,357 8,802 22,555 Incentive income: non-affiliates 1,429 307 1,122 Expense reimbursements primarily from affiliates 50,568 43,602 6,966 Other revenues 2,584 1,263 1,321 244,355 171,658 72,697 Expenses Interest expense 2,295 4,367 (2,072 ) Compensation and benefits 181,079 183,379 (2,300 ) General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 37,237 33,144 4,093 220,611 220,890 (279 ) Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) 41,275 24,622 16,653 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (7,739 ) (6,935 ) (804 ) Earnings (losses) from equity method investees 36,302 35,240 1,062 69,838 52,927 16,911 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 93,582 3,695 89,887 Income tax benefit (expense) (26,276 ) (27,842 ) 1,566 Net Income (Loss) $ 67,306 $ (24,147 ) $ 91,453 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries $ 52,977 $ 5,393 $ 47,584 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders $ 14,329 $ (29,540 ) $ 43,869 Factors Affecting Our Business During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that have affected our business and materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. Each of these factors is described below. Average Fee Paying AUM Average fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital for the Castles, or (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle). 61 Table of Contents Average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows: Private Equity Credit Liquid Hedge Hedge Three Months Ended Funds Castles Funds Funds PE Funds Logan Circle Total March 31, 2013 $ 10,869 $ 4,014 $ 5,275 $ 5,643 $ 7,395 $ 21,311 $ 54,507 March 31, 2012 $ 9,658 $ 3,196 $ 5,178 $ 5,984 $ 6,255 $ 14,804 $ 45,075 We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. In July 2012, Fortress formed a consolidated senior living property management subsidiary and has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by Newcastle. For these services, Fortress will receive management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of profits (or in some cases taxable income) earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant PE style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Expansion of our investment platform historically required increases in headcount, consisting of newly hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house the increasing number of employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount changed from 952 asset management employees as of March 31, 2012 , to 993 asset management employees as of March 31, 2013 . Additionally, we have 976 employees at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities). Revenues Three months ended March 31 Total revenues were $244.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $72.7 million, compared to $171.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The increase in revenues was attributable to (i) increases of $37.3 million and $3.4 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, (ii) increases of $22.6 million and $1.1 million in incentive income from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, (iii) an increase of $7.0 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates, and (iv) an increase of $1.3 million in other revenues. 62 Table of Contents The increase in management fees from affiliates of $37.3 million was primarily due to increases in average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, in our private equity funds, Castles, and credit PE funds of $1.2 billion, $0.8 billion, and $1.1 billion, respectively, and an increase of $26.4 million in management fees due to Newcastle options granted to Fortress during the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in management fees from non-affiliates of $3.4 million was primarily related to an increase in average fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $0.5 billion and $6.5 billion in our liquid hedge fund managed accounts and Logan Circle, respectively. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $1.3 million in management fees from non-affiliates due to certain investments within Castles concluding in the first quarter of 2012. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $22.6 million was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $8.6 million of incentive income from our credit PE funds, related to designated tax distributions which are no longer subject to clawback, (ii) an increase of $2.9 million in incentive income primarily earned from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds as a result of an increase in incentive earned on distributions from redeeming capital accounts (RCA), which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and receive payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (iii) an increase of $10.5 million of incentive income recognized from Fund II as a result of a realization event and the fund reaching its maturity date during the three months ended March 31, 2013 , which resulted in the recognition of income as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved. The $1.1 million increase in incentive income from non-affiliates was primarily related to crystallized incentive income from our liquid managed accounts. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $7.0 million is primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our funds, the most significant of which related to our senior living property manager, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior comparative period. The $1.3 million increase in other revenues was primarily related to an increase in servicing fees. Expenses Three months ended March 31 Expenses were $220.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net decrease of $0.3 million, compared to $220.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The decrease was attributable to decreases of (i) $2.1 million in interest expense, (ii) $2.3 million in compensation and benefits, and (iii) $0.2 million in depreciation and amortization. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $4.3 million in general, administrative and other expenses. The decrease in interest expense of $2.1 million primarily relates to a decrease in the average outstanding debt balance and average interest rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the prior period. Total compensation and benefits decreased primarily due to a $51.4 million decrease in equity-based compensation, partially offset by (i) a $37.6 million increase in profit-sharing expenses related to our credit PE funds, credit hedge funds, liquid hedge funds, Principal Performance Payments, and Castles, (ii) an $8.7 million increase in other payroll, taxes, and benefits, and (iii) a $2.8 million increase in discretionary bonus accruals. The $51.4 million decrease in equity-based compensation was primarily due to the full vesting of 8.0 million existing RSUs and 10.3 million existing RPUs in January 2013. Changes in profit sharing expense are a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods. The $8.7 million increase in other payroll, taxes and benefits was the result of an increase in headcount and the formation of a senior living property management business in July 2012. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to (i) $2.3 million of placement fees related to a private equity fund, (ii) an increase in professional fees of $0.8 million, and (iii) an increase of $0.7 million in other general and administrative expenses. Current and Future Compensation Expense We seek to compensate our employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation, and retention within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. 63 Table of Contents Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our non-vested equity-based awards outstanding as of March 31, 2013 of $57.8 million with a weighted average recognition period of 2.5 years. Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses, and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income. Liquid and credit hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund net management fees (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by segment in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. We note the following with respect to profit-sharing expense: Within our hedge funds, profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with key traders / investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. From time to time, senior management engages a compensation consultant to provide management with surveys to help us understand how the compensation we offer to our employees compares to the compensation our peers offer to their employees. Other Income (Loss) Three months ended March 31 Other Income (Loss) was $69.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $16.9 million, compared to $52.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . This increase was primarily attributable to (i) a significant increase in gains associated with increases in net unrealized gains primarily related to our direct investments in Newcastle options and Eurocastle convertible debt and (ii) better performance resulting in an increase in earnings from equity method investees with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, and liquid hedge funds, partially offset by a decrease in earnings from credit hedge and credit PE funds for the three months ended March 31, 2013 relative to the prior comparative period. These increases were partially offset by an increase in the expense associated with the tax receivable agreement liability. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Three months ended March 31 Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , Fortress recognized income tax expense (benefit) of $26.3 million and $27.8 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in annual taxable income and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods), (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure, and (iii) the tax impact of RSUs and RPUs that vested and were delivered at a value substantially less than their original value. 64 Table of Contents Factors that impacted the period-over-period change in income tax expense (benefit) are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ 15,049 Change in foreign and state income taxes 1,520 Change in mix of business (B) (3,294 ) Change in deferred tax asset-impact of equity compensation vesting (C) (3,251 ) Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (11,596 ) Other 6 Total change (D) $ (1,566 ) (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are caused by changes in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) From the first three months of 2012 to the first three months of 2013, a lesser proportion of our total income was subject to corporate tax. In 2013, we generated more unrealized gains and certain other income, which income is passed directly to shareholders, increasing the proportion of our total income which was not subject to corporate tax and thereby reducing the proportion which was subject to corporate income tax. (C) This factor changes based on the amount of equity-based compensation delivered in a given year. (D) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries Three Months Ended March 31 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries increased from $5.4 million to $53.0 million , an increase of $47.6 million , primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $54.5 million resulting from a $90.3 million increase in Fortress Operating Group consolidated net income during the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2012 , (ii) a decrease of $7.3 million resulting from the dilution of noncontrolling interests in Fortress Operating Group caused by the delivery of restricted stock and restricted partnership awards, and (iii) an increase of $0.4 million resulting from Others interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group. Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) Castles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds, (vi) Logan Circle and (vii) principal investments in these funds as well as cash that is available to be invested. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and one senior employee) and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements Segment Reporting. Furthermore, a complete discussion of distributable earnings basis impairment and reserves, including the methodology used in estimating the amounts as well as the amounts incurred in the relevant periods, is disclosed therein. Distributable earnings for the existing Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: 65 Table of Contents Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote by Fortress's chief operating decision maker as described below (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were payable on a quarterly basis, minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain principal investments and certain other interests that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, primarily dividends, from these funds, minus (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, minus (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on stock options held in the Castles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the Castles, (iii) adding (a) proceeds from the sale of shares received pursuant to the exercise of stock options in certain of the Castles, in excess of their strike price, minus (b) management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of these options, Expenses (iv) adding or subtracting, as necessary, the employee profit sharing in incentive income described in (i) above to match the timing of the expense with the revenue, (v) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including Castle options assigned to employees, RSUs and RPUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense), and restricted shares), (vi) adding or subtracting, as necessary, any changes in the fair value of contingent consideration payable with respect to the acquisition of a business, to the extent management intends to pay it in equity and it is recorded on the statement of operations under GAAP, (vii) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (viii) adding back compensation expense recorded in connection with the forfeiture arrangements entered into among the principals, which expired in December 2011, (ix) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units, and (x) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (Note 5). 66 Table of Contents Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 32,888 $ 29,658 $ 3,230 Incentive Income 2,783 4,695 (1,912 ) Segment revenues total $ 35,671 $ 34,353 $ 1,318 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 21,563 $ 22,294 $ (731 ) Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $0.7 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $32.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $3.2 million, compared to $29.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees increased by $3.2 million due to (i) a net increase of $2.3 million in management fees primarily from Fund IV, Fund V and FRID as a result of an increase in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital in prior periods, which impacted the computation of fees for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , (ii) an increase of $0.5 million in management fees from the MSR Opportunities Funds which called initial capital in January 2013 and (iii) an increase of $0.4 million in management fees from WWTAI due to an increase in investor commitments and net capital inflows. Incentive income was $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net decrease of $1.9 million, compared to $4.7 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Incentive income decreased by $1.9 million primarily as a result of a reversal of $2.8 million and $3.6 million of previously recognized reserves for the potential clawback of incentive income from Fund II during the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the recognition of $1.1 million in incentive income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 as a result of a realization event that occurred in Fund I. Expenses Expenses were $14.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $2.0 million, compared to $12.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The net increase of $2.0 million in expenses was primarily attributable to a net increase of $2.5 million in general and administrative and allocable expenses, primarily related to placement fees associated with capital raises, and a net increase of $0.2 million in compensation and benefits expense. These increases were partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in profit sharing compensation expenses primarily related to the decrease in the amount of reversal of the Fund II clawback reserve for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to prior comparative period as mentioned above. Publicly Traded Alternative Investment Vehicles (Castles) The following table presents our results of operations for our Castles segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 17,832 $ 14,576 $ 3,256 Incentive Income Segment revenues total $ 17,832 $ 14,576 $ 3,256 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 10,442 $ 6,811 $ 3,631 67 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $3.6 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $17.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $3.2 million, compared to $14.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees increased by $3.2 million primarily as a result of a $3.8 million increase due to an increase in Newcastle AUM resulting from their equity raises in the second and third quarters of 2012 and the first quarter of 2013, and a $0.9 million increase in property management fees for the three months ended March 31, 2013 related to the senior living property management business which launched in July 2012. These increases were partially offset by a $1.5 million decrease in management fees due to certain investments within Castles concluding in the first quarter of 2012, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Expenses Expenses were $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net decrease of $0.4 million, compared to $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The decrease of $0.4 million in expenses were primarily attributable to a $0.5 million net decrease in compensation and benefits expense primarily due to a decrease in the average headcount for Eurocastle and a $0.5 million decrease in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.6 million net increase in general and administrative expenses and allocable expenses. Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 23,023 $ 20,167 $ 2,856 Incentive Income 32,252 6,292 25,960 Segment revenues - total $ 55,275 $ 26,459 $ 28,816 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 24,632 $ 4,291 $ 20,341 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $20.3 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $23.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $2.8 million, compared to $20.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees increased by $2.8 million primarily due to net increases of $2.9 million and $2.7 million in management fees from the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), respectively, primarily as a result of an increase in net capital inflows and positive performance. These increases were partially offset by a $2.5 million decrease in management fees due to closing of the Fortress Commodities Funds (including related managed accounts) in the second quarter of 2012, and $0.3 million and $0.2 million net decreases in management fees from the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds and Fortress Partners Funds, respectively, primarily as a result of net capital outflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $32.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , an increase of $26.0 million, compared to $6.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Incentive income increased by $26.0 million primarily due to an increase of $22.6 million in the incentive income generated by the Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) as a result of a higher proportion of capital being eligible for incentive income as substantially all capital met or exceeded its high water mark in 2013 and generated subsequent positive performance. The increase in incentive income was also due to increases of $2.5 million and $0.8 million in the incentive income generated by the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Drawbridge Global Macro Funds, respectively, primarily due to all capital remaining above their high water mark in 2013 and positive performance for the three months ended March 31, 2013 . 68 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $30.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $8.5 million, compared to $22.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The increase of $8.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $6.7 million in profit sharing compensation expense, (ii) an increase of $2.3 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments, and (iii) an increase of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits expense. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of $1.1 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 24,561 $ 25,630 $ (1,069 ) Incentive Income 33,157 30,242 2,915 Segment revenues - total $ 57,718 $ 55,872 $ 1,846 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 21,295 $ 23,226 $ (1,931 ) Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $1.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $24.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net decrease of $1.0 million, compared to $25.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees decreased by $1.0 million primarily due to a $0.7 million decrease in management fees from the Value Recovery Funds and related assets primarily as a result of certain asset structures within the Value Recovery Funds terminating in the third quarter of 2012, and a $0.5 million net decrease in management fees from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds as a result of net capital outflows due to redemptions and RCA distributions. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.1 million in management fees from the Worden Funds as a result of net capital inflows. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $33.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $3.0 million, compared to $30.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Incentive income increased by $3.0 million primarily due to a net increase of $4.0 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds primarily due to RCA distributions during the three months ended March 31, 2013. This increase was partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in incentive income generated by the Worden Funds primarily due to lower returns as compared to the prior comparative period and a $0.3 million decrease in incentive income from other investments. Expenses Expenses were $36.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $3.8 million, compared to $32.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The increase of $3.8 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $3.6 million in profit sharing compensation expense, (ii) an increase of $2.1 million in compensation and benefits expense, and (iii) an increase of $1.1 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $3.1 million in general and administrative expenses and allocable expenses. 69 Table of Contents Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 25,191 $ 21,878 $ 3,313 Incentive Income 47,403 11,234 36,169 Segment revenues - total $ 72,594 $ 33,112 $ 39,482 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 20,399 $ 2,675 $ 17,724 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $17.7 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $25.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $3.3 million, compared to $21.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees increased by $3.3 million primarily due to a $7.8 million net increase in management fees primarily due to net capital calls or additional commitments made after the first quarter of 2012, most notably in Japan Opportunity Fund II, Credit Opportunities Fund III and FCO Managed Accounts. These increases in management fees were partially offset by (i) a $2.8 million decrease in management fees primarily in Fortress Credit Opportunities Fund I and Fortress Credit Opportunities Fund II attributable to net capital distributions, and (ii) a $1.5 million decrease in management fees in Japan Opportunity Fund due to expiration of its capital commitment period in June 2012. Incentive income was $47.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $36.2 million, compared to $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Incentive income increased by $36.2 million primarily due to an increase of $36.6 million in incentive income generated primarily by the Credit Opportunities Funds and FCO Managed Accounts as a result an increase in distributions generated by realizations events, and a net increase of $0.7 million in incentive income generated by the Japan Opportunity Funds. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $0.6 million and $0.5 million in incentive income generated by the Real Assets Funds and Long Dated Value Funds, respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the prior comparative period. Expenses Expenses were $52.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $21.8 million, compared to $30.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The increase of $21.8 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $17.0 million in profit sharing compensation expense, (ii) an increase of $6.1 million in general and administrative expenses and allocable expenses, and (iii) an increase of $0.6 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These increases were partially offset by a $1.9 million decrease in compensation and benefits expense. Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 8,422 $ 5,650 $ 2,772 Incentive Income Segment revenues - total $ 8,422 $ 5,650 $ 2,772 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (1,049 ) $ (2,518 ) $ 1,469 70 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable loss decreased by $1.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $8.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $2.7 million, compared to $5.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . Management fees increased $2.7 million due to an increase in AUM as a result of net client inflows and positive performance. Expenses Expenses were $9.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , a net increase of $1.3 million, compared to $8.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2012 . The increase of $1.3 million in expenses was primarily attributable to a net increase of $0.7 million in compensation and benefits expense, and a net increase of $0.6 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses as a result of an increase in average headcount within Logan Circle during the three months ending March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior comparative period. Principal Investments The following table presents our results of operations for our principal investments segment: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 vs. 2012 2013 2012 $ Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ 3,210 $ 904 $ 2,306 Three months ended March 31 Pre-tax distributable income increased by $2.3 million primarily due to: a $1.6 million increase in net investment income from realizations and the performance of our investments in our funds. The $1.6 million net increase in investment income was due to a net increase of $3.0 million in distributions from realization events in our credit PE funds, private equity funds, and special investments in our hedge funds, partially offset by a net decrease of $1.4 million attributable to our investments in our hedge funds for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior comparative period; a $0.1 million decrease in net investment income primarily as a result of an increase in recorded impairments with respect to our special investments in our hedge funds for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior comparative period; a $2.0 million increase in net investment income due to a decrease in interest expense primarily as a result of a decrease in the average debt balance and average interest rate for the three months ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the prior comparable period; a $0.2 million increase in net investment income primarily due to the receipt of dividend income earned from a private investment for the three months ended March 31, 2013 and an increase in dividend income from our direct investment in Newcastle common stock for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the prior comparative period; and a $1.6 million decrease in net investment income due to our foreign currency hedges and foreign currency translation adjustments. 71 Table of Contents The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of March 31, 2013 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund I $ 37 $ $ 37 N/A Fund II 1,596 1,596 N/A Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment 14,183 3,530 10,653 N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 139,452 61,875 77,577 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 156,573 70,697 85,876 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 19,171 13,196 5,975 N/A Real Assets Funds 21,105 8,261 12,844 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 71,210 37,860 33,350 N/A Mortgage Opportunities Funds 4,877 4,877 N/A Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Fund) 13,080 10,202 2,878 N/A WWTAI 2,940 2,815 125 N/A Real Estate Opportunities Funds 2,169 2,000 169 N/A MSR Opportunities Funds 22 22 N/A Other Funds (combined) GAGFAH (XETRA: GFJ) 11,241 2,880 8,361 N/A Brookdale (NYSE: BKD) 36,302 8,136 28,166 N/A Private investment #1 262,149 207,357 54,792 N/A Private investment #2 106,210 44,770 61,440 N/A Castles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 3,755 77 3,678 N/A Newcastle (NYSE: NCT) 11,584 667 10,917 N/A Other Hedge fund side pocket investments 108,370 70,437 39,788 (1,855 ) Direct investments 138,486 71,991 67,181 (686 ) Total $ 1,124,512 $ 616,773 $ 510,280 $ (2,541 ) (A) Represents the net asset value (NAV) of Fortresss investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortresss cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments taken for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3,