ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (tables in thousands except as otherwise indicated and per share data) The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Fortress Investment Groups consolidated financial statements and the related notes (referred to as consolidated financial statements or historical consolidated financial statements) included within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results and the timing of events may differ significantly from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those included in Part II, Item 1A, Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our Business Fortress is a leading, highly diversified global investment management firm with approximately $74.3 billion in AUM as of September 30, 2015 . Fortress applies its deep experience and specialized expertise across a range of investment strategies private equity, credit, liquid markets and traditional fixed income on behalf of over 1,800 institutional clients and private investors worldwide. We earn management fees based on the amount of capital we manage, incentive income based on the performance of our alternative investment funds, and investment income (loss) from our investments in our funds. We continue to invest capital in our alternative investment businesses. The performance of our funds was mixed in the first nine months of 2015 , with strong performances in some funds and weakness in others, and overall our net income decreased in comparison to the first nine months of 2014 . We have continued capital raising within our funds totaling $8.8 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . For more information about these topics, please refer to Performance of our Funds, Assets Under Management, and Liquidity and Capital Resources below. As of September 30, 2015 , we managed the following businesses: Private Equity a business that manages approximately $16.1 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) general buyout and sector-specific funds focused on control-oriented investments in cash flow generating assets and asset-based businesses in North America and Western Europe; and (ii) permanent capital vehicles, which includes publicly traded companies that are externally managed by Fortress pursuant to management agreements and a senior living property management business. The publicly traded companies invest in a wide variety of real estate related assets, including securities, loans, real estate properties and mortgage servicing related assets, media assets, senior living properties and transportation and infrastructure assets. All of the capital of Worldwide Transportation and Infrastructure Investors ("WWTAI"), a private fund managed by Fortress, was contributed to Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC ("FTAI") which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. Liquid Hedge Funds a business that manages approximately $7.4 billion of AUM and includes $4.5 billion of AUM relating to Graticule Asset Management ("Graticule") on the affiliated manager platform ("Affiliated Managers") as a result of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts transition on January 5, 2015. Fortress also receives additional fees for providing infrastructure services (technology, back office, and related services) to Graticule. During the second quarter of 2015, Graticule notified Fortress of its intention to terminate the infrastructure services agreement effective at the end of May 2016. Fortress will continue to earn fees for providing services to Graticule through the effective date of the termination. The liquid hedge funds invest globally in fixed income, currency, equity and commodity markets and related derivatives to capitalize on imbalances in the financial markets. In addition, this segment includes an endowment style fund, which invests in Fortress Funds, funds managed by external managers, and direct investments; a fund that primarily focuses on an international "event driven" investment strategy, particularly in Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America; and a fund that seeks to generate returns by executing a positively convex investment strategy. On October 13, 2015, Fortress announced that it will close the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts. Fortress expects to return most capital to investors by the end of 2015. Michael Novogratz, a principal, officer and director of Fortress, is expected to retire at the end of 2015 and Fortress announced that it has agreed to purchase 56.8 million Fortress Operating Group units and corresponding Class B shares at $4.50 per share, or an aggregate amount of $255.7 million . In connection with this purchase, it is anticipated that Fortress will pay $100.0 million of cash in November 2015 and issue an $155.7 million promissory note. In addition, Fortress expects to enter into a consent and waiver with lenders under its credit agreement for their consent to this transaction. The Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts had assets under management of $1,790.8 million as of September 30, 2015 . 54 During 2015, Fortress determined that certain software and technology-related assets which were used in its liquid hedge funds business had not met certain growth and performance targets and performed an asset impairment test. As a result of this test, $18.2 million of assets were written off and included in Depreciation and Amortization for the nine months ended September 30, 2015. Credit Funds a business that manages approximately $17.4 billion of AUM comprised of two business segments: (i) credit hedge funds which make highly diversified investments in direct lending, corporate debt and securities, portfolios and orphaned assets, real estate and structured finance on a global basis and throughout the capital structure, with a value orientation, as well as non-Fortress originated funds for which Fortress has been retained as manager or co-manager as part of an advisory business; and (ii) credit private equity (PE) funds which are comprised of a family of credit opportunities funds focused on investing in distressed and undervalued assets, a family of ''long dated value'' funds focused on investing in undervalued assets with limited current cash flows and long investment horizons, a family of real assets funds focused on investing in tangible and intangible assets in four principal categories (real estate, capital assets, natural resources and intellectual property), a family of Asia funds, including Japan real estate funds and an Asian investor based global opportunities fund, and a family of real estate opportunities funds, as well as certain sector-specific funds with narrower investment mandates tailored for the applicable sector. Logan Circle our traditional asset management business, which has approximately $33.4 billion of AUM, provides institutional clients actively managed investment solutions across a broad spectrum of fixed income strategies. Logan Circle's core fixed income products cover the breadth of the maturity and risk spectrums, including short, intermediate and long duration, core/core plus, investment grade credit, high yield and emerging market debt. Understanding the Asset Management Business As an asset manager we perform a service we use our investment expertise to make investments on behalf of other parties (our fund investors). An alternative asset manager is simply an asset manager that focuses on certain investment methodologies, typically hedge funds and private equity style funds as described below. Our private equity business also manages permanent capital vehicles, also described below. In addition, our liquid hedge fund business includes the Affiliated Managers. Private equity style funds are typically closed-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to make capital commitments to a fund. Fund investors commit a certain amount of capital when the fund is formed. We may draw or call this capital from the fund investors as the fund makes investments. Capital is returned to fund investors as investments are realized. The fund has a set termination date and we must use an investment strategy that permits the fund to realize all of the investments it makes in the fund within that period. Fund investors may not withdraw or redeem capital, barring certain extraordinary circumstances, and additional fund investors are not permitted to join the fund once it is fully formed. Typically, private equity style funds make longer-term, less liquid (i.e. less readily convertible to cash) investments. Publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are publicly traded entities which are externally managed by us. "Externally managed" means that their senior management is typically employed by us and that they rely on us for their decision making. In exchange, we receive management fees, incentive income and, when we assist these entities in raising equity capital, options to purchase their common stock. "Publicly traded" means that their equity, in the form of common stock, is typically traded on a major public stock exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, their equity investors (stockholders) may trade in and out of their positions, but Fortress continues to earn management fees and incentive income regardless of any turnover in ownership. These entities have indefinite lives and typically pay dividends or distributions to their stockholders only from earnings, while capital is reinvested. Hedge funds are typically open-end funds, which means they work as follows. We solicit fund investors to invest capital at the fund formation and invest this capital as it is received. Additional fund investors are permitted to join the fund on a periodic basis. Fund investors are generally permitted to redeem their capital on a periodic basis. The fund has an indefinite life, meaning that it continues for an indeterminate period as long as it retains fund investors. Typically, hedge funds make short-term, liquid investments. Our credit hedge funds share certain characteristics of both private equity and hedge funds, and generally make investments that are relatively illiquid in nature. Our Affiliated Managers are hedge funds managed by autonomous businesses in which we have a minority interest. Our credit hedge funds include the Mount Kellett Funds of which Fortress is co-manager. In addition, Fortress has a traditional asset management business. The traditional asset management business works similarly to the hedge fund business, except that generally there is no provision for incentive income and management fee rates are lower. In exchange for our services, we receive remuneration in the form of management fees and incentive income. Management fees are typically based on a fixed annual percentage of the capital we manage for each fund investor, and are intended to compensate us for the time and effort we expend in researching, making, managing and realizing investments. Incentive income is typically based on achieving specified performance criteria, and it is intended to align our interests with those of the fund investors and to 55 incentivize us to earn attractive returns. In addition, we receive expense reimbursements pursuant to our management agreements. For the Affiliated Managers, we receive a percentage of their earnings and fees for providing infrastructure services. We also invest our own capital alongside the fund investors in order to further align our interests and to earn a return on the investments. In addition, Fortress typically receives a number of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles equal to 10% of the number of shares of common stock sold by any such entity when raising equity capital. The options received by Fortress typically have a strike price equal to the market price of the relevant stock on the day of issuance and a ten-year term. If the value of the stock were to increase during the term of the option, the value received by Fortress upon exercise would exceed the strike price paid by Fortress. In order to be successful, we must do a variety of things including, but not limited to, the following: Increase the amount of capital we manage for fund investors and the amount of capital managed by Affiliated Managers, also known as our assets under management, or "AUM;" Earn attractive returns on the investments we make; and Effectively manage our liquidity, including our debt, if any, and expenses. Each of these objectives is discussed below. Assets Under Management Management fee paying assets under management, or AUM, fluctuate based on four primary factors: Capital raising : AUM increases when we receive more capital from our fund investors to manage on their behalf, when the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles raise capital such as in an equity offering or when our Affiliated Managers receive more capital. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on: (a) the amount of capital they wish, or are able, to invest in the types of investments a certain manager or fund makes, and (b) the reputation and track record of the manager and its key investment employees. Realization of private equity investments and return of capital distributions : In closed-end funds, AUM decreases when we return capital to fund investors as investments are realized. Investments are realized when they are sold or otherwise converted to cash by the manager. Similarly, AUM decreases in publicly traded investment vehicles, including the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, when return of capital distributions are made to investors. Redemptions : In open-end funds, AUM decreases after fund investors ask for their capital to be returned, or redeemed, at periodic intervals. Typically, fund investors make this decision based on the same factors they used in making the original investment, which may have changed over time or based on circumstances, as well as on their liquidity needs. Fund performance : AUM increases or decreases in accordance with the performance of fund investments. In addition, from time to time we may enter into transactions to manage or co-manage third party originated funds. It is critical for us to continue to raise capital from fund investors. Without new capital, AUM declines over time as private equity investments are realized and hedge fund investors redeem capital based on their individual needs. Therefore, we strive to maintain a good reputation and a track record of strong performance. We strive to also form and market funds in accordance with investor demand. We disclose the changes in our assets under management below, under Assets Under Management. Performance Performance can be evaluated in a number of ways, including the measures outlined below: Fund returns : Fund returns express the rate of return a fund earns on its investments in the aggregate. They can be compared to the returns of other managers, to returns offered by other investments or to broader indices. They can also be compared to the performance hurdles necessary to generate incentive income. We disclose our fund returns below, under Performance of Our Funds. Proximity to incentive income threshold : This is a measure of a fund's performance relative to the performance criteria it needs to achieve in order for us to earn incentive income. 56 Incentive income is calculated differently for the hedge funds, private equity funds and publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, as described below. We generally earn incentive income from hedge funds based on a straight percentage of the returns of each fund investor, since fund investors may enter the fund at different times. Incentive payments are made periodically, typically annually for the Fortress hedge funds. Once an incentive payment is made, it is not refundable. However, if a particular fund investor suffers a loss on its investment, either from the date of the Fund's inception or since the last incentive payment to the manager, this establishes a high water mark for that investor, meaning a threshold that has to be exceeded in order for us to begin earning incentive income again from that fund investor. Investors in the same fund could have different high water marks, in terms of both percentage return and dollar amount. Since it is impractical to disclose this information on a fund investor-by-investor basis, it may be disclosed based on the following metrics: the percentage of fund investors who have a high water mark, and the aggregate dollar difference between the value of those fund investors' investments and their applicable aggregate high water mark. The investments held by fund investors who do not have a high water mark are eligible to generate incentive income for us on their next dollar earned. We generally earn incentive income from private equity style funds based on a percentage of the returns of the fund, subject to the achievement of a minimum return (the preferred return) to fund investors. Incentive income is generally paid as each investment in a fund is realized, subject to a clawback. At the termination of a fund, a computation is done to determine how much incentive income we should have earned based on the fund's overall performance, and any incentive income payments received by us in excess of the amount we should have earned must be returned by us (or clawed back) to the fund for distribution to fund investors. Certain of our private equity style funds pay incentive income only after all of the fund's invested capital has been returned. We generally earn incentive income from publicly traded permanent capital vehicles based on a percentage of operating results in excess of specified returns to shareholders, generally calculated on a cumulative but not compounding basis. Generally, incentive income is earned quarterly and once incentive is earned, it is not subject to clawback. However, if at a later date the total incentive income received by us is in excess of the cumulative amount calculated as of this later date, we would have to make up that difference in order for us to begin earning incentive income again. 57 Depending on where they are in their life cycle and how they have performed, private equity funds will fall into one of several categories as shown below: PE Style Fund Status Key Disclosures In a liquidation of the funds assets at their estimated fair value as of the reporting date: Has the fund made incentive income payments to us? Would the fund owe us incentive income? Would we owe a clawback of incentive income to the fund? (Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements) Yes Yes No - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. Yes No Yes - The amount of previously distributed incentive income. - The "intrinsic clawback," which is the amount of incentive income that we would have to return to the fund upon a liquidation of its remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date in order to reduce the intrinsic clawback to zero such that we would be in a position to earn additional incentive income from the fund in the future. No Yes N/A - The amount of "undistributed incentive income," which is the amount of incentive income that would be due to us upon a liquidation of the funds remaining assets at their current estimated fair value. No No N/A - The amount by which the total current fund value would have to increase as of the reporting date such that we would be in a position to earn incentive income from the fund in the future. We disclose each of these performance measures, as applicable, for all of our funds in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Liquidity, Debt and Expense Management We may choose to use leverage, or debt, to manage our liquidity or enhance our returns. We strive to achieve a level of debt that is sufficient to cover working capital and investment needs, but not in an amount or manner which causes undue stress on performance, either through required payments or restrictions placed on Fortress. Our liquidity, and our ability to repay our debt, as well as the amount by which our metrics exceed those required under our financial covenants are discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources, Debt Obligations, and Covenants. 58 We must structure our expenses, primarily compensation expense which is our most significant expense, so that key employees are fairly compensated and can be retained, while ensuring that expenses are not fixed in such a way as to endanger our ability to operate in times of lower performance or reduced liquidity. To this end, we generally utilize discretionary bonuses, profit sharing and equity-based compensation as significant components of our compensation plan. Profit sharing means that when profits increase, either of Fortress as a whole or of a specified component (such as a particular fund) of Fortress, employees receive increased compensation. In this way, employees' interests are aligned with Fortress's, employees can receive significant compensation when performance is good, and we are able to reduce expenses when necessary. Equity-based compensation means that employees are paid in equity of Fortress rather than in cash. This form of compensation has the advantage of not requiring a cash expenditure, while aligning employees' interests with those of Fortress. Our liquidity is discussed below, under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our compensation expenses, including profit sharing and equity-based compensation, are discussed in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Our segment operating margin, which we define as the ratio of our fund management distributable earnings to our segment revenues, and which is a measure of our profitability, is discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. Understanding our Financial Statements Balance Sheet Our assets consist primarily of the following: 1) Investments in our funds, recorded generally based on our share of the funds' underlying net asset value, which in turn is based on the estimated fair value of the funds' investments. In addition, we hold options in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles. 2) Cash. 3) Amounts due from our funds for fees and expense reimbursements. 4) Deferred tax assets, which relate to potential future tax benefits. This asset is not tangible - it was not paid for and does not represent a receivable or other claim on assets. Our liabilities consist primarily of the following: 1) Debt owed under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 2) Accrued compensation, generally payable to employees shortly after year-end. 3) Amounts due to our Principals under the tax receivable agreement. These amounts partially offset the deferred tax assets and do not become payable to the Principals until the related future tax benefits are realized. 4) Deferred incentive income, which is incentive income that we have already received in cash but is subject to contingencies and may have to be returned (clawed back) to the respective funds if certain performance hurdles are not met. Management, in considering the liquidity and health of the company, mainly focuses on the following aspects of the consolidated balance sheet: 1) Expected cash flows from funds, including the potential for incentive income. 2) Cash on hand. 3) Collectibility of receivables. 4) Current amounts due under our credit facility or other debt obligations (if any). 5) Other current liabilities, primarily accrued compensation. 6) Financial covenants under our debt obligations. 7) Likelihood of clawback of incentive income. Income Statement Our revenues and other income consist primarily of the following: 1) Fees and expense reimbursements from our funds, including management fees, which are based on the size of the funds, and incentive income, which is based on the funds' performance. 2) Returns on our investments in the funds. 59 Our expenses consist primarily of the following: 1) Employee compensation paid in cash, including profit sharing compensation. 2) Equity-based compensation, which is not paid in cash but has a dilutive effect when it vests because it results in additional shares being issued. (This amount is broken out from total compensation in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.) 3) Other general and administrative expenses and interest expense. 4) Taxes. Essentially, the key components of our income are the fees we are earning from our funds in comparison to the compensation and other corporate expenses we are paying in cash, and the resulting operating margin. Other significant components include (i) the unrealized changes in value of our funds, reported as unrealized gains (losses) and earnings (losses) from equity method investees, as this is indicative of changes in potential future cash flows, (ii) taxes, and (iii) equity-based compensation, because it will eventually have a dilutive effect when the related shares are issued. Managing Business Performance We conduct our management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. See "Results of Operations Segment Analysis" below. The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense incurred with respect to corporate borrowings, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and a former senior employee) and income tax expense. Management assesses the performance of each segment based on its ''distributable earnings.'' Distributable earnings is not a measure of cash generated by operations that is available for distribution. Rather distributable earnings is a supplemental measure of operating performance used by management in analyzing its segment and overall results. Distributable earnings should not be considered as an alternative to cash flow in accordance with GAAP or as a measure of our liquidity, and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs (including dividends and distributions). We believe that the presentation of distributable earnings enhances a reader's understanding of the economic operating performance of our segments. For a more detailed discussion of distributable earnings and how it reconciles to our GAAP net income (loss), see Results of Operations Segment Analysis below. 60 Table of Contents Market Considerations Our revenues consist primarily of (i) management fees based generally on AUM, (ii) incentive income based on the performance of our funds and (iii) investment income from our investments in those funds. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenues - both at Fortress and within our funds - depends on our ability to retain existing investors, attract new capital and investors, secure investment opportunities, obtain financing for transactions, consummate investments and deliver attractive risk-adjusted returns. Our ability to execute our business strategy depends upon a number of market conditions, including: The strength and liquidity of the U.S. and global equity and debt markets and related financial and economic conditions. U.S. and global financial and economic conditions have a substantial impact on the success of our business strategy, including our ability to effect realizations and make new investments. In addition, equity market conditions impact the ability of our private equity funds to increase the value, and effect realizations, of their portfolio company investments and the ability of our funds that invest in equities to generate positive investment returns. The condition of the debt markets also has a meaningful impact on our business. Several of our funds are directly and indirectly exposed to the debt markets: we invest in debt instruments, our funds borrow money to make investments and our funds utilize leverage in order to increase investment returns, which ultimately drive the performance of our funds. Our portfolio companies also require access to financing for their operations and refinancing of their debt. Furthermore, from time to time, we utilize debt to finance our investments in our funds and for working capital purposes. In general, strong financial and economic conditions including equity and debt markets enable us to execute our business strategy and generate attractive returns while dampening distressed investment strategies, and periods of weakening economies and markets and increased volatility can also present opportunities to invest at reduced valuations and in distressed asset classes, while negatively impacting fees, realizations and value creation. For example, a significant decline in the value of our funds investments would require that our funds satisfy minimum return or high water mark requirements before generating incentive income and could subject us to clawback payments relating to incentive income previously collected. For hedge funds, opportunities to generate returns depend on their investment strategies, which may benefit from market declines or volatility. The quarter ended September 30, 2015 was marked by declines and volatility in markets and a deteriorating growth outlook. U.S. stock indexes experienced the largest percentage declines and the most volatility since 2011, reflecting concerns about the pace of growth in China and elsewhere around the globe, as well as uncertainty around when the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates. The slowdown in China, the worlds biggest importer of many raw materials, also negatively impacted commodity prices and global trade. Chinas unexpected decision to devalue and overhaul the Chinese Yuan exchange rate policy was a substantial market catalyst for market volatility and negative risk asset performance, as concerns arose that Chinas devaluation would contribute to potential deflation in the global economy. Overall, global equities declined amid worries about the economic slowdown in China and the implications for global growth, with emerging market equities performing worse than developed markets. U.S., Eurozone, Japan and emerging market equities all declined in the quarter, with China in particular experiencing sharp equity declines. The third quarter of 2015 was, however, broadly positive for global bonds, as commodity price weakness and fears over global economic growth led investors to seek out bonds. Global government bond yields were generally lower in the third quarter. Investment grade corporate bonds generally performed positively, but high yield bonds did not perform as well. Markets continued to focus on the path of U.S. monetary policy and inflation as indicators of the likely direction of global interest rates. Markets were particularly focused this quarter on the prospect for the Federal Reserve to increase interest rates and this will continue to be a focal point. The increase, when it eventually occurs, is expected to be significant given the prolonged period of easing policy and divergence from other global central banks. At its September meeting the Federal Reserve decided to keep interest rates unchanged and delivered a policy outlook message cautionary of any changes. Later in the month, Federal Reserve Chairwoman Janet Yellen argued the case for raising short term interest rates later this year, an argument centered on the belief that unemployed resources in the economy have diminished to the point where inflation pressures should start to build in the coming years. Overall, a September interest rate increase was compromised by volatility in global markets, uncertainty over China, potential global disinflation, a global economic slowdown and increasing global risk. With that in mind, the Federal Reserve is likely to take some extra time to assess whether these global risks will have any material effect on its outlook. While unemployment rates continued to decrease, showing further progress in the labor market, the most vulnerable economic forecast continues to be target inflation. In addition, overall, the U.S. dollar was weaker against most major currencies over the quarter. Given increased global risks, economic forecasts have become even more uncertain, contributing the Federal Reserves standstill. In January 2015, the European Central Bank announced a Federal Reserve-style stimulus plan and committed to a trillion-Euro asset-purchase plan to fight deflation and stimulate growth. This is effectively an open-ended program tied to increasing inflation. The program was larger than the market was expecting, as was the monthly pace, with the European Central Bank expected to purchase 60 billion of assets per month at least through September of 2016. While the Eurozone growth dynamics have improved in recent months, the most recent data suggest the period of growth acceleration is over. There is also additional risk to the Eurozone 61 Table of Contents outlook from weaker emerging markets and China demand for area exports. Greece-related risk subsided in the third quarter, as a resolution was reached with the Prime Minister agreeing to an austerity and reform deal. During the quarter, negative global developments overshadowed encouraging data from the Eurozone, including increased GDP in the second quarter compared to the prior quarter. However, consumer prices in the Eurozone fell on an annual basis in September for the first time since the European Central Bank launched its quantitative easing program earlier this year. The European Central Bank may employ further easing measures in coming months, including potentially extending the asset purchase program beyond September 2016 and/or increasing the pace of purchases, which could be more effective in the near-term. Our hedge funds hold actively-traded long and short positions, with frequently changing levels of exposure, in the debt of several European sovereignties. Based on the positions held by our funds as of September 30, 2015, there was not a material risk to Fortress's performance under typical market stress scenarios. However, the investments held by certain of our funds could be material to the individual performance of such funds and, therefore, our reputation. In Japan, monetary policy remains unchanged and the Bank of Japan is likely to keep its monetary expansion efforts of 80 trillion a year in place for the foreseeable future. The Bank of Japan has continued to soften expectations for additional easing, but many are still anticipating additional measures at the October 30 meeting because of ongoing slow growth in Japan. GDP contracted in the second quarter and inflation was below the Bank of Japans target. However, labor market conditions have remained steady. At its October 30 meeting, the Bank of Japan should have a clearer picture and be in a better position to judge whether the expected rebound in core inflation is underway and whether there have been any wage developments. Japan was among the worst-performing developed stock markets during the third quarter, as there were concerns about slowing economic growth globally and in China, as well as weaker than expected data for the Japanese economy. However, Japanese equity markets continue to benefit from a combination of monetary stimulus and structural reform. The implementation of a new corporate governance standard has put renewed pressure on Japanese companies to employ more shareholder-friendly policies and improve returns going forward, including returning more capital to shareholders. During the quarter, the Japanese Yen strengthened as the currency saw inflows given increasing risks elsewhere. During the quarter, emerging markets equities experienced volatility and declined sharply. Investor uneasiness also detrimentally affected emerging market currencies and debt. With a few exceptions, emerging market countries should remain challenged by slow global growth, especially as important commodity importers like China experience growth deceleration, and by the prospect that the Federal Reserve may raise interest rates eventually. Coping with the shift in these global trends is likely to require significant reform agendas and political leadership, both of which are currently lacking in many emerging market countries and without which they will likely experience significant downturn. Capital flows are now steadily leaving emerging markets and creating tighter financial conditions that threaten economic stability. In August, Chinese monetary authorities devalued the Chinese currency, increasing fears that a perceived slowdown in Chinas growth was worse than anticipated. The central bank responded to the ensuing market volatility by cutting interest rates for the fifth time since last November and by lowering the bank reserve required ratio. Chinas weakness impacted other markets in Asia. Indias stock market was more resilient than that of most emerging market countries, as the governments economic reforms have been viewed positively over the past year and as the economy continues to show signs of an increase in growth while the larger than expected interest rate decrease helped support the market. Latin America was one of the worst performing regions with commodity price declines having a negative impact on several markets and currency weakness across the region amplifying losses. Brazil recorded the steepest decline as the economic outlook deteriorated and the government changed its primary surplus forecast to a deficit, prompting a credit rating downgrade to below investment grade. Turkey also experienced declines, as coalition negotiations following indecisive elections failed, warranting new elections in November. Market conditions over the last several years have impacted our business in several ways: Volatility in the markets since the financial crisis in 2008 increased the importance of maintaining sufficient liquidity without relying upon additional infusions of capital from the equity and debt markets. Based on cash balances, committed financing and short-term operating cash flows, in the judgment of management we have sufficient liquidity in the current market environment. The maintenance of sufficient liquidity may limit our ability to make investments, distributions, or engage in other strategic transactions. Improved economic conditions over the last several years, including relatively low interest rates, have benefited our business in a number of ways, including, but not limited to, a strong financing environment that has enabled our private equity funds and their portfolio companies to secure long-term financing, refinance debt at attractive levels, raise public and private equity capital and improve portfolio company profitability. Improving economic conditions and higher valuations in private equity funds have also contributed to our ability to raise capital for new investment vehicles and realize investments in existing funds. While improved conditions have created a more challenging environment for identifying new investments, we continue to deploy meaningful amounts of new capital. Recent market conditions, however, have negatively affected the terms on which some of our permanent capital vehicles and portfolio companies were able to raise debt and equity capital but positively impacted the environment for making new investments. 62 Table of Contents Following a period of deleveraging, that resulted in significant opportunities for investors with sufficient capital to acquire assets at reduced prices, near-term investment opportunities have become more sporadic in nature given pricing and market dynamics. However, potential opportunities exist, particularly where access to capital is restricted and in Europe where economies may remain uncertain. Despite the uncertain economic recovery, our funds continue to make investments on an opportunistic basis, and we continue to raise new funds as discussed above and illustrated in the AUM table below. The strength of, and competitive dynamics within, the alternative asset management industry, including the amount of capital invested in, and withdrawn from, alternative investments. The strength of the alternative asset management industry, and our competitive strength relative to our peers, are dependent upon several factors, including, among other things, (1) the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options, (2) the amount of capital investors allocate to alternative asset managers, and (3) our performance relative to our competitors and the related impact on our ability to attract new capital. The strength of the alternative asset management industry is dependent upon the investment returns alternative asset managers can provide relative to other investment options. This factor depends, in part, on returns available from traditional investment products, and to a lesser extent on interest rates and credit spreads (which represent the yield demanded on financial instruments by the market in comparison to a benchmark rate, such as the relevant U.S. Treasury rate or LIBOR) available on other investment products. This is because as interest rates rise and/or spreads widen, returns available on such investments would tend to increase and, therefore, become more attractive relative to the returns of investment products offered by alternative asset managers. Solving for funding gaps and historically low interest rates have caused pension plans and other institutional investors to look to alternative investments in order to increase the yield on their investments. As a result, the amount of capital being invested into the alternative investment industry appears to have increased during the first nine months of 2015 and the outlook for the rest of 2015 remains generally positive. However, weaker performance of certain asset classes within the alternative investment industry may temper positivity in the industry. In addition, certain investors appear to have become increasingly focused on the liquidity and redemption terms of alternative investment funds and have expressed a desire to have the ability to redeem or otherwise liquidate their investments in a more rapid time frame than what is permitted under the terms of many existing funds. Investors in long-term, locked-up (i.e., private equity style) funds have engaged in longer, more intensive and detailed due diligence procedures prior to making commitments to invest in such funds, which has led to the general perception across the alternative asset management industry that capital raising for long-term capital will require longer time periods, a greater commitment of capital raising resources and will generally be more difficult overall than it was previously. Moreover, some investors are increasingly shifting to managed accounts with fee structures that are less favorable to us. The factor which most directly impacts our results is our investment performance relative to our competitors, including products offered by other alternative asset managers. As illustrated in - Performance of Our Funds below, we have generated positive returns in some funds and weaker returns in others. As illustrated in - Assets Under Management below, we have been able to raise additional capital in our funds, including permanent capital vehicles. However, our ongoing ability to raise capital for new and existing funds will be a function of investors' assessment of our investment performance relative to that of our competition in the current market environment, as well as other factors. The strength of the industries or sectors in which our funds have concentrated investments. Our private equity funds, as well as certain of our managed accounts and permanent capital vehicles, currently have significant investments in companies whose assets are concentrated in the following industries and sectors: financial services (particularly loan servicing and consumer finance), transportation and infrastructure, gaming, real estate (including Florida commercial real estate), and senior living. The overall performance of our funds may be affected by market conditions and trends related to these industries and sectors. Within the financial services industry, the regulatory pressure on banks in the U.S. after the financial crisis contributed to a positive market for the expansion of non-bank financial institutions. This development has recently led to increased regulatory focus on non-bank financial institutions, resulting in slower growth and increased costs within some of our financial services investments. With respect to mortgage servicing rights, excess mortgage servicing rights and other servicing related investments, the timing, size and potential returns of future investments may be less attractive than prior investments due to a number of factors including interest rates and increased competition. In addition, regulatory and government sponsored entity approval processes have been more extensive and taken longer, which has increased the time and effort required to complete transactions. Worldwide growth in trade and transportation continued to expand albeit at a more modest pace than in the previous years, with growing demand for both cargo and passenger-related transportation infrastructure and equipment. The senior living sector continues to benefit from a favorable consolidation and supply/demand dynamics as well as an appreciation of related real estate values. European markets have presented opportunities for distressed investments in country specific markets such as Italy. In addition, our credit PE funds, from time to time, may have significant investments in particular companies, industries or sectors. The credit PE funds have significant investments in certain sectors including commercial real estate, wireless spectrum and energy. 63 Table of Contents Assets Under Management We measure AUM by reference to the fee paying assets we manage. Our AUM has changed as a result of the factors set forth in the table below (in millions): Private Equity (I) Liquid Hedge Funds (J) Credit (I) Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles Hedge Funds (J) PE Funds Logan Circle Total AUM December 31, 2014 $ 9,366 $ 4,567 $ 8,128 $ 6,173 $ 6,955 $ 32,342 $ 67,531 Capital raised (A) 2,441 305 254 812 3,812 Increase in invested capital 192 287 46 1,630 2,155 Redemptions (B) (1,565 ) (264 ) (1,829 ) RCA distributions (C) (288 ) (288 ) Return of capital distributions (D) (412 ) (110 ) (162 ) (31 ) (1,017 ) (1,732 ) Adjustment for capital reset (E) (168 ) (168 ) Crystallized incentive income (F) (118 ) (118 ) Change in AUM of Affiliated Managers and co-managed funds 949 3,018 3,967 Net client flows (traditional) 1,746 1,746 Income (loss) and foreign exchange (G) 49 (121 ) (288 ) 280 (24 ) (642 ) (746 ) AUM September 30, 2015 (H) $ 9,195 $ 6,896 $ 7,367 $ 9,070 $ 8,356 $ 33,446 $ 74,330 (A) Includes offerings of shares by our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any. (B) Excludes redemptions which reduced AUM subsequent to September 30, 2015 . Redemptions are further detailed below. (C) Represents distributions from (i) assets held within redeeming capital accounts (RCA) in our Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds, which represent accounts where investors have provided withdrawal notices and are subject to payout as underlying fund investments are realized, and (ii) the Value Recovery Funds. (D) For private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds, return of capital distributions are based on realization events. Such distributions include, in the case of private equity funds and credit PE funds that are in their capital commitment periods, recallable capital distributions. For certain hedge funds, represents distributions from special investments to investors who fully redeemed their capital from the fund. For credit hedge funds, return of capital distributions include income distributions from Fortress Japan Income Fund. For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, return of capital distributions represent the portion of dividends paid and categorized as return of capital. (E) In April 2015, Fortress entered into an amended management agreement with Eurocastle. (F) Represents the transfer of value from investors (fee paying) to Fortress (non-fee paying) related to realized hedge fund incentive income. (G) Represents the change in AUM resulting from realized and unrealized changes in the reported value of the funds. For certain private equity funds, also includes the impact of a change in AUM basis from invested capital to fair value for certain portfolio companies which became publicly traded. (H) AUM is presented mainly in reference to Fortress's ability to generate management fees. Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, contained herein, provides further information regarding incentive income, and Note 3 provides further information regarding Fortress's investments in the funds, including gains and losses therein. The percentage of capital invested by Fortress across different funds varies. (I) As of September 30, 2015 , the private equity funds and credit funds had approximately $0.7 billion and $8.1 billion of uncalled and recallable capital, respectively, that will become assets under management if deployed/called, of which an aggregate of $3.0 billion is only available for follow-on investments, management fees and other fund expenses. (J) As of September 30, 2015 , Fortress liquid hedge funds AUM included $4.5 billion related to the Affiliated Managers platform and Fortress credit hedge funds AUM included $3.0 billion related to co-managed funds. Redemptions Fortress's liquid hedge funds, other than the Fortress Partners Funds, are subject to varying redemption terms based on investor classes, but generally offer monthly or quarterly redemption terms. Redemption notices generally must be received in the period prior to payment. Certain of Fortress's liquid hedge funds and related managed accounts provide for management fees based on a leverage factor (which cannot go below 1.0) that is applied to net asset value, meaning that increasing or decreasing the leverage factor impacts management fees. Investors in these accounts may redeem their capital on a periodic basis similarly to the liquid hedge fund investors, and may also elect on a monthly basis to increase or decrease the leverage factor in their accounts. An election to decrease the leverage factor is treated similarly to a redemption request in the tables set forth below due to its impact on AUM. 64 Table of Contents The Fortress Partners Funds provide for annual redemption terms. Redemption notices must be received at least 180 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2015 redemption notice date is July 5, 2015 for redemptions to be paid in the first quarter of 2016. The credit hedge funds generally provide for annual return of capital terms. Return of capital requests must be received at least 90 days prior to a calendar year end, and related payments are made subsequent to year end. For instance, the 2015 return of capital request notice date is October 2, 2015 for capital to be returned after December 31, 2015. Such returns of capital may be paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized, in accordance with the governing terms of the applicable funds. During the period prior to the return of capital for which a return request has been submitted, such amounts continue to be subject to management fees and, as applicable, incentive income. In particular, return of capital requests within the flagship credit hedge fund (onshore only) in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 are being paid over time as the underlying fund investments are realized. In such a case, pending payment, this capital is referred to as a redeeming capital account or RCA. The Mount Kellett Funds which are co-managed by Fortress are not subject to redemptions. In certain cases, redemption notices may be subject to cancellation after receipt and prior to payment. Redemption notices and return of capital requests received from fee paying investors, and related payments which are made in periods after notices are received, are shown in the table below. The table below does not include redemptions related to funds managed by the Affiliated Managers. Redemption Notices / Return of Capital Requests Received and Outstanding through September 30, 2015 (in thousands): Notice Receipt Period Liquid Hedge Fund Redemption Notices Received Payments Made with Respect to those Notices - Inception to Date Liquid Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices Credit Hedge Fund Return of Capital Requests Received Payments Made with Respect to those Requests - Inception to Date (C) Credit Hedge Fund Remaining Outstanding Notices 2015 $ 1,669,606 (D) $ 862,103 $ 807,503 $ 598,725 (D) $ 211,179 $ 387,546 2014 2,160,974 2,160,721 220,185 93,124 134,929 2013 957,414 981,914 157,251 128,760 37,979 Prior (A) 229,143 (A) $ 807,503 (B) $ 789,597 (B) (A) Includes all prior periods with notices / requests that are still outstanding as of period end. (B) For liquid hedge funds, reflects $600.1 million to be paid primarily within one quarter and $207.4 million to be paid in the first quarter of 2016 related to the Fortress Partners Funds. The redemptions to be paid primarily within one quarter includes $424.2 million related to the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts, $68.5 million related to the Convex Asia Funds, $54.8 million related to Fortress Centaurus Global Funds, $31.9 million related to Fortress Redwood Fund Ltd and $20.7 million related to Fortress Macro MA1. For credit hedge funds, reflects $387.5 million to be paid in the first quarter of 2016 and thereafter and $402.1 million in RCAs to be paid as the underlying investments are realized. Excludes any notices received from investors whose status has changed from fee-paying to non-fee-paying. (C) RCA payments are reflected in the AUM rollforward table as RCA distributions rather than as redemptions. (D) In October 2015, Fortress's liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds received $67.2 million and $285.3 million, respectively, of additional redemption requests. On October 13, 2015, Fortress announced that it will close the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts and Fortress expects to return most capital to investors by the end of 2015. We note that performance between the notice / request date and the payment date may result in differences between the amount of redemption notices / return of capital requests received and the ultimate payments. The table above reflects the actual notices / requests received, the actual payments made, and the actual remaining NAV of related investors. Therefore, the aggregate notices / requests received will not equal the total payments made plus the remaining outstanding notices / requests, due primarily to post-notice performance and redemption cancellations. 65 Table of Contents Performance of Our Funds The performance of our funds has been as follows (dollars in millions): AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2015 2014 September 30, 2015 Private Equity Private Equity Funds that Report IRRs Fund I Nov-99 Closed May-13 N/A N/A 25.7 % Fund II Jul-02 In Liquidation 35.5 % Fund III Sep-04 In Liquidation 763 763 1.6 % Fund III Coinvestment Nov-04 In Liquidation 40 41 1.2 % Fund IV Mar-06 Jan-17 1,612 2,322 (0.9 )% Fund IV Coinvestment Apr-06 Jan-17 315 348 (1.9 )% Fund V May-07 Feb-18 4,499 4,263 7.0 % Fund V Coinvestment Jul-07 Feb-18 425 491 (5.3 )% GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH) Sep-04 Closed Dec-14 N/A 19.4 % FRID (GAGFAH) Mar-05 Closed Nov-14 N/A (0.3 )% FRIC (Brookdale) Mar-06 Closed Dec-14 N/A (1.6 )% FICO (Intrawest) Aug-06 Jan-17 (100.0 )% FHIF (Holiday) Dec-06 Jan-17 583 771 4.6 % FECI (Florida East Coast Railway/Florida East Coast Industries) Jun-07 Feb-18 422 436 (0.4 )% MSR Opportunities Fund I A Aug-12 Aug-22 177 228 14.4 % MSR Opportunities Fund I B Aug-12 Aug-22 45 57 14.3 % MSR Opportunities Fund II A Jul-13 Jul-23 133 45 13.2 % MSR Opportunities Fund II B Jul-13 Jul-23 2 1 12.5 % MSR Opportunities MA I Jul-13 Jul-23 31 10 13.3 % Italian NPL Opportunities Fund Dec-13 Sep-24 20 11 (C) Fortress Equity Partners Mar-14 Mar-24 128 (C) Continued on next page. 66 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Nine Months Ended Inception September 30, Inception September 30, Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2015 2014 to Date (D) 2015 2014 Publicly Traded Permanent Capital Vehicles Newcastle Investment Corp. Jun-98 Permanent $ 680 $ 1,579 N/A 10.9 % 9.5 % New Residential Investment Corp. May-13 Permanent 2,689 1,366 N/A 14.0 % 12.0 % Eurocastle Investment Limited Oct-03 Permanent 605 510 N/A 6.8 % 7.5 % New Media Investment Group Inc. Feb-14 Permanent 637 505 N/A 8.5 % 6.5 % New Senior Investment Group Inc. Nov-14 Permanent 1,089 N/A N/A 9.9 % N/A Fortress Transportation and Infrastructure Investors LLC (E) May-15 Permanent 1,196 451 N/A 10.3 % N/A Liquid Hedge Funds Drawbridge Global Macro Funds (A) Jun-02 Redeemable 193 223 6.0 % (18.1 )% (5.4 )% Fortress Macro Funds May-09 Redeemable 564 1,537 2.9 % (17.5 )% (4.9 )% Fortress Macro MA1 Nov-11 Redeemable 185 304 5.7 % (5.1 )% (4.9 )% Fortress Partners Fund LP (A) Jul-06 Redeemable 322 480 1.6 % (4.8 )% 1.8 % Fortress Partners Offshore Fund LP (A) Nov-06 Redeemable 175 455 1.9 % (5.5 )% 1.7 % Fortress Asia Macro Funds (I) Mar-11 Redeemable (I) 2,793 (I) (I) (4.1 )% Fortress Convex Asia Funds May-12 Redeemable 208 189 (3.4 )% 1.9 % (4.3 )% Fortress Redwood Fund LTD Aug- 13 Redeemable 680 582 (3.9 )% (10.2 )% (C) Fortress Centaurus Global Funds Jun-14 Redeemable 222 (3.4 )% (3.5 )% (C) Credit Hedge Funds Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LP (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 4,379 4,224 10.9 % 4.9 % 7.8 % Drawbridge Special Opps Fund LTD (F) Aug-02 PE style redemption 1,165 1,324 10.0 % 0.7 % 5.7 % Worden Fund Jan-10 PE style redemption 225 223 10.1 % 0.9 % 5.9 % Worden Fund II Aug-10 PE style redemption 37 38 8.2 % 0.0 % 4.6 % Japan Income Fund Dec-13 Redeemable 94 14 (B) (B) (B) Value Recovery Funds and related assets (G) Non-redeemable 150 309 (G) (G) (G) Continued on next page. 67 Table of Contents AUM Returns (B) Inception September 30, Inception to Name of Fund Date Maturity Date (A) 2015 2014 September 30, 2015 Credit PE Funds Credit Opportunities Fund Jan-08 Oct-20 $ 600 $ 575 24.7 % Credit Opportunities Fund II Jul-09 Jul-22 517 576 16.8 % Credit Opportunities Fund III Sep-11 Mar-24 1,794 1,624 10.8 % Credit Opportunities Fund IV Feb-15 Feb-27 312 N/A (C) FCO Managed Accounts (H) Sep-08 to Jun-12 Apr-22 to Dec-24 1,851 1,072 15.8 % FCO Managed Accounts (H) Mar-15 to Jun-15 Mar-25 to Feb-28 206 608 (C) Long Dated Value Fund I Apr-05 Apr-30 129 163 5.3 % Long Dated Value Fund II Nov-05 Nov-30 118 121 3.7 % Long Dated Value Fund III Feb-07 Feb-32 64 74 6.4 % LDVF Patent Fund Nov-07 Nov-27 4 3 9.1 % Real Assets Fund Jun-07 Jun-17 41 64 6.6 % Japan Opportunity Fund Jun-09 Jun-19 172 316 32.3 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Dollar) Dec-11 Dec-21 424 714 21.3 % Japan Opportunity Fund II (Yen) Dec-11 Dec-21 450 668 23.5 % Japan Opportunity Fund III (Dollar) Dec-14 Dec-24 100 N/A (C) Japan Opportunity Fund III (Yen) Dec-14 Dec-24 58 N/A (C) Net Lease Fund I Jan-10 Dec-15 3 21.2 % Global Opportunities Fund Sep-10 Sep-20 195 160 8.7 % Global Opportunities Fund II Jul-15 Jul-26 42 N/A (C) Life Settlements Fund Dec-10 Dec-22 93 91 (C) Life Settlements Fund MA Dec-10 Dec-22 8 7 (C) Real Estate Opportunities Fund May-11 Sep-24 130 165 14.8 % Real Estate Opportunities Fund II May-14 May-27 1,000 31 (C) Real Estate Opportunities REOC Fund Oct-11 Oct-23 41 41 11.9 % Subtotal - all funds 33,039 33,969 Managed accounts (I) 371 981 Affiliated Managers and Co-managed Funds (I) 7,474 N/A Total - Alternative Investments 40,884 34,950 Logan Circle 33,446 31,096 Total (J) $ 74,330 $ 66,046 (A) For funds with a contractual maturity date, maturity date represents the final contractual maturity date including the assumed exercise of extension options, which in some cases require the approval of the applicable fund advisory board. Fund II, Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment have passed their contractual maturity date and are in the process of an orderly wind down. The publicly traded permanent capital vehicles are considered to have permanent equity as they have an indefinite life and no redemption terms. Investor capital in the liquid hedge funds and the Fortress Partners Funds is generally redeemable at the option of the fund investors; however, a substantial portion of the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds' and Fortress Partner Funds' investor capital is not redeemable by its investors and such capital will only be distributed as underlying assets are realized, in accordance with their governing documents. The Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds may pay redemptions over time, as the underlying investments are realized, in accordance with their governing documents (PE style redemption). The Value Recovery Funds generally do not allow for redemptions, but are in the process of realizing their remaining investments in an orderly liquidation. Management notes that funds which had a term of three years or longer at inception, funds which have permanent equity, funds which have a PE style redemption and funds which do not allow for redemptions aggregated approximately 82% of our alternative investment AUM as of September 30, 2015 . (B) Represents the following: For the private equity funds and credit PE funds, returns represent net annualized internal rates of return to limited partners after management fees and incentive allocations, and are computed on an inception to date basis consistent with industry standards. Incentive allocations are computed based on a hypothetical liquidation of the net assets of each fund as of the balance sheet date. Returns are calculated for the investors as a whole. The computation of such returns for an individual investor may vary from these returns based on different management fee and incentive arrangements, and the timing of capital transactions. 68 Table of Contents For publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, returns represent the current dividend yield which is calculated by annualizing the most recently declared base dividend and dividing the result by the closing stock price for the period. Excludes the impact of special dividends declared in connection with REIT compliance, which may increase returns. There can be no assurance regarding the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles' respective dividend yields, which may fluctuate meaningfully as a result of changes in the amount of dividends paid in the future and/or changes in their respective stock prices. In August 2015, FTAI declared its first dividend as a public company which represented a prorated quarterly dividend. For liquid and credit hedge funds, returns represent net returns after taking into account any fees borne by the funds for a new issue eligible, single investor class as of the close of business on the last date of the relevant period. Specific performance may vary based on, among other things, whether fund investors are invested in one or more special investments. No return is shown for Japan Income Fund, returns are not an accurate performance metric for this fund. (C) Generally, these funds had no successor fund formed and either (a) were in their investment or commitment periods and had capital, other than recallable capital, remaining to invest, or (b) had less than one year elapsed from their inception, through the end of these periods. (D) For liquid hedge funds and credit hedge funds, reflects a composite of monthly returns presented on an annualized net return basis. (E) WWTAI was a private fund formed in July 2011 and managed by Fortress. All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. (F) The returns for Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds exclude the performance of special investments and the performance of the redeeming capital accounts (i.e. investors who requested redemptions in prior periods and who are being paid out as investments are realized). (G) Fortress began managing the third party originated Value Recovery Funds in June 2009. Their returns are not comparable since we are only managing the realization of existing investments within these funds which were acquired prior to Fortress becoming their manager. (H) AUM shown for prior periods have not been adjusted for funds which no longer fall within the description of Note (C) above for the current period. (I) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro Funds and related managed accounts were transferred to Graticule as part of our affiliated manager platform. In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds. (J) In addition to the funds listed, Fortress manages NIH (closed June 2015) and FPRF. Such funds are excluded from the table because they did not include any fee paying assets under management at the end of the periods presented. Fund I, Fund II, GAGACQ Coinvestment Fund (GAGFAH), FRID (GAGFAH), FRIC (Brookdale) and FICO (Intrawest) had zero AUM or were closed as of September 30, 2015 and 2014 , but for purposes of continuity of presentation, the returns of these funds have been left in the table. 69 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following is a discussion of our results of operations as reported under GAAP. For a detailed discussion of distributable earnings, revenues and expenses from each of our segments, see Segment Analysis below. Refer to Part I, Item 1, "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" for references to Notes in the table below. Nine Months Ended September 30, Variance Three Months Ended September 30, Variance 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) (Unaudited) Revenues Management fees: affiliates $ 413,057 $ 403,890 $ 9,167 $ 134,414 $ 138,135 $ (3,721 ) Management fees: non-affiliates 45,657 52,112 (6,455 ) 15,400 16,774 (1,374 ) Incentive income: affiliates 155,154 125,634 29,520 48,773 30,941 17,832 Incentive income: non-affiliates 735 1,030 (295 ) 439 343 96 Expense reimbursements: affiliates 168,544 153,448 15,096 59,988 50,600 9,388 Expense reimbursements: non-affiliates 9,573 9,931 (358 ) 2,757 4,869 (2,112 ) Other revenues (affiliate portion disclosed in Note 6) 6,476 4,589 1,887 2,248 1,518 730 799,196 750,634 48,562 264,019 243,180 20,839 Expenses Compensation and benefits 547,023 543,882 3,141 169,027 187,249 (18,222 ) General, administrative and other expense (including depreciation and amortization) 160,254 135,657 24,597 53,989 46,310 7,679 Interest expense 2,796 2,554 242 918 916 2 Transfer of interest in Graticule (see Note 1) 101,000 101,000 811,073 682,093 128,980 223,934 234,475 (10,541 ) Other Income (Loss) Gains (losses) (affiliate portion disclosed in Note 3) (15,114 ) (30,108 ) 14,994 (39,888 ) (23,917 ) (15,971 ) Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (7,890 ) (4,036 ) (3,854 ) (390 ) (4,036 ) 3,646 Earnings (losses) from equity method investees (16,808 ) 81,750 (98,558 ) (22,195 ) 38,928 (61,123 ) Gain on transfer of Graticule (see Note 1) 134,400 134,400 94,588 47,606 46,982 (62,473 ) 10,975 (73,448 ) Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 82,711 116,147 (33,436 ) (22,388 ) 19,680 (42,068 ) Income tax benefit (expense) (16,784 ) (16,934 ) 150 (3,584 ) (3,024 ) (560 ) Net Income (Loss) $ 65,927 $ 99,213 $ (33,286 ) $ (25,972 ) $ 16,656 $ (42,628 ) Allocation of Net Income (Loss): Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries $ 42,149 $ 60,800 $ (18,651 ) $ (11,727 ) $ 12,623 $ (24,350 ) Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries (6 ) (1,885 ) 1,879 (2,042 ) 2,042 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Class A Shareholders 23,784 40,298 (16,514 ) (14,245 ) 6,075 (20,320 ) $ 65,927 $ 99,213 $ (33,286 ) $ (25,972 ) $ 16,656 $ (42,628 ) 70 Table of Contents Factors Affecting Our Results During the periods discussed herein, the following are significant factors that have affected our business and/or materially impacted our results of operations: changes in our AUM; level of performance of our funds; and changes in the size of our fund management and investment platform and our related compensation structure. Each of these factors is described below. Average Management Fee Paying AUM Average management fee paying AUM represents the reference amounts upon which our management fees are based. The reference amounts for management fee purposes are: (i) capital commitments or invested capital (or NAV, on an investment by investment basis, if lower) for the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds, which in connection with private equity funds raised after March 2006 includes the mark-to-market value on public securities held within the fund, (ii) contributed capital or book equity for the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) the NAV for hedge funds and the NAV or fair value for managed accounts (including Logan Circle), (iv) or the AUM for Affiliated Managers and co-managed funds. Average fee paying AUM for the Fortress Funds, based on a simple quarterly average, was as follows (in millions): Private Equity Nine Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles Liquid Hedge Funds (A) Credit Hedge Funds (A) Credit PE Funds Logan Circle Total September 30, 2015 $ 9,582 $ 5,758 $ 3,712 $ 6,940 $ 7,780 $ 33,192 $ 66,964 September 30, 2014 $ 10,916 $ 3,971 $ 7,633 $ 6,012 $ 7,107 $ 28,052 $ 63,691 Private Equity Three Months Ended Funds Permanent Capital Vehicles Liquid Hedge Funds (A) Credit Hedge Funds (A) Credit PE Funds Logan Circle Total September 30, 2015 $ 9,391 $ 6,922 $ 3,196 $ 7,657 $ 8,302 $ 33,505 $ 68,973 September 30, 2014 $ 10,145 $ 4,216 $ 7,698 $ 6,111 $ 6,961 $ 30,114 $ 65,245 (A) In January 2015, the Fortress Asia Macro funds and related managed accounts were transferred to Graticule as part of our affiliated manager platform. In July 2015, Fortress became co-manager of the Mount Kellett Funds. We note that, in certain cases, there are timing differences between an event's impact on average AUM and its impact on management fees earned. For instance, AUM is adjusted upon the occurrence of a private equity fund's reset date, but management fees are not impacted until the next contractual management fee calculation date (generally semi-annual). On October 13, 2015, Fortress announced that it will close the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts. Fortress expects to return most capital to investors by the end of 2015, which will impact our AUM and operating results. The Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts had average fee paying AUM of $2,724.7 million and $3,576.5 million for nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $2,234.5 million and $3,434.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Total revenues for the Fortress Macro Funds and related managed accounts was $42.9 million and $59.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and $10.2 million and $18.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Management Fees Changes in average AUM have an effect on our management fee revenues. Depending on the timing of capital contributions in a given period, the full economic benefits of an increase in AUM may not be recognized until the following period. Fortress's senior living property management subsidiary, FHC Property Management ("Blue Harbor"), has agreements to manage certain senior living properties, most of which are owned by New Senior Investment Group Inc. ("New Senior"). For these services, Fortress receives management fees based on a percentage of revenues from the properties. 71 Table of Contents Incentive Income Incentive income is calculated as a percentage of returns (or in some cases taxable income) or operating results earned by the Fortress Funds. Incentive income that is not subject to contingent repayment is recorded as earned. Incentive income received from funds that continues to be subject to contingent repayment is deferred and recorded as a deferred incentive income liability until the related contingency is resolved. The contingencies related to a portion of the incentive income we have received from certain private equity Fortress Funds have been resolved. In determining our segment measure of operations, distributable earnings, we generally recognize private equity style incentive income when gains are realized and hedge fund incentive income based on current returns, and we recognize our employees' share of this income as compensation expense at the same time. In contrast, GAAP requires that we likewise recognize the compensation when incurred, but we must defer the recognition of the revenue until all contingencies, primarily minimum returns over the lives of the private equity style funds and annual performance requirements of the hedge funds, are resolved - regardless of the probability of such returns being met. As a result, when we have significant private equity style realizations or positive returns in interim periods in our hedge funds, which we regard as positive events, the related incentive income impact improves our segment distributable earnings while reducing our GAAP results for the same period. As of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014, we had $20.6 billion and $21.3 billion, respectively, of incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds above their incentive income threshold which is eligible to generate future incentive income and thus potentially contribute to our earnings. The decrease in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds above their incentive income threshold was primarily driven by negative performance and redemptions in our liquid hedge fund and net investor distributions in our credit PE funds and partially offset by positive performance in our private equity funds, credit PE funds and permanent capital vehicles. As of September 30, 2015 and June 30, 2015 we had $20.6 billion and $21.2 billion, respectively, of incentive eligible NAV. The decrease in the incentive eligible NAV in the Fortress Funds was primarily driven by net investor distributions in our credit PE funds and negative performance in our private equity funds and was partially offset by positive performance in our credit PE funds. Incentive eligible NAV is dependent on the performance of our funds which in turn is dependent on a number of factors, and historical performance of our funds may not be indicative of future results. See " Performance of Our Funds" and" Assets Under Management-Redemptions" for additional information. Fund Management and Investment Platform In order to accommodate the demands of our funds' investment portfolios, we have created investment platforms, which are comprised primarily of our people, financial and operating systems and supporting infrastructure. Expansion of our investment platform historically required increases in headcount, consisting of newly hired investment professionals and support staff, as well as leases and associated improvements to corporate offices to house the increasing number of employees, and related augmentation of systems and infrastructure. Our headcount changed from 1,159 asset management employees as of September 30, 2014 , to 1,202 asset management employees as of September 30, 2015 . Additionally, as of September 30, 2015 we have 1,881 employees at the senior living properties that we manage (whose compensation expense is reimbursed to us by the owners of the facilities) compared to 1,720 such employees as of September 30, 2014 . Revenues Nine months ended September 30 Total revenues were $799.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $48.6 million , compared to $750.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in revenues of $48.6 million was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $29.5 million in incentive income from affiliates, (ii) an increase of $15.1 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates, (iii) an increase of $9.2 million in management fees from affiliates, and (iv) an increase of $1.9 million in other revenues. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $6.5 million, (ii) a decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $0.3 million and (iii) a decrease in incentive income from non-affiliates of $0.3 million. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $29.5 million was primarily attributable to a net increase of $64.5 million in incentive income earned from our credit PE funds, primarily as a result of non-clawbackable tax distributions and an increase in crystalized incentive income as a result of realization events during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 which resulted in the recognition of revenue as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $22.1 million in incentive income recognized in the prior period from Fund II as a result of a realization event during the nine months ended September 30, 2014, which resulted in the recognition of revenue as certain contingencies for repayment 72 Table of Contents were resolved, (ii) a net decrease of $9.0 million in incentive income recognized from our permanent capital vehicles, (iii) a decrease of $2.3 million in crystallized incentive income earned from our credit hedge funds and (iv) a decrease of $1.5 million in crystallized incentive income earned from our liquid hedge funds. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $15.1 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our businesses and an increase in expense reimbursements related to our senior living property manager for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. The increase in management fees from affiliates of $9.2 million was primarily due to (i) an increase of $38.7 million in management fees primarily related to our permanent capital vehicles, credit PE funds, credit hedge funds and Logan Circle as a result of increases in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $4.6 billion, (ii) a net increase of $18.8 million in management fees resulting from an increase of permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period, (iii) $12.1 million of fees related to our affiliated manager platform which started in January 2015 and (iv) $6.2 million of management fees related to a co-management agreement which began in July 2015. These increases were partially offset by (i) a $38.8 million decrease in management fees as a result of a decrease of $2.5 billion in AUM relating to the Fortress Asia Macro Funds which transitioned to Graticule and (ii) a $27.8 million decrease in management fees as a result of a decrease in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $2.0 billion in our private equity funds and liquid hedge funds. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $6.5 million was primarily related to (i) a decrease of $7.6 million in management fees from our liquid hedge fund and private equity managed accounts as a result of decreases in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $0.6 billion, (ii) a $3.6 million decrease in management fees as result of a transfer of $0.3 billion in average management fee paying AUM relating to the Fortress Asia Macro Fund managed accounts which transitioned to Graticule and (iii) a decrease of $1.0 million in management fees earned from certain investments in one of our permanent capital vehicles. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $5.8 million related to Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average management fee paying AUM of $3.9 billion. Expenses Nine months ended September 30 Expenses were $811.1 million, including a non-cash expense of $101.0 million relating to the transfer of an interest in Graticule, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $129.0 million, compared to $682.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Excluding the Graticule transfer, expenses were $710.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $28.0 million, compared to $682.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in expenses was primarily due to an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $24.6 million and an increase in compensation and benefits of $3.1 million. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to (i) an increase of $19.9 million in depreciation and amortization expenses of which $18.2 million was related to the impairment of certain technology and software related assets in the liquid hedge fund business for nine months ended September 30, 2015 , (ii) an increase of $3.1 million in professional fees, and (iii) an increase of $1.8 million in general and other expenses. Total compensation and benefits increased primarily due to (i) a $24.1 million increase in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our credit PE funds and Principal Performance Payments in our private equity and credit businesses, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods, (ii) a $11.2 million increase in other payroll taxes and benefits as a result of an increase in headcount, (iii) a $3.0 million increase in equity based compensation, and (iv) a $2.2 million increase in discretionary bonus accruals. These increases were partially offset by a $37.4 million decrease in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods. Revenues Three months ended September 30 Total revenues were $264.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $20.8 million , compared to $243.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . 73 Table of Contents The increase in revenues of $20.8 million was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $17.8 million in incentive income from affiliates, (ii) an increase of $9.4 million in expense reimbursements from affiliates and (iii) a $0.7 million increase in other revenues. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $3.7 million and $1.4 million in management fees from affiliates and non-affiliates, respectively, and (ii) a $2.1 million decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates. The increase in incentive income from affiliates of $17.8 million was primarily attributable to a net increase of $36.7 million in incentive income earned from our credit PE funds, primarily as a result of non-clawbackable tax distributions and an increase in crystalized incentive income as a result of realization events during the three months ended September 30, 2015 which resulted in the recognition of revenue as certain contingencies for repayment were resolved. These increases were partially offset by (i) a net decrease of $11.6 million in incentive income recognized from our permanent capital vehicles, (ii) a decrease of $6.8 million in crystallized incentive income earned from our credit hedge funds and (iii) a $0.5 million net decrease in incentive income recognized from our liquid hedge funds. The increase in expense reimbursements from affiliates of $9.4 million was primarily related to an increase in operating expenses eligible for reimbursement from our businesses and an increase in expense reimbursements related to our senior living property manager for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. The decrease in management fees from affiliates of $3.7 million was primarily related to (i) a $13.7 million decrease in management fees as a result of a decrease of $2.8 billion in average management fee paying AUM relating to the Fortress Asia Macro Funds which transitioned to Graticule, (ii) a $6.6 million decrease in management fees as a result of a decrease in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $1.7 billion in our private equity funds and liquid hedge funds and (iii) a net decrease of $4.7 million in management fees related to permanent capital vehicle options granted to Fortress during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. These decreases are partially offset by (i) a net increase of $10.9 million in management fees primarily related to permanent capital vehicles, credit PE funds, and credit hedge funds as a result of increases in the average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average, of $5.5 billion, (ii) $6.2 million of management fees related to a co-management agreement which began in July 2015 and (iii) $4.4 million of management fees related to our affiliated manager platform which started in January 2015. The decrease in management fees from non-affiliates of $1.4 million was primarily related to (i) a decrease of $1.5 million from our liquid hedge fund managed accounts as a result of a decrease in average management fee paying AUM, based on a simple quarterly average of $0.4 billion, (ii) a $1.3 million decrease in management fees as a result of the transfer of $0.3 billion in AUM relating to the Fortress Asia Macro Fund managed accounts which transitioned to Graticule and (iii) a decrease of $0.3 million in management fees earned from certain investments in one of our permanent capital vehicles. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.7 million related to Logan Circle as a result of an increase in average management fee paying AUM of $2.5 billion. The decrease in expense reimbursements from non-affiliates of $2.1 million was primarily related to a decrease in operating expenses eligible for reimbursements, primarily related to our liquid hedge fund managed accounts. Expenses Three months ended September 30 Expenses were $223.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $10.5 million, compared to $234.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease in expenses is primarily due to a decrease in compensation and benefits of $18.2 million partially offset by an increase in general, administrative and other expenses (including depreciation and amortization) of $7.7 million. Total compensation and benefits decreased primarily due to (i) a $24.7 million decrease in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our credit hedge funds, liquid hedge funds and permanent capital vehicles, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods, (ii) a $5.9 million decrease in discretionary bonus accruals, and (iii) a $4.1 million decrease in equity based compensation. These decreases were partially offset by a $10.9 million increase in profit-sharing expenses primarily related to our credit PE funds and Principal Performance Payments in our private equity and credit businesses, as a result of changes in the performance of relevant funds and the amount of profit sharing interests held by employees in the respective periods and (ii) a $5.6 million increase in other payroll taxes and benefits as a result of an increase in headcount. The increase in general, administrative and other expenses was primarily due to an increase of $11.1 million in depreciation and amortization expenses, of which $10.7 million was related to the impairment of certain technology and software related assets in the liquid hedge fund business for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and which was partially offset by a $1.4 decrease in professional fees and a $2.0 million decrease in general and other expenses. 74 Table of Contents Current and Future Compensation Expense We seek to compensate our asset management employees in a manner that aligns their compensation with the creation of long-term value for our shareholders. We aim to reward sustained financial and operational performance for all of our businesses and to motivate key employees to remain with us for long and productive careers. We must achieve our goals of alignment, motivation and retention within the confines of current performance and liquidity. Aside from base salary, there are three significant components in our compensation structure. Discretionary bonuses are awarded annually based on performance and on our estimation of market compensation. We note that while the payment of discretionary bonuses is optional, it is important for us to maintain a certain level of discretionary bonuses, based on the level of market compensation, even in periods of weaker performance, in order to retain and motivate employees. Equity-based compensation awards, primarily RSUs, which are typically subject to service-based vesting conditions, are a key component of this compensation as they achieve all three goals. We set the level of our equity-based compensation each year based on performance (firm and individual) and our liquidity, as well as the number of shares available under our equity incentive plan and the dilutive impact they would have upon vesting. In future periods, we will further recognize non-cash compensation expense on our non-vested equity-based awards outstanding as of September 30, 2015 of $91.2 million with a weighted average recognition period of 4.1 years. Profit-sharing compensation is awarded, generally upon fund formation and, in certain cases, subject to vesting, based on certain employees' roles within the fund businesses and serves to motivate these employees and align their interests with both our and our funds' investors. Private equity and credit PE profit-sharing expense is generally based on a percentage of realized fund incentive income. Liquid and credit hedge fund profit sharing expense may be based on a percentage of fund incentive income, a percentage of fund net management fees (management fees less related expenses), or a percentage of the incentive income generated by an individual trader (regardless of overall fund performance). The actual expense is based on actual performance within the funds and is detailed by business in Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements contained herein. We note the following with respect to profit-sharing expense: Within our hedge funds, profit-sharing expenses can vary greatly by fund, depending on the compensation packages negotiated with key traders and investment officers within these funds. Therefore, the overall profit-sharing percentage of a given hedge fund segment will vary from year to year depending on which funds and which employees generate the most profits within the segment. Other Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was $94.6 million, including a non-cash gain of $134.4 million relating to the transfer of Graticule, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, a net increase of $47.0 million, compared to $47.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. Excluding the Graticule transfer, Other Income (Loss) was $(39.8) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, a net decrease of $87.4 million , compared to $47.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014. The net decrease of $87.4 million was primarily related to (i) a net decrease of $98.6 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds, credit PE funds and Affiliated Managers for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period, (ii) a net decrease in realized and unrealized gains of $5.8 million in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to the prior period and (iii) the recognition of a $7.9 million expense associated with an increase in the tax receivable agreement liability for the nine months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to $4.0 million in the prior period. These losses were partially offset by (i) a decrease in net realized and unrealized losses of $15.3 million in the fair value of options and common stock held in our publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and publicly traded private equity portfolio companies for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period and (ii) a decrease in losses of $6.1 million related to our holdings of digital currency. Three months ended September 30 Other Income (Loss) was $(62.5) million, for the three months ended September 30, 2015, a net decrease of $73.4 million, compared to $11.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014. The net decrease of $73.4 million is primarily related to (i) a net decrease of $61.1 million in earnings from equity method investees primarily with respect to our investments in our private equity funds, liquid hedge funds, credit hedge funds, credit PE funds and Affiliated Managers for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period, (ii) a net realized and unrealized loss of $2.5 million in the fair value of derivatives, primarily Japanese Yen foreign exchange contracts for the three months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to a net realized and unrealized gain of $12.0 million in the prior period, resulting in a net decrease of $14.5 million and (iii) a net decrease in realized and unrealized losses of $8.5 million in the fair value of options and common stock held in our publicly traded permanent 75 Table of Contents capital vehicles and publicly traded private equity companies for the three months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in losses of $5.0 million related to our holdings of digital currency and (ii) a net decrease in expense of $3.6 million associated with the tax receivable agreement liability for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. Income Tax Benefit (Expense) Nine months ended September 30 Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , Fortress recognized income tax expense of $16.8 million and $16.9 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in annual taxable income and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods) and (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure. Three months ended September 30 Fortress has recorded a significant deferred tax asset. A substantial portion of this asset is offset by a liability associated with the tax receivable agreement with our Principals. This deferred tax asset is further discussed under Critical Accounting Policies below and the tax receivable agreement is discussed in our consolidated financial statements included herein. For the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , Fortress recognized income tax benefit of $3.6 million and income tax expense of $3.0 million , respectively. The primary reasons for changes in income tax expense (benefit) are (i) changes in annual taxable income and related foreign and state income taxes (and forecasts thereof which are used to calculate the tax provision during interim periods) and (ii) changes in the mix of businesses producing income, which may be subject to tax at different rates, and related changes in our structure. Factors that impacted the period-over-period increase (decrease) in income taxes are detailed as follows: Comparative Periods Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Change in pre-tax income applicable to Class A Shareholders (A) $ (6,475 ) Change in foreign and state income taxes (B) (7,602 ) Change in mix of business (C) 786 Change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance and related adjustments (D) 11,948 Tax receivable agreement liability adjustment (E) 1,350 Change in tax credits and other deductions (157 ) Total change (F) $ (150 ) (A) Changes in pre-tax income applicable to Class A shareholders are caused by changes in the pre-tax income of Fortress Operating Group and by changes in the Class A shareholders ownership interest in Fortress Operating Group. (B) The primary driver of the decrease from 2014 to 2015 was the change in state and local tax rate primarily related to enacted legislative changes to New York City corporate taxation, which increased the value of certain future tax benefits. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in foreign taxes due to an increase in foreign-sourced income. (C) For the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , the amount of income passed through to shareholders was higher when compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , resulting in an increase in income tax expense in 2015. In 2015, we generated less unrealized gains and certain other income, which is passed directly to shareholders, resulting in an increase in income tax expense. (D) Primarily related to the change in the portion of the deferred tax asset that is dependent on the generation of capital gains to be realized. (E) Relates to the tax receivable agreement which is not tax deductible and represents a significant permanent tax/GAAP difference. (F) Interim period tax provisions are based on estimates, including estimates of full year taxable amounts, and are therefore subject to significant judgment and uncertainty. This can result in significant variability from period to period and comparability may be limited. 76 Table of Contents Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) Nine months ended September 30 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $60.8 million to $42.1 million , a decrease of $18.7 million , primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $15.7 million in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the Principals and a former senior employee and (ii) a $3.0 million decrease in Others interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The $15.7 million decrease in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the Principals and a former senior employee was primarily a result of a $29.9 million decrease in Fortress shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Three months ended September 30 Principals and Others Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries decreased from $12.6 million to $(11.7) million , a decrease of $24.4 million , primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $23.4 million in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the Principals and a former senior employee and (ii) a $1.3 million decrease in Others interests in the net income of consolidated subsidiaries of Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The $23.4 million decrease in the amount of consolidated net income (loss) allocable to the FOG units held by the Principals and a former senior employee was primarily a result of a $44.3 million decrease in Fortress shareholders' net income in Fortress Operating Group during the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2014. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $0.3 million resulting from the dilution of non-controlling interests in Fortress Operating Group caused by the delivery of restricted stock awards. Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) Redeemable Non-controlling Interests in Income (Loss) of Consolidated Subsidiaries represent the share of income (loss) attributable to equity interests which are redeemable and not owned by Fortress. Segment Analysis Fortress conducts its management and investment business through the following primary segments: (i) private equity funds, (ii) permanent capital vehicles, (iii) liquid hedge funds, (iv) credit hedge funds, (v) credit PE funds and (vi) Logan Circle. These segments are differentiated based on their varying strategies and, secondarily, on fund investor terms. Because of such differences in our segments' strategies and investor terms, each segment requires different types of management focus and those segments are managed separately. For segment results of operations, the amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. Assets not allocated to a segment consist primarily of cash and net deferred tax assets. Discussed below are our results of operations for each of our reportable segments. They represent the separate segment information available and utilized by our management committee, which consists of our principals and certain key officers, and which functions as our chief operating decision maker ("CODM") to assess performance and to allocate resources. Management evaluates the performance of each segment based on its distributable earnings. Management assesses our segments on a Fortress Operating Group and pre-tax basis, and therefore adds back the non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries related to Fortress Operating Group units (held by the principals and a former senior employee), and income tax expense. Distributable earnings is described in Note 10 to Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements Segment Reporting, which includes a complete discussion of distributable earnings basis impairment and reserves, including the methodology used in estimating the amounts as well as the amounts incurred in the relevant periods. Distributable earnings for the existing Fortress businesses is equal to net income (loss) attributable to Fortress's Class A shareholders adjusted as follows: Incentive Income (i) a. for Fortress Funds which are private equity funds, the private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds, adding (a) incentive income paid (or declared as a distribution) to Fortress, less an applicable reserve for potential future clawbacks if the likelihood of a clawback is deemed greater than remote 77 Table of Contents by Fortresss CODM (net of the reversal of any prior such reserves that are no longer deemed necessary), minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. for other Fortress Funds, at interim periods, adding (a) incentive income on an accrual basis as if the incentive income from these funds were earned on a quarterly basis, minus (b) incentive income recorded in accordance with GAAP, c. adding the receipt of cash or proceeds from the sale of shares received (a) as incentive income from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles and (b) pursuant to the exercise of options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, in excess of their strike price, Other Income (ii) with respect to income from certain investments in the Fortress Funds and certain other interests or assets that cannot be readily transferred or redeemed: a. for equity method investments in the private equity funds, private permanent capital vehicle through IPO in May 2015 and credit PE funds as well as indirect equity method investments in hedge fund special investment accounts (which generally have investment profiles similar to private equity funds), treating these investments as cost basis investments by adding (a) realizations of income, primarily dividends, from these funds, minus (b) impairment with respect to these funds, if necessary, minus (c) equity method earnings (or losses) recorded in accordance with GAAP, b. subtracting gains (or adding losses) on options held in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, c. subtracting unrealized gains (or adding unrealized losses) on derivatives, direct investments in publicly traded portfolio companies and in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, (iii) subtracting management fee income recorded in accordance with GAAP in connection with the receipt of options from the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles, if any, (iv) subtracting the gain on transfer of Graticule, Expenses (v) adding or subtracting, as necessary, the employee profit sharing portion of incentive income described in (i) above to match the timing of the expense with the revenue, (vi) adding back equity-based compensation expense (including options in the publicly traded permanent capital vehicles assigned to employees, RSUs (including the portion of related dividend and distribution equivalents recorded as compensation expense), and restricted shares), (vii) adding back the amortization of intangible assets and any impairment of goodwill or intangible assets recorded under GAAP, (viii) adding back the expense related to transfer of interest in Graticule, (ix) adding the income (or subtracting the loss) allocable to the interests in consolidated subsidiaries attributable to Fortress Operating Group units, (x) adding back income tax benefit or expense and any income or expense recorded in connection with the tax receivable agreement (see Note 5). Private Equity Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our private equity funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 86,891 $ 104,552 $ (17,661 ) $ 28,515 $ 33,638 $ (5,123 ) Incentive Income 2,854 (2,854 ) Segment revenues total $ 86,891 $ 107,406 $ (20,515 ) $ 28,515 $ 33,638 $ (5,123 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 44,851 $ 163,851 $ (119,000 ) $ 15,691 $ 18,701 $ (3,010 ) 78 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $119.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $86.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $17.7 million , compared to $104.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees decreased by $17.7 million primarily due to (i) a decrease of $17.0 million in management fees primarily from Fund III, Fund III Co, Fund IV, Fund IV Co, FHIF and Fund V Co as a result of return of capital distributions and a decrease in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period and (ii) a decrease of $6.6 million in management fees due to the liquidation of FRIC and FRID, which both substantially liquidated their respective investments during the second quarter of 2014. These decreases were partially offset by (i) an increase of $5.4 million in management fees primarily from Fund V as a result of an increase in the market value of certain portfolio companies which impacted the computation of fees for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $0.8 million in management fees from Fortress Equity Partners. There was no incentive income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , compared to $2.9 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . During the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , the incentive income was due to a $2.0 million reversal of the Fund II clawback reserve, as well as $0.9 million in incentive income earned from a realization event in Fund II. Expenses Expenses were $42.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $4.0 million , compared to $38.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The net increase of $4.0 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net increase of $3.9 million in compensation and benefits expense and (ii) an increase of $0.1 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $94.5 million , compared to $94.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily attributable to (i) $49.9 million in distributions from realization events primarily from FRIC, FRID and the Mortgage Opportunities Funds I and II and (ii) a $45.9 million gain related to the sale of our GAGFAH stock. These amounts were partially offset by a $1.4 million realized loss on foreign currency hedges related to the Euro for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $3.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $28.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $5.1 million , compared to $33.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees decreased by $5.1 million primarily due to a decrease of $6.8 million in management fees primarily from Fund III, Fund IV, Fund IV Co, FHIF and Fund V Co as a result of return of capital distributions and a decrease in the market values of certain portfolio companies, some of which were below their invested capital, which impacted the computation of fees for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. This decrease was partially offset by (i) an increase of $1.0 million in management fees from Fund V primarily as a result of an increase in the market value of certain portfolio companies which impacted the computation of fees for the three months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period and (ii) an increase of $0.6 million in management fees primarily from Fortress Equity Partners. There was no incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014. Expenses Expenses were $12.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $2.1 million , compared to $15.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The net decrease of $2.1 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a net decrease of $1.7 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses for the three months ended 79 Table of Contents September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) a $0.4 million net decrease in compensation and benefits expense for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was less than $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and September 30, 2014, respectively. Permanent Capital Vehicles The following table presents our results of operations for our permanent capital vehicles segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 68,827 $ 50,434 $ 18,393 $ 27,118 $ 17,934 $ 9,184 Incentive Income 75,517 40,676 34,841 (1,476 ) 15,936 (17,412 ) Segment revenues total $ 144,344 $ 91,110 $ 53,234 $ 25,642 $ 33,870 $ (8,228 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 74,364 $ 25,901 $ 48,463 $ 8,282 $ 7,133 $ 1,149 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $48.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $68.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $18.4 million , compared to $50.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $18.4 million primarily due to (i) a $10.2 million increase due to a new management agreement with New Senior which was spun off by Newcastle in November 2014 as well as an increase in average AUM as a result of equity raised, (ii) an $8.9 million increase in management fees primarily due to an increase in New Residential average AUM as a result of equity raised, (iii) a $3.3 million increase in management fees due to a new management agreement with New Media which was spun off by Newcastle in February 2014, as well as an increase in average AUM as a result of equity raised, (iv) a $7.0 million increase due to an increase in AUM as a result of capital called from investors in WWTAI and a new management agreement as a result of the FTAI IPO, and (v) a $1.4 million increase in Blue Harbor management fees due to an increase in the number of properties managed by Blue Harbor. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $8.8 million in Newcastle management fees primarily related to its decrease in AUM due to the spin-offs of New Media and New Senior and (ii) a $3.7 million decrease in Eurocastle management fees. Incentive income was $75.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $34.8 million , compared to $40.7 million of incentive income recognized for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income increased by $34.8 million as a result of (i) an increase of $52.7 million related to the exercise of our options in New Residential, (ii) $8.7 million in incentive income related to New Media for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and (iii) $2.0 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $24.7 million in incentive income related to New Residential for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and (ii) a decrease of $4.0 million related to the exercise of a portion of our options in Newcastle. Expenses Expenses were $71.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $4.4 million , compared to $66.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase of $4.4 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $10.1 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments as compared to the prior period and (ii) a $0.6 million net increase in compensation and benefits expense, as compared to the prior period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $6.4 million in profit sharing expense. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $0.4 million, compared to $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . 80 Table of Contents Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $1.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $27.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $9.2 million , compared to $17.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $9.2 million primarily due to (i) a $4.8 million increase in management fees primarily due to an increase in New Residential average AUM as a result of equity raises, (ii) a $4.1 million increase due to a new management agreement with New Senior which was spun off by Newcastle in November 2014 as well as increase in average AUM as a result of equity raised, (iii) a $2.9 million increase related to a new management agreement as a result of the FTAI IPO, (iv) a $0.9 million increase in management fees from New Media due to an increase in average AUM as a result of equity raises and (v) a $0.4 million increase in Blue Harbor management fees due to an increase in revenues from the properties. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease of $3.0 million in Newcastle management fees primarily related to its decrease in AUM due to the spin-off of New Senior and (ii) a $1.0 million net decrease in Eurocastle management fees. Incentive income (loss) was $(1.5) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $17.4 million , compared to $15.9 million of incentive income recognized for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $17.4 million primarily as a result of (i) a decrease of $15.2 million in incentive income related to New Residential, including a reversal of prior recognized incentive income, (ii) a decrease of $3.3 million related to the exercise of a portion of our options in Newcastle, (iii) a decrease of $3.1 million related to the exercise of our options in New Residential and (iv) a decrease of $0.2 million from FTAI. These decreases were partially offset by (i) an increase of $3.6 million in incentive income related to New Media and (ii) $0.8 million in incentive income related to Eurocastle for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Expenses Expenses were $17.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $9.5 million , compared to $27.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $9.5 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $8.3 million in profit sharing expense related to the decrease in the incentive income described above, (ii) a $2.5 million net decrease in compensation and benefits expense, as compared to the prior period and (iii) a net decrease of $1.2 million in general and administrative and corporate allocable expenses. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $2.4 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $0.1 million, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Liquid Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our liquid hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 55,385 $ 103,373 $ (47,988 ) $ 15,704 $ 33,733 $ (18,029 ) Incentive Income 450 2,627 (2,177 ) 395 1,339 (944 ) Segment revenues total $ 55,835 $ 106,000 $ (50,165 ) $ 16,099 $ 35,072 $ (18,973 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (1,164 ) $ 12,191 $ (13,355 ) $ (4,492 ) $ (5,006 ) $ 514 81 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $13.4 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $55.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $48.0 million , compared to $103.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees decreased by $48.0 million primarily due to (i) a $42.4 million decrease in management fees earned from the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) as a result of the transfer to Graticule in January 2015, (ii) a $16.1 million decrease in management fees earned from Fortress Macro Funds and its managed accounts related to a decrease in AUM and (iii) a $3.7 million decrease related to Fortress Partners Fund management fees related to a decrease in AUM. These decreases were partially offset by (i) $12.1 million in fees related to our affiliated manager platform and (ii) a $2.1 million net increase in management fees primarily related to Fortress Redwood Fund, Fortress Centaurus Global Funds and Fortress Convex Asia Funds. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $0.5 million for nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $2.1 million , compared to $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $2.1 million primarily due to decreases of $1.4 million, $0.6 million and $0.4 million in the incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds, Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), and Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), respectively. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $0.3 million of incentive fees related to Fortress Convex Asia Funds, Fortress Partners Fund, Fortress Redwood Fund and Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. Expenses Expenses were $69.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $17.8 million , compared to $87.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $17.8 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $17.0 million in profit sharing compensation expense primarily due to the transfer of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) to Graticule in January 2015 and a decrease in operating results of our liquid hedge funds business for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period, (ii) a decrease of $16.7 million in net compensation and benefits expense due to the transfer of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) to Graticule in January 2015 and other decreases in headcount and (iii) a decrease of $1.3 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $17.1 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses, primarily related to an impairment of $18.2 million of certain software and technology-related assets for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Earnings from Affiliated Managers Earnings from Affiliated Managers were $10.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , related to our interests in Affiliated Managers which commenced during January 2015. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , an increase of $8.5 million , compared to $(6.4) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income increased by $8.5 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $4.6 million in distribution of earnings from realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period, (ii) a $4.3 million decrease in the amount of impairment on Fortress's holdings of digital currencies for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period and (iii) a $1.3 million net decrease in losses from our investments in our liquid hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a $1.7 million increase in impairment charges with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable (loss) decreased by $0.5 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $15.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $18.0 million , compared to $33.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees decreased by $18.0 million primarily due to 82 Table of Contents (i) a $15.0 million decrease in management fees earned from the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) as a result of the transfer to Graticule in January 2015, (ii) a $6.4 million decrease in management fees earned from Fortress Macro Funds and its managed accounts related to a decrease in AUM and (iii) a $1.3 million decrease related to Fortress Partners Fund management fees related to a decrease in AUM. These decreases were partially offset by (i) $4.4 million in fees related to our affiliated manager platform and (ii) a $0.3 million net increase in management fees primarily related to Fortress Redwood Fund, Fortress Convex Asia Funds and Fortress Centaurus Global Funds. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $0.4 million for three months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $0.9 million , compared to a $1.3 million of incentive income for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $0.9 million primarily due to decreases of $0.6 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million in the incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Global Macro Funds, Fortress Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) and Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts), respectively. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $0.4 million of incentive fees related to Fortress Convex Asia Funds and Fortress Partners Fund. Expenses Expenses were $21.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $9.7 million , compared to $31.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $9.7 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $10.0 million in profit sharing compensation expense as a result of a decrease in the operating results of our liquid hedge funds business for the three months ended September 30, 2015, as compared to the prior period and (ii) a decrease of $7.4 million in compensation and benefits expense due to the transfer of the Fortress Asia Macro Funds (including related managed accounts) to Graticule and other decreases in headcount. These decreases were partially offset by a net increase of $7.9 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses, primarily related to an impairment of $10.7 million of certain software and technology-related assets, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Earnings from Affiliated Managers Earnings (losses) from Affiliated Managers were $2.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , related to our interests in Affiliated Managers which commenced in January 2015. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(2.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease in loss of $6.9 million , compared to (loss) of $(9.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment loss decreased by $6.9 million primarily due to (i) a $5.8 million impairment of Fortress's holdings of digital currencies for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , (ii) a $1.7 million decrease in the amount of impairment with respect to our special investments in our liquid hedge funds and (iii) a $1.2 million net decrease in losses from our investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. The decrease in net investment loss was partially offset by a decrease of $1.7 million in distribution of earnings from realization events in special investments in our liquid hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Credit Hedge Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit hedge funds segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment revenues Management Fees $ 95,726 $ 84,129 $ 11,597 $ 36,216 $ 28,796 $ 7,420 Incentive Income 74,183 102,977 (28,794 ) 1,309 28,846 (27,537 ) Segment revenues total $ 169,909 $ 187,106 $ (17,197 ) $ 37,525 57,642 $ (20,117 ) Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 70,769 $ 72,626 $ (1,857 ) $ 12,855 $ 17,968 $ (5,113 ) 83 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $1.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $95.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $11.6 million , compared to $84.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $11.6 million primarily due to (i) $7.0 million in fees related to a co-management agreement which began in July 2015 and (ii) a $4.9 million increase in management fees from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in average AUM. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $74.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $28.8 million , compared to $103.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $28.8 million primarily due to decreases of $31.6 million and $2.6 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds, respectively, primarily due to lower returns for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by (i) a $5.1 million increase in incentive income from other investments and (ii) $0.3 million in incentive income from Fortress Japan Income Fund for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . Expenses Expenses were $100.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $11.6 million , compared to $112.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $11.6 million in expenses was primarily attributable to a decrease of $17.4 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the decrease in incentive income described above. This decrease was partially offset by (i) an increase of $3.2 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses and (ii) a $3.1 million net increase in compensation and benefits expense, as a result of an increase in headcount, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $1.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $3.7 million , compared to $(2.2) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income increased by $3.7 million primarily due to a $4.3 million decrease in the amount of impairment on Fortress's holdings of digital currencies for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings decreased by $5.1 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $36.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $7.4 million , compared to $28.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $7.4 million primarily due to (i) $7.0 million in fees related to a co-management agreement which began in July 2015 and (ii) a $0.4 million increase in management fees from the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds due to an increase in average AUM. Incentive income, which is determined on a fund-by-fund basis, was $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $27.5 million , compared to $28.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $27.5 million primarily due to decreases of $26.7 million and $1.0 million in incentive income generated by the Drawbridge Special Opportunities Funds and Worden Funds, respectively, primarily due to lower returns for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. These decreases were partially offset by $0.3 million in incentive income from Fortress Japan Income Fund for the three months ended September 30, 2015 . 84 Table of Contents Expenses Expenses were $25.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $9.6 million , compared to $34.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $9.6 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) a decrease of $12.6 million in profit sharing expense for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) a decrease of $0.6 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $1.6 million in general and administrative expenses and certain corporate allocable expenses and a net increase of $2.1 million in compensation and benefits expense as a result of an increase in headcount, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $5.4 million , compared to $(4.9) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income increased by $5.4 million primarily due to a $5.8 million impairment of Fortress's holdings of digital currencies for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase in net investment income was partially offset by a decrease of $0.4 million in earnings from our investments in our credit hedge funds for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Credit PE Funds The following table presents our results of operations for our credit PE segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 86,431 $ 71,898 $ 14,533 $ 28,986 $ 23,571 $ 5,415 Incentive Income 153,924 120,261 33,663 70,301 41,489 28,812 Segment revenues total $ 240,355 $ 192,159 $ 48,196 $ 99,287 $ 65,060 $ 34,227 Pre-tax distributable earnings $ 77,012 $ 54,021 $ 22,991 $ 38,398 $ 18,044 $ 20,354 Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $23.0 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $86.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $14.5 million , compared to $71.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $14.5 million primarily due to (i) an increase of $10.7 million related to Real Estate Opportunities Fund II, which commenced in May 2014, (ii) an increase of $9.5 million from the Credit Opportunities Fund III and its managed accounts primarily due to net capital calls made after the third quarter of 2014, (iii) an increase of $2.7 million from the Credit Opportunities Fund IV and its managed accounts and (iv) an increase of $1.6 million from Japan Opportunities Funds III, which commenced earning fees in February 2015. These increases in management fees were partially offset by a decrease of $9.6 million in management fees related to Japan Opportunities Funds I and II, Global Opportunities Fund, Credit Opportunities Fund II and related managed accounts, Long Dated Value Funds, Real Assets Fund and Credit Opportunities Fund I and related managed accounts. Incentive income was $153.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $33.7 million , compared to $120.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income increased by $33.7 million primarily due to increases of $35.0 million, $5.2 million and $1.9 million in incentive income generated by Credit Opportunities Funds and its managed accounts, Japan Opportunities Funds II and Real Assets Fund, respectively, as compared to the prior period. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $5.5 million, $1.8 million and $1.3 million in incentive income generated by Net Lease Fund, Japan Opportunities Fund I and Long Dated Value Funds, respectively, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $172.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $28.4 million , compared to $144.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase of $28.4 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $16.7 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income described above, (ii) an increase of $4.7 million in general and administrative expenses and certain corporate allocable expenses (iii) an increase of $2.1 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments and (iv) a net increase of $4.9 million in compensation 85 Table of Contents and benefits expense as a result of an increase in headcount, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $9.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $3.2 million , compared to $6.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income increased by $3.2 million primarily due to (i) the recognition of $1.3 million due to a realized gain on foreign currency hedges, (ii) an increase of $1.2 million in distributions of earnings related to realization events in our credit private equity funds and (iii) an increase of $0.8 million from affiliate interest income for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable earnings increased by $20.4 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $29.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $5.4 million , compared to $23.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $5.4 million primarily due to a net increase of (i) $2.7 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund III and its managed accounts, (ii) $2.7 million related to Real Estate Opportunities Fund II, (iii) $1.7 million related to Credit Opportunities Fund IV and its managed accounts and (iv) $1.3 million related to Japan Opportunities Funds III, each as compared to the prior period. These increases were offset by a decrease of $2.6 million in management fees related to Japan Opportunities Funds I and II, as compared to the prior period. Incentive income was $70.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $28.8 million , compared to $41.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income increased by $28.8 million primarily due to increases of $26.1 million, $2.0 million and $0.9 million in incentive income generated by the Credit Opportunities Funds and its managed accounts, Japan Opportunities Funds I and II and Real Assets Fund, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.1 million in incentive income from the Long Dated Value Funds. Expenses Expenses were $66.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $17.4 million , compared to $49.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase of $17.4 million in expenses was primarily attributable to (i) an increase of $14.5 million in profit sharing compensation expense related to the recognition of incentive income described above, (ii) an increase of $1.1 million in general and administrative expenses and certain corporate allocable expenses and (iii) an increase of $1.3 million in accruals for Principal Performance Payments, compared to the prior period. Net Investment Income Net investment income was $5.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $3.5 million , compared to $2.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income increased by $3.5 million primarily due to (i) a $1.7 million increase in distributions of earnings related to realization events in our credit private equity funds for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period and (ii) the recognition of $1.3 million due to a realized gain on foreign currency hedges. Logan Circle The following table presents our results of operations for our Logan Circle segment: Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Segment Revenues Management Fees $ 40,364 $ 34,328 $ 6,036 $ 13,831 $ 12,280 $ 1,551 Incentive Income 46 178 (132 ) (65 ) 178 (243 ) Segment revenues total $ 40,410 $ 34,506 $ 5,904 $ 13,766 $ 12,458 $ 1,308 Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (1,595 ) $ (4,476 ) $ 2,881 $ (5 ) $ (1,804 ) $ 1,799 86 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable (loss) decreased by $2.9 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $40.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $6.0 million , compared to $34.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $6.0 million due to an increase in average AUM as a result of net client inflows. Incentive income was less than $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $0.1 million , compared to $0.2 million of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Incentive income decreased by $0.1 million primarily as a result of lower returns for a certain managed account. Expenses Expenses were $41.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $1.6 million , compared to $39.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . The increase of $1.6 million in expenses was primarily attributable to an increase of $2.2 million in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses, partially offset by a decrease of $0.6 million in compensation and benefits expense. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(0.7) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $1.4 million , compared to net investment income of $0.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment income decreased by $1.4 million primarily due to losses from our investments in certain Logan Circle funds. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable (loss) decreased by $1.8 million primarily due to: Revenues Management fees were $13.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net increase of $1.6 million , compared to $12.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Management fees increased by $1.6 million due to an increase in average AUM primarily as a result of net client inflows. Incentive income was $(0.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a decrease of $0.2 million, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , due to lower returns in the third quarter of 2015 resulting in the reversal of a portion of the incentive income recorded during the first half of 2015, as compared to the prior period. Expenses Expenses were $13.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , a net decrease of $0.6 million , compared to $14.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . The decrease of $0.6 million in expenses was primarily attributable to a net decrease of $0.8 million in compensation and benefits expense which was partially offset by a $0.2 million increase in general and administrative expenses and corporate allocable expenses. Net Investment Income Net investment income (loss) was $(0.3) million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , an increase in net investment loss of $0.2 million , compared to net investment income (loss) of $(0.1) million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 . Net investment loss increased by $0.2 million primarily due to an increase in losses from our investments in certain Logan Circle funds. Unallocated Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 vs. 2014 2015 2014 $ 2015 2014 $ Pre-tax distributable earnings (loss) $ (3,355 ) $ (1,497 ) $ (1,858 ) $ (1,512 ) $ (714 ) $ (798 ) The amounts not allocated to a segment consist primarily of interest expense, foreign currency translation and interest income. 87 Table of Contents Nine months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable (loss) increased by $1.9 million, primarily due to an increase of $1.8 million in foreign currency translation losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Three months ended September 30 Pre-tax distributable (loss) increased by $0.8 million primarily due to an increase of $0.9 million in foreign currency translation losses and partially offset by a $0.1 million increase in other revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2015 , as compared to the prior period. Embedded Gains (Losses) The following table reflects all of our investments which are not marked to market through distributable earnings for segment reporting purposes as of September 30, 2015 : Fund Fortress Share of NAV (A) Fortress Segment Cost Basis (B) Excess (C) (Deficit) (C) Main Funds Fund II $ 26 $ $ 26 $ N/A Fund III and Fund III Coinvestment 5,171 5,171 N/A Fund IV and Fund IV Coinvestment 72,608 27,821 44,787 N/A Fund V and Fund V Coinvestment 196,865 13,252 183,613 N/A Long Dated Value Funds 18,106 8,421 9,685 N/A Real Assets Funds 11,727 11,727 N/A Credit Opportunities Funds 144,405 100,729 45,710 (2,034 ) Asia Funds (Japan Opportunity Funds and Global Opportunities Funds) 28,210 15,319 12,892 (1 ) Real Estate Opportunities Funds 9,919 7,763 2,156 N/A MSR Opportunities Funds 2,826 2,442 384 N/A Italian NPL Opportunities Fund 281 299 N/A (18 ) Other Funds (combined) Private investment #1 277,700 207,348 70,352 N/A Private investment #2 65,944 8,425 57,519 N/A Permanent capital vehicles Eurocastle (EURONEXT: ECT) 2,005 78 1,927 N/A Newcastle (NYSE: NCT) 759 60 699 N/A New Residential (NYSE: NRZ) 6,793 413 6,380 N/A New Media (NYSE: NEWM) 1,158 54 1,104 N/A New Senior (NYSE: SNR) 1,808 229 1,579 N/A FTAI (NYSE: FTAI) (D) 5,190 6,283 N/A (1,093 ) Other Hedge fund sidepocket investments 49,140 22,822 27,478 (1,160 ) Direct investments - Other 60,630 33,266 34,271 (6,907 ) Total $ 961,271 $ 455,024 $ 517,460 $ (11,213 ) (A) Represents the net asset value (NAV) of Fortresss investment in each fund. This is generally equal to its GAAP and segment carrying value. (B) Represents Fortresss cost basis in each investment for segment reporting purposes, which is net of any prior impairments taken for distributable earnings. (C) Represents the difference between NAV and segment cost basis. If negative (a deficit), this represents potential future impairment. If positive (an excess), this represents unrealized gains which, if realized, will increase future distributable earnings. (D) All of the capital of WWTAI was contributed to FTAI which completed its initial public offering in May 2015. Excludes the FTAI shares received at IPO as incentive income, with a fair value of $4.4 million as of September 30, 2015 . 88 Table of Contents Sensitivity For an analysis of the sensitivity of segment revenues to changes in the estimated fair value of the Fortress Fund investments, see Part I, Item 3,