Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2023: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1-31, 2023 3,300,000 $ 113.22 3,300,000 57,243,104 November 1-30, 2023 2,330,468 122.71 2,330,468 54,912,636 December 1-31, 2023 2,933,402 133.08 2,933,402 51,979,234 Total 8,563,870 8,563,870 (1)On February 22, 2023, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 75.0 million shares of our common stock. This authorization does not expire. Stock Performance Graph The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31, 2023 with the S&P 500 Index, the S&P 500 Financials Index and the NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index (the Index). Prior to September 21, 2020, the Index was known as the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index. The Index, as renamed, is identical to the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index prior to its name change on September 21, 2020. In connection with the transfer of the listing of our common stock to the New York Stock Exchange from the NASDAQ Global Select Market in 2023, we believe the S&P 500 Financials Index is a more appropriate published industry index for comparison purposes going forward as it contains a number of our peers. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2018 in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents December 31, 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Fiserv, Inc. $ 100 $ 157 $ 155 $ 141 $ 138 $ 181 S&P 500 Index 100 131 156 200 164 207 S&P 500 Financials Index 100 132 130 175 157 176 NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index 100 139 187 178 139 169 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. This section generally discusses information and results pertaining to the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. Information and discussion of results pertaining to the year ended December 31, 2021 not included herein can be found in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2022, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2023. Our discussion is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company and the products and services that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies and estimates. This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. Our critical accounting policies are also summarized in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 26 Table of Contents Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2023 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2022. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at December 31, 2023. Overview Company Background We are a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We serve clients around the globe, including merchants, banks, credit unions, other financial institutions and corporate clients. We provide account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale (POS) and business management platform. Our operations are comprised of the Merchant Acceptance (Acceptance) segment, the Financial Technology (Fintech) segment and the Payments and Network (Payments) segment. The businesses in our Acceptance segment provide a wide range of commerce-enabling solutions and serve merchants of all sizes around the world. These solutions include merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection products; Clover, our cloud-based POS and integrated commerce operating system for small and mid-sized businesses (SMBs) and independent software vendors (ISVs); and CaratSM, our integrated operating system for large businesses. We distribute the products and services in the Acceptance segment businesses through a variety of channels, including direct sales teams, strategic partnerships with agent sales forces, ISVs, financial institutions and other strategic partners in the form of joint venture alliances, revenue sharing alliances and referral agreements. Merchants, financial institutions and distribution partners in the Acceptance segment are frequently clients of our other segments. The businesses in our Fintech segment provide financial institutions around the world with the technology solutions they need to run their operations, including products and services that enable financial institutions to process customer deposit and loan accounts and manage an institutions general ledger and central information files. As a complement to the core account processing functionality, the Fintech segment businesses also provide digital banking, financial and risk management, professional services and consulting, check processing, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Certain of the businesses in the Fintech segment provide products or services to corporate clients to facilitate the management of financial processes and transactions. Many of the products and services offered in the Fintech segment are integrated with products and services provided by our other segments. The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and corporate and public sector clients with the products and services required to process digital payment transactions. This includes card transactions such as debit, credit and prepaid card processing and services; a range of network services; security and fraud protection products; and card production and print services. In addition, the Payments segment businesses offer non-card digital payment software and services, including bill payment, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payments, electronic billing, and security and fraud protection products. Clients of the Payments segment businesses reflect a wide range of industries around the world, including merchants, distribution partners and financial institution customers in our other segments. Corporate and Other supports the reportable segments described above, and consists of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when we evaluate segment performance, such as gains or losses on sales of businesses, certain assets or investments; costs associated with acquisition and divestiture activity; certain services revenue associated with various dispositions; and our Output Solutions postage reimbursements. We are effecting changes in our business designed to further enhance operational performance in the delivery of our integrated portfolio of products and solutions to our financial institution clients. As a result, we expect to realign our reportable segments to correspond with these organizational changes, which we expect to be completed effective for the quarter ending March 31, 2024. We continue to allocate resources and assess performance based on the current reportable segment structure. Acquisitions and Dispositions We frequently review our businesses to ensure we have the necessary assets to execute our strategy. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale that enables competition and operational efficiency; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial 27 Table of Contents strategies. The results of operations for the following acquired and divested businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition and through the respective dates of disposition. Acquisitions of Businesses On October 9, 2023, we acquired Skytef Soluces em Captura de Transaes Ltda (Skytef), a distributor for ISV partners and merchants of our Electronic Funds Transfer payments software. Skytef is included within the Acceptance segment and expands our distribution network and POS applications. On November 1, 2023, we acquired Sled S.A. (Sled), a provider of instant payment solutions. Sled is included within the Acceptance segment and expands our direct payment service capabilities. We acquired these businesses in Latin America for an aggregate purchase price, including hold-backs, of approximately $17 million. On December 29, 2022, we acquired OrangeData S.A. (Yacar), an Argentina-based payment service provider that enables customers to transact at merchant locations using QR codes. Yacar is included within the Acceptance segment and enhances our instant payment transaction capabilities. On December 20, 2022, we acquired Merchant One, Inc. (Merchant One), an independent sales organization (ISO) focused on acquiring merchants in the restaurant, retail and e-commerce industries using an innovative mix of direct and digital marketing strategies. Merchant One is included within the Acceptance segment and enhances our merchant distribution and sales force channels. On September 1, 2022, we acquired NexTable, Inc. (NexTable), a provider of cloud-based reservation and table management solutions for restaurants. NexTable is included within the Acceptance segment and expands our end-to-end restaurant solutions. On June 1, 2022, we acquired The LR2 Group, LLC (City POS), an ISO that promotes payment processing services and facilitates the sale of POS equipment for merchants. City POS is included within the Acceptance segment and expands our merchant services business. On April 1, 2022, we acquired the remaining majority controlling ownership interest in Finxact, Inc. (Finxact), a developer of cloud-native banking solutions powering digital transformation throughout the financial services sector. Finxact is included within the Fintech segment and advances our digital banking strategy, expanding our account processing, digital and payments solutions. We acquired these businesses in 2022 for an aggregate purchase price of $994 million, net of $28 million of acquired cash, and including earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $6 million. Dispositions of Businesses On July 25, 2023, we sold our financial reconciliation business, which was reported within the Fintech segment, for cash proceeds of $235 million. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $172 million on the sale during the year ended December 31, 2023. On October 17, 2022, we sold Fiserv Costa Rica, S.A. and our Systems Integration Services (SIS) operations, which provides information technology engineering services in the United States of America (U.S.) and India, to a single buyer. Fiserv Costa Rica, S.A. and SIS were reported primarily within the Fintech segment. On September 30, 2022, we sold our Korea operations, which were reported within the Acceptance segment. We sold these operations in 2022 for total consideration of $99 million and recognized an aggregate net pre-tax loss on the sales of $83 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized a pre-tax loss of $3 million associated with final working capital adjustments related to the disposition of Fiserv Costa Rica, S.A. Other Transactions On September 25, 2023, we acquired the remaining 49% ownership interest in European Merchant Services B.V., a Netherlands-based merchant acceptance business, for $56 million. We previously held a majority controlling financial interest in this subsidiary, which continues to be consolidated and reported within the Acceptance segment. Effective March 2022, we mutually agreed with a minority partner to terminate one of our merchant alliance joint ventures. In conjunction with such termination, the joint venture minority partner elected to exercise its option to purchase certain additional merchant contracts of the joint venture for $175 million, resulting in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $137 million during the year ended December 31, 2022. Enterprise Priorities We aspire to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on driving growth and creating value by assembling a high-performing and diverse team, integrating our solutions, delivering operational excellence, allocating capital in a disciplined manner, including share repurchase and merger and acquisition activity, and delivering breakthrough innovation. Our long-term priorities are to meet our financial commitments; continue to build high-quality revenue; deepen client relationships with an emphasis on digital solutions and value-added services; deliver innovation 28 Table of Contents and integration enabling differentiated value for our clients; and generate integration value, including cost and revenue synergies from acquisitions. Industry Trends The global payments landscape continues to evolve, with rapidly advancing technologies and a steady expansion of digital payments, e-commerce and real-time payments infrastructure. Because of this growth, competition also continues to intensify. Business and consumer expectations continue to rise, with a focus on speed, convenience, choice and security. To meet these expectations, payments companies are focused on modernizing their technology, expanding the use of data and enhancing the customer experience. Merchants The rapid growth in and globalization of mobile and e-commerce, driven by consumers desire for simpler, more efficient shopping experiences, has created an opportunity for merchants to reach consumers nearly anywhere, through any device, which often requires a merchant acquiring provider to enable and optimize the acceptance of payments. Merchants are demanding simpler, integrated and flexible systems to enable them to serve customers and help manage cash flow and everyday business operations. When combined with the ever-increasing ways a consumer can pay for goods and services, merchants have sought modern end-to-end solutions throughout their growth lifecycle to streamline the complexity. Furthermore, merchants can now search, discover, compare, purchase and even install a new system through direct, digital-only experiences. This direct, digital-only channel is a source of new merchant acquisition opportunities, especially with respect to smaller merchants. Additionally, there are numerous software-as-a-service (SaaS) solution providers in the industry, many of which have chosen to integrate merchant acquiring into their software as a way to generate revenue from existing client relationships. Such providers are independent software vendors, typically referred to as ISVs, and we believe there are thousands of these potential distribution partnership opportunities to cross-sell multiple value-added solutions available to us. We believe that our merchant acquiring products and solutions create compelling value propositions for merchant clients of all sizes, from small and mid-sized businesses to medium-sized regional businesses to global enterprise merchants. The depth and breadth of our omnichannel solutions, and flexibility to serve clients across various channels and geographies, drives higher product attach rates with new and existing clients across all verticals. Furthermore, we believe that our strength in distribution, our progress growing software and services, and our value-based pricing as we continue to invest in our operating systems, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Financial Institutions and Other Financial Technology Providers Financial services providers regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, risk management, lending and investment products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions and other financial technology providers continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving global regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. In addition, the focus on the customer experience, including through mobile and online engagement, by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. Financial institutions must now be able to serve their customers with tailored solutions, delivered how and when those customers want. This requires financial institutions to not only process their transactions, but to integrate their products and services to give customers easy access to such integrated solutions, when they need it. Financial institutions are striving for this single, integrated view of a customers activity. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. We have invested in integrating our platforms and value-added solutions to make it easy for a client to buy across our full product suite. We expect that financial institutions and other financial technology providers will continue to invest significant capital to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environmental shift from traditional to digital banking. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including a unified, seamless customer experience across mobile and online channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. 29 Table of Contents Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations transfer accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we typically receive a contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. We believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Recent Market Conditions Global macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation, bank failures, disruptions in the global supply chain, changes in consumer spending, the effects of international hostilities and regulations restricting trade or impacting our ability to offer products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While bank failures in early 2023 created uncertainty in the global financial markets, they did not have a material impact on our operating results. However, future bank failures could impact our receivable collections and cash flows or affect our ability to find merchant alliance partners. In addition, in recent years, we have observed increased shortages and delays in the global supply chain for components and inputs necessary to our businesses, such as point-of-sale devices, semiconductors, paper and plastic, and may experience difficulty procuring those components and inputs in the future on a timely basis or at historical prices. Personal consumption and consumer savings growth in the U.S. are expected to be lower in 2024, which may also negatively impact our business and financial results. We actively monitor and manage our business in response to these unpredictable geopolitical and market conditions, as they may adversely impact our operations and financial results. In addition, our operating results in certain foreign countries in which we operate may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, British Pound Sterling and Argentine Peso. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies in countries in which we operate would negatively impact our revenue and earnings. We also have exposure to risks related to currency devaluation in certain countries, which may negatively impact our international operating results if there is a prolonged devaluation of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar or if the economic conditions in these countries decline. While the majority of our revenue is earned domestically, we actively monitor the foreign exchange rate environment in an effort to manage these risks. The operations of our Argentina subsidiary are experiencing higher interest rates and higher inflation as compared to historical averages. We expect the anticipated benefits in 2024 of higher transitory revenue from above-average interest and inflation may be offset in whole or in part by foreign currency exchange losses related to a significant devaluation of the Argentine Peso. For discussion of risks related to potential impacts of supply chain, geopolitical and macroeconomic challenges on our business, results of operations and financial condition, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors. For managements assessment of market risks, including interest rate and foreign currency risks, see Part II.