ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements This quarterly report contains forward-looking statements intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as believes, anticipates, expects, could, should or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. The factors that may affect our results include, among others: the possibility that Fiserv and First Data Corporation may be unable to achieve expected synergies and operating efficiencies from the proposed merger within the expected time frames or at all or to successfully integrate the operations of First Data Corporation into those of Fiserv; such integration may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected; revenues following the transaction may be lower than expected, including for possible reasons such as unexpected costs, charges or expenses resulting from the transaction; operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction; the retention of certain key employees; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; the outcome of any legal proceedings that may be instituted against Fiserv, First Data Corporation and others related to the merger agreement; unforeseen risks relating to liabilities of Fiserv or First Data Corporation may exist; the conditions to the completion of the transaction may not be satisfied, or the regulatory approvals required for the transaction may not be obtained on the terms expected or on the anticipated schedule; the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the transaction, including the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to any financing arrangements entered into in connection with the transaction; the parties ability to meet expectations regarding the timing, completion and accounting and tax treatments of the transaction. Fiserv and First Data Corporation are subject to, among other matters, changes in customer demand for their products and services; pricing and other actions by competitors; general changes in local, regional, national and international economic conditions and the impact they may have on Fiserv and First Data Corporation and their customers and Fiservs and First Data Corporations assessment of that impact; rapid technological developments and changes, and the ability of Fiservs and First Data Corporations technology to keep pace with a rapidly evolving marketplace; the impact of a security breach or operational failure on Fiservs and First Data Corporations business; the effect of proposed and enacted legislative and regulatory actions in the United States and internationally affecting the financial services industry as a whole and/or Fiserv and First Data Corporation and their subsidiaries individually or collectively; regulatory supervision and oversight, and Fiservs and First Data Corporations ability to comply with government regulations; the impact of Fiservs and First Data Corporations strategic initiatives; Fiservs and First Data Corporations ability to continue to introduce competitive new products and services on a timely, cost-effective basis; the ability to contain costs and expenses; the protection and validity of intellectual property rights; the outcome of pending and future litigation and governmental proceedings; acts of war and terrorism; and other factors identified in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and in other documents that we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Our discussion is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in critical accounting policies and estimates. This section contains a discussion of changes since our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 in the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying unaudited consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the three months ended March 31, 2019 to the comparable period in 2018 . 18 Table of Contents Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt as of March 31, 2019 . Overview Company Background We are a leading global provider of financial services technology. We provide account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. We serve over 12,000 clients worldwide, including banks, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, billers, retailers, and merchants. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of three to five years and high renewal rates. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are principally located in the United States and are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products (Payments) segment and the Financial Institution Services (Financial) segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, payments infrastructure services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides financial institutions with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of intercompany eliminations, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance, such as gains on sales of businesses and associated transition services. Acquisitions and Dispositions We frequently review our portfolio to ensure we have the right set of businesses to execute on our strategy. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. On October 31, 2018, we acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and Money Pass surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $660 million , including post-closing working capital adjustments, estimated contingent consideration related to earn-out provisions and future payments under a transition services agreement in excess of estimated fair value. This acquisition, included within the Payments segment, deepens our presence in debit card processing, broadens our client reach and scale, and provides new solutions to enhance the value proposition for our existing debit solution clients. On January 16, 2019, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire First Data Corporation (First Data) in an all-stock transaction for an equity value of approximately $22 billion as of the announcement. The transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. First Data is a global leader in commerce-enabling technology and solutions for merchants, financial institutions, and card issuers. In March 2018, we sold a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, which was reported within the Financial segment, retaining 45% ownership interests in two joint ventures (the Lending Joint Ventures). In conjunction with this transaction, we entered into transition services agreements to provide, at fair value, various administration, business process outsourcing, technical and data center related services for defined periods to the Lending Joint Ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. Enterprise Priorities We continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives to move money and information in a way that moves the world. These strategic initiatives include active portfolio management of our businesses, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. Our key enterprise priorities for 2019 are to: (i) continue to build high-quality revenue while meeting our earnings goals; (ii) enhance client relationships with an emphasis on digital and payment solutions; 19 Table of Contents and (iii) deliver innovation and integration which enables differentiated value for our clients. We also expect to devote significant resources to completing the First Data merger and, subject to closing, to integrating First Data into our operations. Industry Trends The market for products and services offered by financial institutions continues to evolve rapidly. The traditional financial industry and other market entrants regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, risk management, lending, and investment products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. For example, legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has generated, and may continue to generate, new regulations impacting the financial industry. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include electronic payments and delivery methods such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as digital channels. The focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes in an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through digital channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. In addition to the trends described above, the financial institutions marketplace has experienced change in composition as well. During the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we receive a contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. These fees can vary from period to period. Our revenue is diversified, and we have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size and business model, with our 50 largest financial institution clients representing less than 25% of our annual revenue. Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has also reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Changes in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. In our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 , we identified our critical accounting policies and estimates. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, including for recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 . 20 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to year. This information should be read together with the unaudited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Percentage of Revenue (1) Increase (Decrease) (In millions) 2019 2018 $ % Revenue: Processing and services $ 1,293 $ 1,238 86.1 % 86.0 % $ 55 4 % Product 209 202 13.9 % 14.0 % 7 3 % Total revenue 1,502 1,440 100.0 % 100.0 % 62 4 % Expenses: Cost of processing and services 624 568 48.3 % 45.9 % 56 10 % Cost of product 174 191 83.3 % 94.6 % (17 ) (9 )% Sub-total 798 759 53.1 % 52.7 % 39 5 % Selling, general and administrative 341 305 22.7 % 21.2 % 36 12 % Gain on sale of business (10 ) (232 ) (0.7 )% (16.1 )% 222 96 % Total expenses 1,129 832 75.2 % 57.8 % 297 36 % Operating income 373 608 24.8 % 42.2 % (235 ) (39 )% Interest expense (59 ) (45 ) (3.9 )% (3.1 )% 14 31 % Debt financing activities (59 ) (3.9 )% 59 n/m Non-operating income 3 0.2 % 3 n/m Income before income taxes and loss from investments in unconsolidated affiliates $ 258 $ 563 17.2 % 39.1 % $ (305 ) (54 )% (1) Percentage of revenue is calculated as the relevant revenue, expense, income or loss amount divided by total revenue, except for cost of processing and services and cost of product amounts which are divided by the related component of revenue. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) Payments Financial Corporate and Other Total Total revenue: 2019 $ 914 $ 598 $ (10 ) $ 1,502 2018 842 616 (18 ) 1,440 Revenue growth $ 72 $ (18 ) $ 8 $ 62 Revenue growth percentage 9 % (3 )% 4 % Operating income: 2019 $ 287 $ 199 $ (113 ) $ 373 2018 271 202 135 608 Operating income growth $ 16 $ (3 ) $ (248 ) $ (235 ) Operating income growth percentage 6 % (1 )% (39 )% Operating margin: 2019 31.4 % 33.3 % 24.8 % 2018 32.2 % 32.8 % 42.2 % Operating margin growth (1) (80 ) bps 50 bps (1,740 ) bps ______________________ (1) Represents the basis point growth or decline in operating margin. 21 Table of Contents Total Revenue Total revenue increased $62 million , or 4% , in the first quarter of 2019 compared to the first quarter of 2018. Revenue in our Payments segment increased $72 million , or 9% , during the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 . Revenue from the acquired Elan business contributed 5.5% to Payments segment revenue growth in 2019 . The remaining revenue growth in our Payments segment in the first quarter of 2019 was driven by growth in our recurring revenue businesses, with our electronic payments, card services and biller solutions businesses each contributing approximately 1% to Payments segment revenue growth. Revenue in our Financial segment decreased $18 million , or 3% , during the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 . The Financial segment revenue decline was attributable to the disposition of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business in late March 2018, which reduced Financial segment revenue growth by 9% in the first quarter of 2019 . Partially offsetting this decline, our bank processing business contributed 4% revenue growth to the Financial segment, attributed equally to an increase in account processing and software license revenue. Revenue at Corporate and Other increased $8 million during the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 primarily due to transition services revenue from the Lending Joint Ventures. Total Expenses Total expenses increased $297 million , or 36% , and total expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 75.2% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 57.8% in the first quarter of 2018. Total expenses and total expenses as a percentage of total revenue were reduced by gains of $10 million and $232 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018 , respectively, from the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue increased to 48.3% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 45.9% in the first quarter of 2018 . Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue increased by 60 basis points from our Elan acquisition and 70 basis points as a result of expenses shifting from cost of product to cost of processing and services as financial institutions continue to move from in-house technology to outsourced solutions. The remaining increase was primarily driven by growth-focused investments. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue decreased to 83.3% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 94.6% in the first quarter of 2018 . Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in the first quarter of 2019 was favorably impacted by approximately 400 basis points as a result of expenses shifting from cost of product to cost of processing and services as financial institutions continue to move from in-house technology to outsourced solutions. The remaining reduction in cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in the first quarter of 2019 was attributable to product mix, including a reduction of approximately 450 basis points from an increase in higher-margin software license revenue. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue increased to 22.7% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 21.2% in the first quarter of 2018 . The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue in the first quarter of 2019 was primarily due to increased costs associated with the announced merger agreement to acquire First Data. The gains on sale of businesses of $10 million and $232 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, resulted from the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, including contingent consideration received in 2019. Operating Income and Operating Margin Total operating income decreased $235 million , or 39% , in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018. Total operating margin decreased to 24.8% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 42.2% in 2018. Operating income in our Payments segment increased $16 million , or 6% , and operating margin decreased 80 basis points to 31.4% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 . The reduction in the Payment segment operating margin was primarily attributable to additional investments to support client service and business growth. In addition, the Payments segment operating margin was reduced by 20 basis points from our Elan acquisition. Operating income in our Financial segment decreased $3 million , or 1% , and operating margin increased 50 basis points to 33.3% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 . The improvement in the Financial segment operating margin was primarily attributable to higher-margin software license revenue growth, which positively impacted Financial segment operating margin by approximately 70 basis points. Financial segment operating margin favorability was partially offset by growth-focused investments in our account processing businesses. 22 Table of Contents Corporate and Other reported an operating loss of $113 million in the first quarter of 2019 compared to operating income of $135 million in the first quarter of 2018. Corporate and Other was favorably impacted by gains of $10 million and $232 million in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018, respectively, from the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. In addition, Corporate and Other includes acquisition costs of $23 million in the first quarter of 2019 related to the announced merger agreement to acquire First Data. Interest Expense Interest expense increased $14 million , or 31% in the first quarter of 2019 compared to 2018 , primarily attributable to the September 2018 issuance of $2.0 billion of fixed-rate senior notes. Debt Financing Activities In connection with the definitive merger agreement on January 16, 2019 to acquire First Data, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter providing a 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $17.0 billion for the purpose of refinancing certain indebtedness of First Data on the closing date of the acquisition. We recorded $59 million of expense in the first quarter of 2019 associated with such bridge term loan facility. See below under First Data Acquisition Financing for a description of our planned financing to fund the First Data acquisition. Non-Operating Income Non-operating income in the first quarter of 2019 includes $2 million of interest income and $1 million related to the fulfillment of our stand-ready obligations to perform over the term of the Lending Joint Ventures debt guarantees and the associated release from risk. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision as a percentage of income before loss from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was 11.9% and 24.9% in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The rate in the first quarter of 2019 includes discrete benefits due to a loss from subsidiary restructuring. The rate in the first quarter of 2018 included $78 million of income tax expense associated with the $232 million gain on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Loss from Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Our share of net loss from the Lending Joint Ventures is reported as loss from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and the related tax benefit is reported within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of income. Loss from investments in unconsolidated affiliates, including acquired intangible asset amortization, was $2 million in the first quarter of 2019 . Net Income Per Share Diluted Net income per share-diluted was $0.56 and $1.00 in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Net income per share-diluted in the first quarter of 2019 included expenses of $0.16 per share related to the previously announced merger agreement to acquire First Data. Net income per share-diluted was favorably impacted in the first quarter of 2018 by a gain of $0.37 per share on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets reduced net income per share-diluted by $0.09 and $0.07 per share in the first quarter of 2019 and 2018 , respectively. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs in the ordinary course of business are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) fund capital expenditures and operating lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of $452 million and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $940 million at March 31, 2019 . See below under First Data Acquisition Financing for a description of our planned financing to fund the First Data acquisition. The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Three Months Ended March 31, Increase (Decrease) (In millions) 2019 2018 $ % Net income $ 225 $ 423 $ (198 ) Depreciation and amortization 205 134 71 Share-based compensation 19 19 Deferred income taxes 8 77 (69 ) Gain on sale of business (10 ) (232 ) 222 Loss from investments in unconsolidated affiliates 2 2 Net changes in working capital and other (76 ) (49 ) (27 ) Operating cash flow $ 373 $ 372 $ 1 n/m Capital expenditures $ 98 $ 77 $ 21 27 % Our net cash provided by operating activities, or operating cash flow, was $373 million in the first three months of 2019 , up slightly from the $372 million in the first three months of 2018 . Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases (after the closing of the First Data acquisition), and acquisitions, and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately 7% and 5% of our total revenue in the first three months of 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Share Repurchases We purchased $120 million and $398 million of our common stock during the first three months of 2019 and 2018 , respectively. We deferred share repurchases as of January 16, 2019 until the close of the First Data acquisition, which is expected to occur during the second half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. As of March 31, 2019 , we had approximately 24.3 million shares remaining under our current repurchase authorizations. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans. Acquisitions and Dispositions On October 31, 2018, we acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and Money Pass surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $660 million including post-closing working capital adjustments, estimated contingent consideration related to earn-out provisions and future payments under a transition services agreement in excess of fair value. We funded this acquisition by utilizing existing availability under our revolving credit facility. On January 16, 2019, we announced that we had entered into a definitive merger agreement to acquire First Data in an all-stock transaction for an equity value of approximately $22 billion as of the announcement. The transaction is expected to close during the second half of 2019, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals. First Data is a global leader in commerce-enabling technology and solutions for merchants, financial institutions, and card issuers. In March 2018, we sold a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business, retaining 45% ownership interests in two joint ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. In addition, in January 2018, we completed the sale of the retail voucher business acquired in our 2017 acquisition of Monitise for proceeds of 37 million ($50 million). 24 Table of Contents Indebtedness (In millions) March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 Revolving credit facility $ 1,039 $ 1,129 2.7% senior notes due 2020 850 850 4.75% senior notes due 2021 400 400 3.5% senior notes due 2022 700 700 3.8% senior notes due 2023 1,000 1,000 3.85% senior notes due 2025 900 900 4.2% senior notes due 2028 1,000 1,000 Unamortized discount and unamortized deferred financing costs (28 ) (29 ) Other borrowings 14 9 Total debt (including current maturities) $ 5,875 $ 5,959 At March 31, 2019 , our debt consisted primarily of $4.9 billion of fixed-rate senior notes and $1.0 billion of revolving credit facility borrowings. Interest on our senior notes is paid semi-annually. During the first three months of 2019 , we were in compliance with all financial debt covenants. Variable Rate Debt We maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks. Outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate was 3.51% on the revolving credit facility borrowings at March 31, 2019. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements on the revolving credit facility, which matures in September 2023. On February 6, 2019, we entered into an amendment to the amended and restated revolving credit facility to (i) amend the maximum leverage ratio covenant to permit us to elect to increase the permitted maximum leverage ratio from three and one-half times our consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash charges and expenses and certain other adjustments (EBITDA) to either four times or four and one-half times our EBITDA for a specified period following certain acquisitions and (ii) permit us to make drawings under the revolving credit facility on the closing date of our acquisition of First Data subject to only limited conditions. On February 15, 2019, we entered into a second amendment to our existing revolving credit agreement in order to increase the aggregate commitments available thereunder by $1.5 billion and to make certain additional amendments to facilitate the operation of the combined business following the acquisition of First Data. The increased commitments and additional amendments will become effective upon the satisfaction or waiver of conditions that are substantially similar to the conditions to funding under the term loan facility described below. First Data Acquisition Financing On January 16, 2019, in connection with the definitive merger agreement to acquire First Data, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter pursuant to which a group of financial institutions committed to provide a 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $17.0 billion for the purpose of refinancing certain indebtedness of First Data and its subsidiaries on the closing date of the merger, making cash payments in lieu of fractional shares as part of the merger consideration, and paying fees and expenses related to the merger, the refinancing and the related transactions. There are no outstanding borrowings under the bridge term loan facility at March 31, 2019 . On February 15, 2019, we entered into a new term loan credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions pursuant to which such financial institutions have committed to provide us with a senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $5.0 billion , consisting of $1.5 billion in commitments to provide loans with a three -year maturity and $3.5 billion in commitments to provide loans with a five -year maturity. The aggregate principal amount of the commitments under the term loan credit agreement have replaced a corresponding amount of the commitments in respect of the bridge facility in accordance with the terms of the bridge facility commitment letter. As a result, there are now $12.0 billion in bridge facility commitments remaining. We expect to replace these remaining commitments with permanent financing in the form of the issuance of debt securities prior to the closing of the acquisition of First Data. The availability of loans under the term loan facility is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions that are substantially consistent with the conditions to the funding of the bridge facility, including (i) the closing of the acquisition substantially concurrently with the funding of such loans, (ii) the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to First Data 25 Table of Contents since January 16, 2019, (iii) the truth and accuracy in all material respects of certain representations and warranties, (iv) the receipt of certain certificates, and (v) the receipt of certain financial statements. Loans drawn under the term loan facility will be subject to amortization at an annual rate of 5% for the first two years and 7.5% thereafter (with loans outstanding under the five-year tranche subject to amortization at an annual rate of 10% after the fourth anniversary of the commencement of amortization), with accrued and unpaid amortization amounts required to be paid on the last business day in December of each year. Borrowings under the term loan facility will bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR or on a base rate plus, in each case, a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. We are also required to pay a ticking fee that will accrue on the aggregate undrawn commitments under the term loan facility at a per annum rate based upon our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The term loan credit agreement contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default, that are substantially the same as those set forth in our existing revolving credit facility, as amended as described above. In March 2019, we entered into treasury lock agreements (Treasury Locks), designated as cash flow hedges, in the aggregate notional amount of $5 billion to manage exposure to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates in anticipation of the possible issuance of fixed rate debt in connection with the refinancing of certain indebtedness of First Data and its subsidiaries. The fair value of the Treasury Locks, which totaled $35 million at March 31, 2019 was recorded primarily within accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes. A 10 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would impact the fair value of the Treasury Locks by approximately $50 million.