Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic can be found under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Strategy Our aspiration is to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework: Client Relationship Value . We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products and services; introducing new products and services that are aligned with market needs; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support. Innovation . We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry and enable our clients to deliver best-in-class results. Operational Effectiveness and Integration of First Data . We believe we can further improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale and by effectively integrating the operations of First Data. By streamlining our overall cost structure, including the rationalization of duplicate costs, we expect to meet or exceed planned cost synergies and improve the quality of products and services that we provide to our clients. Portfolio Management . We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. 6 Table of Contents Capital Discipline . We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions. Servicing the Market The financial technology industry is highly dynamic, with new innovations entering the market and driving the expectations of our clients globally. The markets for our solutions have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on quality, security, service reliability, timely introduction of new capabilities and features, flexibility and value. This requires us to continue our strong emphasis on solution development to meet and exceed the specific needs of our clients. We believe that our financial strength and decades of specialized market knowledge enable us to support our clients to meet their changing preferences. In addition, we believe that our focus on quality, innovation, client service and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients. Product Development To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. Our development and technology operations apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our products and solutions are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific merchant and financial services environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create efficiencies, and we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients. Resources Our business depends on a variety of resources to operate including products and services provided to us by third parties. For example, we rely on our human capital resources for product development (including product design and coding), sales, operations (including customer service, technology support, security and compliance) and management; access to financial and telecommunication networks; computers, servers, mainframes and other data processing equipment; and Clover POS devices. We periodically review our resource requirements and sources, as well as our relationships with key vendors, to best meet the needs of our business including global sourcing efforts and alternate supplier resourcing. More information regarding our human capital resources can be found below under Human Capital. We believe we have access to the resources necessary for our current business needs. Intellectual Property We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we use a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices, employee confidentiality and assignment agreements, and third-party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. Our patents cover innovations relating to numerous financial software and hardware products and services, and we continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our ongoing innovations. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business. Competition The market for technology products and services in the industries we serve is fragmented, highly competitive, and served by a multitude of large and small firms. Our principal competitors include other vendors and providers of financial services technology and payment systems, data processing affiliates of large companies, processing centers owned or operated as user cooperatives, financial institutions, merchant acquirers, ISOs, ISVs, payments companies and payment network operators. Our competitors also include global and local IT product and services companies and payment service providers and processors. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand or consolidate their product lines and services. Some of these competitors possess substantial financial, sales and marketing resources and can compete with us in various ways, including through the use of integrated product offerings and through pricing and long-standing relationships. Depending on the product or service, competitive factors may include quality, security, innovation, breadth or novelty of features and functionality, client satisfaction, market opportunity, integration, agility, global reach, multiple distribution channels, service reliability and performance standards, timely introduction of new products and features, platform scalability and flexibility, and value. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. Additional information about competition in our segments is provided below. 7 Table of Contents Acceptance Our Acceptance segment competes with merchant acquirers, including Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. (FIS), Global Payments Inc. (Global Payments), Nexi Payments S.p.A. and Wordline SA (Worldline), as well as with financial institutions that provide acquiring and processing services to businesses on their own, such as Paymentech, LLC, a subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase & Co.; Elavon Inc., a subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp; Barclaycard, a division of Barclays bank; and Bank of America Corporation. In many cases, our alliance and commercial partners, such as ISOs and ISVs, compete against each other. We also compete with merchant services providers like Square, Inc., Adyen N.V. and Stripe, Inc., and in Europe, our Acceptance segment also competes with a growing number of local providers who offer their services in multiple markets in the region. In addition, payment networks, such as Visa Inc. (Visa), Mastercard Incorporated (Mastercard) and American Express Company, and large technology, media and other providers are increasingly offering products and services that compete with our suite of merchant acquiring solutions. Fintech Our products and services in the Fintech segment compete with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. Existing and potential financial institution clients could also develop and use their own in-house systems. In addition, we compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including Computer Services, Inc., Finastra Limited, FIS, Infosys Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Jack Henry and Associates Inc. (Jack Henry), NCR Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE, Global Payments, Temenos AG, Q2 Holdings, Inc. (Q2) and nCino, Inc. Payments The businesses in our Payments segment primarily compete with businesses that offer consumer payment solutions and a number of payment and card issuer processors, including ACI Worldwide, Inc., FIS, Jack Henry, Mastercard, Paymentus Corporation, PayPal Holdings, Inc., Q2, R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company, Global Payments, Visa, The Western Union Company and Wordline. In addition to traditional payments competitors, large technology, media and other emerging financial technology providers are increasingly seeking to provide alternative payment and financing solutions. Existing and potential financial institution and other corporate clients could also develop and use their own in-house systems or custom-designed solutions instead of our products and services. Government Regulation Our operations, and the products and services that we offer, are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulation, as well as regulation outside the U.S., and to other rules, such as those promulgated by various payment networks and banking authorities. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of service and/or the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. In addition, we may be required, among other things, to make significant additional investments to comply with such rules and regulations, to modify our products or services or the manner in which they are provided, or to limit or change the amount or types of revenue we are able to generate. The Dodd-Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) in the U.S. resulted in significant changes to the regulation of the financial services industry. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial laws, some of which apply to products and services offered by our clients. The CFPB conducts direct examinations of, and has issued guidance that applies to, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. The Dodd-Frank Act also: caps debit interchange rates for certain card issuers; prohibits debit payment card networks from restricting card issuers from contracting with other payment card networks; prohibits card issuers and payment networks from restricting the ability of merchants to direct the routing of debit card transactions; requires all debit card issuers in the U.S. to participate in at least two unaffiliated debit payment card networks; and generally prohibits network exclusivity arrangements for prepaid card and healthcare debit card issuers. These regulations impact our card processing businesses and our clients ability to generate revenue. Financial Institution Regulations. Because a number of our businesses provide data processing services for financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), which is a formal interagency body empowered to examine significant service providers to financial institutions. The member agencies of the FFIEC include the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, and the CFPB. We are also subject to examination by the first three of these agencies which refer to themselves as the Federal Banking Agencies when acting together. A subsidiary that engages in 8 Table of Contents certain trust activities is subject to regulation, examination, and oversight by the Division of Banking of the Colorado Department. Under the Second Payment Services Directive (2015/2366/EC) in the European Union (E.U.) (PSD2), a number of our subsidiaries hold either payment institution licenses or electronic money licenses in the E.U. member states in which such subsidiaries do business. As payment institutions or electronic money institutions, those subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight in the applicable E.U. member states, which includes, among other obligations, a requirement to maintain specified regulatory capital. In addition, several subsidiaries outside of the U.S. provide services such as merchant terminal leasing, debit processing, acquiring, issuing, factoring and/or settlement that make them subject to regulation by financial services supervisory agencies, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom (U.K.), the Federal Financial Supervision Agency in Germany, the National Bank of Poland, the Reserve Bank of Australia, and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Association and Network Rules. We are subject to rules of Mastercard, Visa, INTERAC, PULSE and other payment networks. In order to provide processing services, a number of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and/or Mastercard as service providers for member institutions. A number of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are direct members or associate members of Visa and Mastercard for purposes of conducting merchant acquiring. Various subsidiaries are also processor level members of numerous debit and electronic benefits transaction networks or are otherwise subject to various network rules in connection with processing services and other services we provide. As such, we are subject to applicable card association, network and national scheme rules that could subject us to fines or penalties. We are subject to network operating rules promulgated by Nacha relating to payment transactions processed by us using the ACH network and to various federal and state laws regarding such operations, including laws pertaining to electronic benefits transactions. Privacy and Information Security Regulations. We provide services that are subject to various federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations, as well as association and network privacy rules, which govern, among other things, the collection, processing, storage, deletion, use and disclosure of personal information. These laws and rules contain a variety of obligations including the safeguarding of personal information, the provision of notices and use and disclosure rights. The regulations and rules are complex and evolving and can provide for significant penalties or the suspension or termination of our member registrations or certifications for non-compliance. In the U.S., we are subject to various federal and state privacy and security laws. The U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) requires financial institutions to explain their information sharing practices to their customers and to safeguard sensitive data. We are subject to the GLBA and have privacy and security obligations to our clients who are regulated by the GLBA. The U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), together with the HIPAA Privacy Rule, governs the use and disclosure of protected health information in healthcare treatment, payment and operations by covered entities. We have obligations under the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA), which gives California consumers more control over the personal information businesses hold about them, as both a business and as a service provider. We are also subject to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC) Act, which empowers the FTC to prohibit unfair and deceptive privacy practices. In addition to the FTC Act, the FTC is also responsible for overseeing and enforcing the privacy provisions over certain aspects of the GLBA and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), each of which is applicable to our businesses in certain circumstances. We are also subject to the separate security breach notification laws of each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In the E.U., we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a comprehensive approach to personal data protection with enforcement that can lead to penalties of up to the greater of twenty million Euro or four percent of a companys global revenue. With the U.K.s exit from the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union on December 31, 2020, there is uncertainty surrounding transfers of personal data from the E.U. to the U.K. There are currently transitional provisions in place stating that transfers of personal data from the E.U. to the U.K. will not be considered transfers of personal data to a third country for a transitional period of up to six months from January 1, 2021. If the transitional period ends without an appropriate resolution, transfers of personal data to the U.K. may be impacted. There are numerous additional privacy laws and regulations that apply to our businesses around the world which can provide for significant penalties. Some of these data protection laws, including the GDPR, restrict the international transfer of personal data absent lawfully recognized transfer mechanisms which can differ depending on the countries to which the data is being transferred. Money Transmission and Payment Instrument Licensing and Regulations. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing money transmission and the issuance and sale of payment instruments, including some of our prepaid products. In the U.S., most states license money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments. Many states exercise authority over the operations of our services related to money transmission and payment instruments and, as part of this authority, subject us to periodic examinations. Many states require money transmitters, issuers of payment instruments and 9 Table of Contents their agents to comply with federal and state anti-money laundering laws and regulations and often require the licensee to maintain certain levels of net worth. Credit Reporting and Debt Collections Regulations. TeleCheck, our check acceptance business, is subject to FCRA and various similar state laws. The collection business within our subsidiary TRS Recovery Services, Inc. (TRS) is subject to the U.S. federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and various similar state laws. TRS maintains licenses in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states. TeleCheck and TRS are also subject to regulation, supervision and examination from the CFPB. Additional regulations may be imposed in the future, including laws regulating activities with respect to current or emerging technology such as automated dialers or pre-recorded messaging or calls to cellular phones, which could impair the collection by TRS of returned checks and those purchased under TeleChecks guarantee services. Moreover, reducing or eliminating access to or the use of certain information or proscribing the maintenance or use of consumer databases could reduce the effectiveness of TeleChecks risk management tools or otherwise increase its costs of doing business. In addition, several of our subsidiaries are subject to comparable local laws regarding collection activities and obtaining credit reports and our U.K. subsidiary described above also holds FCA licenses for debt collection activities. Unfair Trade Practice Regulations. We and our clients are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices. Various regulatory enforcement agencies, including the FTC and state attorneys general, have authority to take action against parties that engage in unfair or deceptive trade practices or violate other laws, rules and regulations. If we process payments for a merchant or other client in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions and incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Bribery, and Sanctions Regulations. We are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act (the BSA). Among other things, the BSA requires money services businesses (such as money transmitters, issuers of money orders and official checks, and providers of prepaid access) to develop and implement anti-money laundering programs. Our acquiring businesses outside the U.S. are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the countries where they operate. Our Money Network Financial, LLC subsidiary provides prepaid access for various open loop prepaid programs for which it is the program manager and therefore must meet the requirements of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws outside of the U.S. such as the U.K. Bribery Act, that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures. The FCPA has a broad reach and requires maintenance of appropriate records and adequate internal controls to prevent and detect possible FCPA violations. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, specified countries, governments, individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Other group entities may be subject to additional local sanctions requirements in other relevant jurisdictions. Similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified in lists maintained by the country equivalents to OFAC lists in several other countries and require specific data retention obligations to be observed by intermediaries in the payment process. Our businesses in those jurisdictions are subject to those data retention obligations. Communications Laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws that govern telephone calls and the issuance of text messages to clients and consumers in the U.S. as well as to regulations that impose requirements on marketing emails sent to U.S residents. Our international subsidiaries are subject to equivalent laws in applicable jurisdictions. Indirect Regulatory Requirements. A number of our clients are subject to various regulations and compliance obligations that do not apply directly to us but impact the services that we provide to our clients. To remain competitive, we have expended, and expect to expend in the future, significant resources to develop and update our products and services to assist our clients to meet various compliance obligations. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients and their auditors. Human Capital As of December 31, 2020, we had over 44,000 employees worldwide, approximately 17,000 of whom were employed outside the U.S. Successful execution of our strategy depends on attracting, developing and retaining highly qualified talent at all levels of our organization. We do this by focusing on our commitment to diversity and inclusion and employee development, retention, engagement and well-being. 10 Table of Contents Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to cultivating a diverse, respectful and inclusive workplace. In 2020, we undertook a series of initiatives comprising our Forward Together plan to enhance our existing diversity and inclusion programs. Through this plan, we committed to: Improve diversity at all levels across the organization, including increasing the representation of women and minorities in leadership positions, requiring consideration of diverse candidates for senior leadership positions, dedicating talent acquisition resources focused on hiring diverse individuals and deepening relationships with historically Black colleges and universities, industry networks, and military and veterans organizations; Increase employee awareness through: education and participation in diversity and inclusion programs, such as inclusive leader assessment and coaching program to develop the competencies necessary to create an inclusive workplace; our Forward Together Accountability Pledge pursuant to which our senior leaders commit to advance our Forward Together plan; eight Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) across 10 countries for associates to connect, support each other and elevate their professional development; and a host of diversity and inclusion training courses available to all employees; Invest $50 million to support Black- and minority-owned small businesses through financial assistance, technology solutions, strategic partnership and subject matter expertise; and Strengthen partnerships with organizations focused on human rights, racial equity and social justice including work by our ERGs with community organizations and groups to provide mentorship opportunities and serve as force multipliers for talent acquisition, employee engagement and diversity efforts. Development and Retention We are committed to creating a high-performance culture that consistently delivers excellence for our clients and long-term value for our shareholders while providing a workplace experience for our employees that values leadership, innovation, diversity and collaboration. Our performance management process promotes differentiation based on contributions toward our strategic business objectives and overall success. Career development is an important part of our overall value proposition for employees. We provide employees with opportunities to grow, regardless of job level, within the organization including through targeted online learning, our Leading Women program designed to accelerate the professional growth of female top talent, our Leading Fiserv program designed to develop critical leadership skills for frontline managers, and our Vision to Results leadership program focused on driving our One Fiserv approach to enterprise goals. We also focus on internal mobility and redeployment to ensure we provide talented employees the best opportunity for internal success while retaining their skill sets. Engagement To assess employee engagement, we seek and collect employee feedback through our annual Your Voice employee engagement survey, distributed to all associates worldwide. The survey focuses on the following categories: Engagement; Manager Effectiveness; Client Experience; Trust; Diversity and Inclusion; Communication and Teamwork; and Well-Being. More than 90% of our associates responded to the survey in 2020. Our engagement scores improved over the prior year and were higher than the comparable average benchmarks, most landing in the top decile of companies surveyed. These results are particularly notable given that the survey was completed in the midst of driving a transformational corporate integration and the global COVID-19 pandemic, which manifested in most of our associates working remotely. In addition to assessing engagement, the survey results enable us to gain insight into employee perspectives and issues which we use to enhance processes, set priorities and respond quickly to associate concerns. Well-Being and Safety We are focused on delivering a comprehensive and competitive benefits offering as part of our total rewards strategy. We provide associates with access to a holistic suite of well-being programs and benefits focused on physical, financial, social and emotional resources. These programs are supported by complementary policies such as paid parental and military service leave policies. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a number of actions to protect the health, safety and well-being of our employees while continuing to serve our clients. These actions include, among others, requiring most of our employees to work 11 Table of Contents remotely, suspending non-essential travel, suspending all non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities and workspaces extensively and frequently, providing personal protective equipment to employees and requiring employees who must be present at our facilities to adhere to a variety of safety protocols. We expanded paid time-off for employees impacted by COVID-19, provided increased pay for certain employees involved in critical infrastructure who could not work remotely, and expanded our Fiserv Cares program to benefit employees in need around the world. We expect to continue such safety and wellness measures for the foreseeable future and may take further actions, or adapt these existing policies, as government authorities may require or recommend or as we may determine to be in the best interest of our employees, clients, vendors and shareholders. Available Information Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investors own internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Competitive and Business Risks We operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. Our principal competitors include other vendors and providers of financial services technology and payment systems, data processing affiliates of large companies, processing centers owned or operated as user cooperatives, financial institutions, independent sales organizations (ISOs), independent software vendors, payments companies and payment network operators. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. As a result, we may compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new technologies and well-funded competitors, including large technology, telecommunication, media and other companies not historically in the financial services and payments industries, start-ups and international providers of products and services similar to ours. In addition, participants in the financial services, payments and technology industries may merge, create joint ventures or engage in other business combinations, alliances and consolidations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to keep pace with technological change, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. We must anticipate and respond to these changes in order to remain competitive within our relevant markets. For example, our ability to provide innovative point-of-sale technology to our merchant clients could have an impact on our merchant acquiring business, and new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards related to tokenization or other safety, fraud prevention and security technologies. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, corporate and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. If we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance and compete effectively, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. 12 Table of Contents If we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services or to perform the services in-house. Some of our competitors may offer more attractive prices, features or other services that we do not offer, and some clients may desire to perform the services themselves. Larger clients may be able to seek lower prices from us when they renew or extend a contract or the clients business has significant volume changes. In addition, larger clients may reduce the services we provide if they decide to move services in-house. Further, our small merchant business clients may seek reduced fees due to pricing competition, their own financial condition, or pressures from their customers. On some occasions, these factors result in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends, in part, on our merchant relationships and alliances, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships and alliances, our business may be adversely affected. Under our alliance program, a bank or other institution forms an alliance with us, generally on an exclusive basis, either contractually or through a separate legal entity. Merchant contracts may be contributed to the alliance by us and/or the bank or institution. The banks and other institutions generally provide card association sponsorship, clearing and settlement services and typically act as a merchant referral source when the institution has an existing banking or other relationship with such merchant. We provide transaction processing and related functions to the alliance. Both we and our alliance partners may also provide management, sales, marketing and other administrative services. The alliance structure allows us to be the processor for multiple financial institutions, any one of which may be selected by the merchant as its bank partner. Our merchant acquiring business depends, in part, on our merchant relationships, alliances and other distribution channels. There can be no guarantee that we will achieve growth in our merchant relationships, alliances or other distribution channels. In addition, our contractual arrangements with merchants and merchant alliance partners are for fixed terms and may allow for early termination upon the occurrence of certain events. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our contractual arrangements with these merchants or merchant alliance partners on similar terms or at all. The loss of merchant relationships or alliance partners could negatively impact our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks, including the card networks which we own and operate, increase the processing and other fees (including what is commonly called interchange fees) that they charge. It is possible that competitive and other pressures will result in us absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, or not being able to increase our own fees, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin, limit our growth, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. Mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. Our alliance strategy could also be negatively affected by consolidations, especially where the financial institutions involved are committed to their internal merchant processing businesses that compete with us. It is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have an increased ability to negotiate terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational and Security Risks Security incidents or other technological risks involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could expose us to liability or damage our reputation. Our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our employees, our clients and their customers. Under the card network rules, various federal, state and international laws, and client contracts, we are responsible for information provided to us by financial institutions, merchants, ISOs, third-party service providers and others. The confidentiality of such sensitive business information and personal consumer information residing on 13 Table of Contents our systems is critical to our business. Any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients, partners or vendors. These incidents are often difficult to detect and are constantly evolving. We expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, and those of our clients, partners and vendors, through various means and with increasing sophistication. These events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we expect to continue to invest significant resources to maintain and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and that none of the events that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we cannot be certain that the security measures and procedures we have in place to detect security incidents and protect sensitive data, including protection against unauthorized access and use by our employees, will be successful or sufficient to counter all current and emerging technological risks and threats. The impact of a material event involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational failures and resulting interruptions in the implementation or availability of our products or services could harm our business and reputation. Our business depends heavily on the reliability of our processing and other systems. An operational failure and the resulting implementation delays or service interruption could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. An operational failure could involve the hardware, software, data, networks or systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and could be caused by our actions, the actions of third parties or events over which we may have limited or no control. Events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, pandemics, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. In the event of operational failures or damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully or quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets and data through our business continuity program. Implementation delays, interruptions of service or hardware device defects could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits, product recalls or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue, and significantly impact our clients businesses and the customers they serve. In addition, a significant implementation delay, interruption of service or product recall could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. As a provider of payments solutions and other financial services, clients, regulators and others may require specific business continuity and disaster recovery plans including frequent testing of such plans. Meeting these various requirements may require a significant investment of time and money. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions of operations of other participants in the global financial system could prevent us from delivering our products and services. The operations and systems of many participants in the global financial system are interconnected. Many of the transactions involving our products and services rely on multiple participants in the global financial system to move funds and communicate information to the next participant in the transaction chain. A disruption for any reason of the operations of a participant in the global financial system could impact our ability to obtain or provide information or cause funds to be moved in a manner to successfully deliver our products and services. Although we work with other participants to avoid any disruptions, there is no assurance that such efforts will be effective. Such a disruption could lead to our inability to deliver products and services, reputational damage, lost clients and revenue, loss of clients and their customers confidence, as well as additional costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide products and services and if we are unable to obtain such products or services in the future or if these third parties fail to perform these services adequately , our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties we do not control to provide us with products and services, including payment card networks, acquiring processors, payment card issuers, financial institutions and the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network which transmit transaction data, process chargebacks and refunds, and perform clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If, for example, such third parties stop providing clearing services or limit our volumes, we would need to find other financial institutions to provide those services. In the event these third parties fail to provide these services adequately or in a timely manner, including as a result of errors in their systems or events beyond their control, or refuse to provide these services on 14 Table of Contents terms acceptable to us or at all, and we are not able to find timely suitable alternatives, we may no longer be able to provide certain services to customers, which could expose us and our clients to information security, financial, compliance and reputational risks, among others, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to renew our existing contracts with key vendors and service providers, we might not be able to replace the related product or service at all or at the same cost, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. Further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. We may also experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems or with other programs used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients or client data, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. COVID-19 Pandemic Risks Our business has been, and is likely to continue to be, adversely impacted by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have taken actions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as imposing travel restrictions and bans, quarantines, social distancing guidelines, shelter-in-place or lock-down orders and other similar limitations. These measures have, among other matters, negatively impacted consumer and business spending and, as a result, our operating performance, primarily within our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses, which earn transaction-based fees. The pandemic may continue to negatively impact transaction volumes, create economic uncertainty and financial market volatility, reduce economic activity, increase unemployment and cause a decline in consumer and business confidence, and could in the future further negatively impact the demand for our products and services, including merchant acquiring and payment processing. Ultimately, the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future operational and financial performance will depend on, among other matters, the duration and intensity of the pandemic; the level of success of global vaccination efforts; governmental and private sector responses to the pandemic and the impact of such responses on us; and the impact of the pandemic on our employees, clients, vendors, operations and sales, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Additional factors that could negatively impact us include: Payment processing risks associated with disruptions to merchant activity and business failures including chargeback risk. As an unprecedented number of merchants have been required to suspend or terminate their operations, there may be an increase in consumer chargebacks associated with processed transactions that merchant clients have submitted but have not fulfilled. Merchants may be unable to fund these chargebacks, potentially resulting in losses to us; Client payment risks. Clients may require additional time to pay us or fail to pay us at all, which could significantly increase the amount of accounts receivable and require us to record additional allowances for doubtful accounts. If clients cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, we may experience lower revenue and earnings and have greater exposure to future transaction declines; Increased cyber and payment fraud risk, as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruption given increased online banking, e-commerce and other online activity; Disruption to our supply chain and third-party delivery service providers, including if the factories that manufacture our point-of-sale devices are temporarily closed or experience workforce shortages, if shipping services are interrupted or delayed, or if there are workforce shortages at our or third-party customer support, software development or technology hosting facilities; Increased risk of failing to meet client contractual obligations, including due to government orders or other restrictions that limit or prohibit us from providing client-facing services from regular service locations or the failure of our business continuity plans, which could cause loss of revenue, contractual penalties or potential legal disputes and associated costs; and Challenges to the availability and reliability of our solutions and services due to changes to normal operations, including the possibility of one or more clusters of COVID-19 cases occurring at our data, call or operations centers, 15 Table of Contents affecting our employees or affecting the systems or employees of our clients or other third parties on which we depend. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including requiring a majority of our employees to work remotely, suspending non-essential travel, suspending all non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities and workspaces extensively and frequently, providing personal protective equipment to associates and requiring employees who must be present at our facilities to adhere to a variety of safety protocols. We expect to continue such safety measures for the foreseeable future and may take further actions, or adapt these existing policies, as government authorities may require or recommend or as we may determine to be in the best interest of our employees, clients and vendors. Such measures may impact our productivity or effectiveness, and there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the risks to the health of our employees. Further, the ability of our employees to get to work has been disrupted across multiple locations, both with respect to their own offices and client sites, due among other things to government work and travel restrictions, including mandatory shutdowns. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, federal, state, local and foreign governments have issued emergency orders and a significant number of new laws and regulations in a short period of time. These actions have impacted our current operations, including with respect to collection and consumer credit reporting activities, and we have experienced an increased volume of client support requests because many of the new laws impact our clients. We could be required to expend additional resources and incur additional costs to address regulatory requirements applicable to us or our clients, and we may not have the capacity to implement necessary changes within the times prescribed by applicable laws. There could be government initiatives to reduce or eliminate payments, costs or fees to merchants, or fees or other sources of revenue to financial institutions. Regulations may be unclear, difficult to interpret or in conflict with other applicable regulations. As a result, we may have to make judgments about how to comply with these new laws and regulators may not ultimately agree with how we implement applicable regulations. Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new, varying or more restrictive laws and regulations by federal, state, local or foreign governments, may result in financial penalties, lawsuits, reputational harm or change the manner in which we or our clients currently conduct some aspects of our business. In addition, during times of economic stress, there tends to be greater regulatory and governmental scrutiny of actions taken in response to such stress and an increased risk of both governmental and third-party litigation. A lack of further recovery or deterioration in economic and market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic could negatively impact our ability to generate earnings and cash flows sufficient to service debt and meet lease and other obligations as they come due or to meet our financial debt covenants. The pandemic could also make obtaining financing more difficult or expensive, and our ability to access the long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms will depend on market conditions and the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the impacts the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to have, and, as a result, the ultimate impacts are highly uncertain and subject to change. The extent to which the pandemic or any resulting worsening of the global business and economic environment adversely impacts our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and are difficult to predict, including, but not limited to, the duration and intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the actions taken to contain or limit the pandemic, including whether vaccination efforts are successful, and how quickly and to what extent pre-pandemic economic and operating conditions can resume. These factors may remain prevalent for a significant period of time even after the pandemic subsides, including due to a continued or prolonged recession in the U.S. or other major economies. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, liquidity or financial condition and heighten or exacerbate risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Global Market Risks Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical and other risks associated with operations outside of the U.S. and, as we continue to expand internationally, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and may become more susceptible to these risks. We offer merchant acquiring, processing and issuing services outside of the U.S., including in the U.K., Germany, Argentina, India and Brazil. Our facilities outside of the U.S., and those of our suppliers and vendors, including manufacturing, customer support, software development and technology hosting facilities, are subject to risks, including natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, terrorism, war, political instability and other events outside of our or our suppliers control. As we expand internationally and grow our client base outside of the U.S., we may face challenges due to the presence of more established competitors and our lack of experience in such non-U.S. markets, and we may incur higher than anticipated costs. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with the international operation and expansion of our business, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. 16 Table of Contents The United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union Single Market and Customs Union as part of the process known as Brexit could adversely affect our results of operations. Effective December 31, 2020, the U.K. left the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union and also ceased to be subject to international agreements the E.U. is a party to. On December 24, 2020, the E.U. and the U.K. agreed to the terms of a trade and cooperation agreement which sets out the terms of their future relationship (the Trade Agreement). As a result, and subject to the terms of the Trade Agreement, the rules of the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union relating to the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital between the U.K. and the E.U. ended, and the E.U. and the U.K. formed two separate markets and two distinct regulatory and legal spaces. Brexit may, among other outcomes, and subject to the terms of the Trade Agreement, disrupt the free movement of goods, services, data and people between the U.K. and the E.U., undermine bilateral cooperation in key policy areas, and significantly disrupt trade between the U.K. and the E.U. In addition, Brexit may lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines, going forward and subject to the terms of the Trade Agreement, which E.U. laws and regulations to maintain and which to amend or replace. The effects of Brexit will depend in part on any agreements, in addition to the Trade Agreement, which the E.U. and the U.K. reach to allow the U.S. and the E.U. to retain access to each others markets in areas not covered by the Trade Agreement. The Trade Agreement offers U.K. and E.U. businesses preferential access to each others markets, ensuring imported goods will be free of tariffs and quotas. However, economic relations between the U.K. and the E.U. will now be on more restricted terms than existed previously. The Trade Agreement does not incorporate the full scope of the services sector, and businesses such as banking and finance face a more uncertain future. The U.K. and E.U. plan to put in place a regulatory dialogue on financial services based on a separate memorandum of understanding (MoU). Talks on the MoU are expected to begin by March 2021. At this time, we cannot predict the impact that the Trade Agreement and any future agreements on services, including the MoU, will have on our business and our clients, and it is possible that the terms of any new agreements (or a failure to reach such agreements) may adversely affect our operations and financial results. Given the lack of comparable precedent, it is unclear what financial, trade and legal implications the withdrawal of the U.K. from the E.U. will have and how such withdrawal will affect us. In addition, Brexit may create additional uncertainty in currency exchange rate fluctuations that may result in the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies in which we conduct business. We translate revenue denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international revenue and profit is reduced because foreign currencies translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Any of these effects of Brexit, among others, could materially adversely affect our relationships with our existing and future clients and vendors, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and business opportunities. Our business may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive revenue primarily from products and services we provide to the financial services industry and our merchant acquiring business. Given this focus, we are exposed to global economic conditions and adverse economic trends may accelerate the timing, or increase the impact of, risks to our financial performance. Such trends may include, but are not limited to, the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations, social unrest, natural disasters, public health crises, including the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues are dependent; low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high inflation and/or unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders; budgetary concerns in the U.S. and other countries around the world could affect the U.S. and other specific sovereign credit ratings, impact consumer confidence and spending, and increase the risks of operating in those countries; emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in the U.S. and Europe, and adverse economic trends, including high rates of inflation, may be more pronounced in such emerging markets; financial institutions may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate cardholder defaults; uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives, and realization of prepaid assets less predictable; our clients may decrease spending for value-added services; and 17 Table of Contents government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations, and/or government investments in our clients, may have potential negative effects on our business and our relationships with our clients or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. A weakening in the economy or competition from other retailers could also force some retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and declines in transactions, and reduced earnings on transactions due to a potential shift to large discount merchants. Additionally, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. A prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process or accounts we service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Potential tariffs or trade wars could increase the cost of our products, which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and our financial results. The U.S. has imposed tariffs on certain imports from China, including on some of our hardware devices manufactured in China. If the U.S. administration imposes additional tariffs, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the U.S. or other countries, our hardware devices produced in China could be impacted. Although it is difficult to predict how current or future tariffs on items imported from China or elsewhere will impact our business, the cost of our products manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. or other countries could increase, which in turn could adversely affect the demand for these products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Regulatory and Compliance Risks If we or third parties with whom we partner or contract fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liability and our business could be harmed. If we or third parties with whom we partner or contract fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business, including state and federal payment, cybersecurity, consumer protection, trade and data privacy laws and regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and our ability to obtain new clients could be inhibited, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our clients are also subject to numerous laws and regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions and card issuers in the U.S. and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by these federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, with new laws, regulations and interpretations thereof being implemented. Certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters and are required, among other matters, to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. Our direct-to-consumer payments businesses are subject to state and federal regulations in the U.S., including state money transmission regulations, anti-money laundering regulations, economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) and certain privacy regulations, such as the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our Money Network Financial, LLC subsidiary provides prepaid access for various open loop prepaid programs for which it is the program manager and therefore must meet the requirements of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We also have businesses that are subject to credit reporting and debt collection laws and regulations in the U.S. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, privacy, anti-money laundering, debt collection, and payment institution or electronic money licensing regulations outside the U.S. We operate our business around the world, including in certain foreign countries with developing economies where companies often engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws applicable to us, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. These laws prohibit, among other things, improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented policies and training programs to discourage such practices; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants and agents will comply with our policies and all applicable laws. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs, including those that are administered by OFAC, which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, specified countries, their governments, individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified in lists equivalent to OFAC lists in several other countries 18 Table of Contents and require specific data retention obligations to be observed by intermediaries in the payment process. Our businesses in those jurisdictions are subject to those data retention obligations. The volume and complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or changes in the regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new, varying or more restrictive laws and regulations by federal, state, local or foreign governments, may result in significant financial penalties, reputational harm, suspension or termination of our ability to provide certain services, or change or restrict the manner in which we currently conduct our business, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks and Nacha, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations, which could adversely affect our business. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and Mastercard and other networks as members or service providers for member institutions. A number of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are direct members or associate members of Visa and Mastercard for purposes of conducting merchant acquiring, and various subsidiaries are also processor level members of numerous debit and electronic benefits transaction networks. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us or our clients to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by us, acquiring clients, processing clients or merchants. In addition, we are subject to Nacha rules relating to payment transactions processed by us using the ACH network and to various federal and state laws regarding such operations, including laws pertaining to electronic benefits transactions, as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard enforced by the major card brands. The rules of Nacha and the card networks are set by their respective boards, some of which are our competitors, and the card network rules may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. If we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined and our member registrations or certifications could be suspended or terminated. The suspension or termination of our member registrations or certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the U.S. have been adopted, including those that establish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. In addition, the CFPB regulates consumer financial products and services (including many offered by our clients), restricts debit card fees paid by merchants to certain issuer banks and allows merchants to offer discounts for different payment methods. CFPB rules, examinations and enforcement actions may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs. Changes to the Dodd-Frank Act or regulations could adversely impact our debit network business. In addition, certain of our alliance partners are subject to regulation by federal and state authorities and, as a result, could pass through some of those compliance obligations to us. To the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. Additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory initiatives on cybersecurity and data privacy could adversely impact our business and financial results. Cybersecurity and data privacy risks have received heightened legislative and regulatory attention. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) extends the scope of the E.U. data protection law to all companies processing data of 19 Table of Contents E.U. residents, regardless of the companys location, subject to certain limitations. The law requires companies to meet stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. E.U. data protection law continues to develop and require significant changes to our policies and procedures. In July 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a decision in the case Data Protection Commissioner v. Facebook Ireland Limited, and Maximillian Schrems (the Schrems II Decision) that invalidated the European Commissions adequacy decision for the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework and placed additional safeguards necessary for transfers of personal data to the U.S., requiring companies and regulators to conduct case-by-case analyses to determine whether foreign protections concerning government access to transferred data meet E.U. standards. Our vendors and clients have been directly impacted by the Schrems II Decision, and our ability to transfer data outside the E.U. may be further impacted by the Schrems II Decision and determinations made by regulators in the E.U. We do not yet know the extent of this impact on our operations. We, along with our vendors and customers, rely on Standard Contractual Clauses (SCCs) to transfer data out of the E.U. If the European Commission requires that new SCCs be signed to replace the existing SCCs, we will need to devote resources to entering into the appropriate SCCs to continue to engage in transfers of data as applicable. In addition, with the U.K.s exit from the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union on December 31, 2020, there is uncertainty surrounding transfers of personal data from the E.U. to the U.K. The Trade Agreement provides that transfers of personal data from the E.U. to the U.K. will not be considered transfers of personal data to a third country during a transitional period of up to six months from January 1, 2021. If the transition period ends without an appropriate resolution, transfers of personal data from the E.U. to the U.K. may be impacted. Our efforts to comply with E.U., U.K. and other privacy and data protection laws (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, the California Privacy Rights Act taking effect in January 2023, the Brazilian General Data Protection Law and South Africas Protection of Personal Information Act) could involve substantial expenses, divert resources from other initiatives and projects and limit the services we are able to offer. Further, failure to comply with applicable laws in this area could also result in fines, penalties and reputational damage. In addition, U.S. banking agencies have proposed enhanced cyber risk management standards that would apply to us and our financial institution clients and that would address cyber risk governance and management, management of internal and external dependencies, and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. Several states also have adopted or proposed cybersecurity laws targeting these issues, including the New York Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies and the New York Shield Act to protect personal and private data. New York and Washington state have each proposed comprehensive privacy acts to govern the personal data of their residents. The U.S. government has also proposed federal privacy legislation. Legislation and regulations on cybersecurity, data privacy and data localization may compel us to enhance or modify our systems, invest in new systems or alter our business practices or our policies on data governance and privacy. If any of these outcomes were to occur, our operational costs could increase significantly. Failure to comply with state and federal antitrust requirements could adversely affect our business. Through our merchant alliances, we hold an ownership interest in several competing merchant acquiring businesses while serving as an electronic processor for those businesses. In order to satisfy state and federal antitrust requirements, we actively maintain an antitrust compliance program. Notwithstanding our compliance program, it is possible that perceived or actual violations of state or federal antitrust requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement investigations or actions. Regulatory scrutiny of, or regulatory enforcement action in connection with, compliance with state and federal antitrust requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We expose ourselves to additional liability when we agree to defend or indemnify our clients against third-party infringement claims. If the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. Any adverse result related to violation of third-party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. We actively seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use 20 Table of Contents information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. Agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. It is also possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology. Further, we use open source software in connection with our solutions. Companies that incorporate open source software into their solutions have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of solutions developed using open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. The laws of certain non-U.S. countries where we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our operations are subject to tax by federal, state, local, and international taxing jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations in our significant tax jurisdictions could materially increase the amount of taxes we owe, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. For example, the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the Tax Act) significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax code by, among other things, lowering corporate income tax rates, implementing a territorial-type tax system and imposing repatriation tax on deemed repatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Further analysis of the Tax Act or future tax laws, regulations or guidance from the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards Board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. Furthermore, our implementation of new practices and processes designed to comply with changing tax laws and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. We have established contingency reserves for known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These reserves reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there is no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost not in excess of any related reserve. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. Organizational and Financial Risks The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients demands. Our merchants may be unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. We are subject to the risk of our merchants being unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. For example, we and our merchant acquiring alliances may be subject to contingent liability for transactions originally acquired by us that are disputed by the cardholder and charged back to the merchants. If we or the alliance is unable to collect this amount from the merchant because of the merchants insolvency or other reasons, we or the alliance will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. Although we have an active program to manage our credit risk and often mitigate our risk by obtaining collateral, a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to potential liability for fraudulent transactions, including electronic payment and card transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid card or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. We also rely on ISOs to sell our merchant processing services, which they may do by contracting with their own sub-ISOs. We rely on these ISOs and sub-ISOs to exercise appropriate controls to avoid fraudulent transactions. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, or otherwise effectively administer our chargeback responsibilities, would increase our chargeback liability or expose us to fines or other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks, fines or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. A major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. We anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult or expensive to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, acquisitions outside of the U.S. often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with non-U.S. regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some non-U.S. countries; difficulty entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions. These risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. We may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. We have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. In connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. Our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 69% of our total assets at December 31, 2020. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. In addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. Existing or future leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately $20.7 billion of debt. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, if certain of our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. An increase in interest rates may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, term loan, foreign lines of credit and receivable securitization facility, are at variable rates of interest. An increase in interest rates would have a negative impact on our results of operations by causing an increase in interest expense. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1.8 billion in variable rate debt, which includes $1.3 billion on our term loan, $166 million drawn on our revolving credit facility and lines of credit and $425 million drawn on our accounts receivable securitization facility. Based on outstanding debt balances and interest rates at December 31, 2020, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would result in a decrease to annual pre-tax income of $18 million. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are subject to risks related to changes in currency rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenues and profit generated by such international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, we utilize foreign currency forward contracts and other hedging instruments to mitigate the market value risks associated with foreign currency-denominated transactions and investments. These hedging strategies may not, however, eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation, and we may forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. We have also issued foreign currency-denominated senior notes for which payments of interest and principal are to be made in foreign currency, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could cause the expense associated with such payments to increase. In addition, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. Any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues and earnings we derive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. First Data Acquisition Risks The synergies attributable to the acquisition may vary from expectations. We may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The success of the acquisition will depend, in significant part, on our ability to successfully integrate the acquired business, grow the revenue of the combined company and realize the anticipated strategic benefits and synergies from the combination. This growth and the anticipated benefits of the transaction may not be realized fully or may take longer to realize than expected. Actual operating, technological, strategic, synergy and revenue 23 Table of Contents opportunities may be less significant than expected or may take longer to achieve than anticipated. If we are not able to achieve these objectives and realize the anticipated benefits and synergies expected from the acquisition within the anticipated timing, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to the integration. We have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the integration of First Data. There are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that may need to be integrated, including our business operating platforms, purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, payroll, pricing and benefits. While we have assumed that a certain level of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond our control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. Moreover, many of the expenses that we will continue to incur are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. These expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that we expect to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. These integration expenses may result in us taking significant charges against earnings, and the amount and timing of such charges are uncertain at present. Our future results will be negatively impacted if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. As a result of the acquisition, the size of our business has increased significantly. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations; integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; potential unknown liabilities; and associated increased costs. We may also face increased scrutiny from governmental authorities as a result of the significant increase in the size of our business. Any of these issues could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with customers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies or achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or could reduce our earnings or otherwise adversely affect our business and financial results. New Omaha Holdings L.P. may sell a substantial amount of our common stock as certain restrictions on sales expire, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. New Omaha Holdings L.P. (New Omaha) owns approximately 13% of our outstanding shares. New Omaha may sell its shares subject to certain limitations contained in the shareholder agreement between us and New Omaha. Under a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition, we have granted New Omaha registration rights, which permit, among others, underwritten offerings. The registration rights agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock held by New Omaha and its affiliate transferees falls below 2% and such shares may be freely sold without restrictions. New Omaha may have influence over us and its interests may conflict with other shareholders. New Omaha owns approximately 13% of our issued and outstanding shares and is our largest shareholder. Under the shareholder agreement between us and New Omaha, New Omaha may designate a director to serve on our board of directors in accordance with the terms thereof until the aggregate ownership percentage of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock held by New Omaha and its affiliate transferees first falls below 5%. The shareholder agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of our outstanding shares held by New Omaha and certain of its affiliates falls below 3%. Although there are various restrictions on New Omahas ability to take certain actions with respect to us and our shareholders (including certain standstill provisions for so long as New Omahas aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock remains at or above 5%), New Omaha may seek to influence, and may be able to influence, us through its appointment of a director to our board of directors and its share ownership. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties At December 31, 2020, we owned 20 properties and leased 161 properties globally. These locations are used for operational, sales, management and administrative purposes. As a normal part of our business operations, including in connection with the integration of companies that we acquire, we regularly review our real estate portfolio. We may choose to acquire or dispose of properties in order to maintain a real estate footprint designed to maximize collaboration, innovation and communication in ways that enable us to best serve our clients and to create more opportunities for professional growth and development for our associates. 24 Table of Contents Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, we or our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names of our executive officers as of February 26, 2021, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below: Name Age Title Frank J. Bisignano 61 President and Chief Executive Officer Guy Chiarello 61 Chief Administrative Officer Christopher M. Foskett 63 Executive Vice President, Global Sales Robert W. Hau 55 Chief Financial Officer Lynn S. McCreary 61 Chief Legal Officer and Secretary Devin B. McGranahan 51 Executive Vice President, Senior Group President Byron C. Vielehr 57 Chief Digital and Data Officer Mr. Bisignano has served as Chief Executive Officer since July 2020 and a director and President since July 2019. He served as Chief Operating Officer from July 2019 until July 2020. Mr. Bisignano joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as chief executive officer since 2013 and chairman since 2014. From 2005 to 2013, he held various executive positions with JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm, including co-chief operating officer, chief executive officer of mortgage banking and chief administrative officer. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Bisignano served as chief executive officer for Citigroups Global Transactions Services business and a member of Citigroups Management Committee. Mr. Chiarello has served as Chief Administrative Officer since July 2019. Mr. Chiarello joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as president since 2013. From 2008 to 2013, he served as chief information officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm. From 1985 to 2008, Mr. Chiarello served in various technology and leadership roles including chief information officer at Morgan Stanley, a global financial services firm. Mr. Foskett has served as Executive Vice President, Global Sales since July 2019. Mr. Foskett joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as executive vice president, head of corporate and business development since 2015 and co-head of global financial services since 2018. He joined First Data Corporation in 2014 as head of global, strategic and national accounts. From 2011 to 2014, Mr. Foskett served as managing director, head of North American treasury services and global head of sales for treasury services at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm. From 2009 to 2011, he was managing director, global head of financial institutions at National Australia Bank, an Australian financial institution. From 1991 to 2008, Mr. Foskett was managing director in Citigroups Corporate & Investment Bank leading several global businesses. Prior to that, he was employed by Goldman Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co. focusing on mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Hau has served as Chief Financial Officer since 2016. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. Hau served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at TE Connectivity Ltd., a global technology and manufacturing company, from 2012 to 2016. From 2009 to 2012, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at Lennox International Inc., a provider of products and services in the heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration markets; and from 2006 to 2009, he served as vice president and chief financial officer for the aerospace business group of Honeywell International, Inc., a technology and manufacturing company. Mr. Hau joined Honeywell (initially AlliedSignal) in 1987 and served in a variety of senior financial leadership positions, including vice president and chief financial officer for the companys aerospace electronic systems unit and for its specialty materials business group. Ms. McCreary has served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since 2013. Ms. McCreary joined Fiserv in 2010 as senior vice president and deputy general counsel. Prior to joining Fiserv, Ms. McCreary was a partner with the law firm of Bryan Cave LLP from 1996 to 2010, including serving as managing partner of its San Francisco, California office from its opening in 2008 to 2010. Ms. McCreary began her career in financial services with positions at Citicorp Person-to-Person and Metropolitan Life Insurance Companys mortgage subsidiary, Metmor Financial, Inc. Mr. McGranahan has served as Executive Vice President, Senior Group President since 2018 and joined Fiserv in 2016 as group president, Billing and Payments Group. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. McGranahan served as a senior partner at McKinsey & Company, a global management consulting firm. While there, he held a variety of senior management roles, including leader of the global insurance practice from 2013 to 2016 and co-chair of the global senior partner election committee from 2013 to 2015. In addition, Mr. McGranahan served as co-leader of the North America financial services practice from 2009 to 2016. He joined McKinsey & Company in 1992 and served in a variety of other leadership positions prior to 2009, including leader of the North American property and casualty practice and managing partner of the Pittsburgh office. 26 Table of Contents Mr. Vielehr has served as Chief Digital and Data Officer since January 2021. He previously served as Executive Vice President, Senior Group President from 2019 to January 2021, Chief Administrative Officer from 2018 to 2019, and as Group President, Depository Institution Services Group from 2013 to 2018. Prior to joining Fiserv, from 2005 to 2013, Mr. Vielehr served in a succession of senior executive positions with The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, a provider of commercial information and business insight solutions, most recently as president of international and global operations. He also previously served as president and chief operating officer of Northstar Systems International, Inc., a developer of wealth management software (now part of SEI Investments Company), from 2004 to 2005. Mr. Vielehr has more than 25 years of experience in the financial services and technology industries, including a variety of executive leadership roles at Merrill Lynch & Co. and Strong Capital Management. 27 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Price Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol FISV. At December 31, 2020, our common stock was held by 1,690 shareholders of record and by a significantly greater number of shareholders who hold shares in nominee or street name accounts with brokers. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. For additional information regarding our expected use of capital, refer to the discussion in this report under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2020: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1-31, 2020 $ 7,486,000 November 1-30, 2020 67,486,000 December 1-31, 2020 1,818,000 110.04 1,818,000 65,668,000 Total 1,818,000 1,818,000 (1) On August 8, 2018 and November 19, 2020, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 30.0 million and 60.0 million shares of our common stock, respectively. These authorizations do not expire. In connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards, shares of common stock are delivered to the Company by employees to satisfy tax withholding obligations. The following table summarizes such purchases of common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2020: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1-31, 2020 $ November 1-30, 2020 December 1-31, 2020 30,900 (1) 113.86 Total 30,900 (1) Shares surrendered to us to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with the vesting of restricted stock awards issued to employees. 28 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31, 2020 with the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index (the Index). Prior to September 21, 2020, the Index was known as the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index. The Index, as renamed, is identical to the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index prior to its name change on September 21, 2020. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2015 in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. December 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Fiserv, Inc. $ 100 $ 116 $ 143 $ 161 $ 253 $ 249 S&P 500 Index 100 112 136 130 171 203 NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index 100 112 151 162 225 302 29 Table of Contents Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes and the sections entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected historical data presented below has been affected by the First Data and other acquisitions, dispositions and transactional gains recorded by our unconsolidated affiliates, debt financing activities, foreign currency fluctuations, the tax effects related to share-based payment awards and by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in December 2017. In addition, effective January 1, 2020, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), using the required modified retrospective approach, which resulted in a cumulative-effect decrease to beginning retained earnings of $45 million. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), and its related amendments using the optional transition method applied to all leases. The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in the recognition of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheet beginning January 1, 2019. Under the optional transition approach, prior period amounts have not been restated. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , and its related amendments using the modified retrospective transition approach applied to all contracts. Under this transition approach, prior period amounts have not been restated. All per share amounts are presented on a split-adjusted basis to retroactively reflect the two-for-one stock split that was completed in the first quarter of 2018. (In millions, except per share data) 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Total revenue $ 14,852 $ 10,187 $ 5,823 $ 5,696 $ 5,505 Income from continuing operations $ 975 $ 914 $ 1,187 $ 1,232 $ 930 Income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes 14 Net income 975 914 1,187 1,246 930 Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests 17 21 Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. $ 958 $ 893 $ 1,187 $ 1,246 $ 930 Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share basic: Continuing operations $ 1.42 $ 1.74 $ 2.93 $ 2.92 $ 2.11 Discontinued operations 0.03 Total $ 1.42 $ 1.74 $ 2.93 $ 2.95 $ 2.11 Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share diluted: Continuing operations $ 1.40 $ 1.71 $ 2.87 $ 2.86 $ 2.08 Discontinued operations 0.03 Total $ 1.40 $ 1.71 $ 2.87 $ 2.89 $ 2.08 Total assets $ 74,619 $ 77,539 $ 11,262 $ 10,289 $ 9,743 Long-term debt (including short-term and current maturities) 20,684 21,899 5,959 4,900 4,562 Fiserv, Inc. shareholders equity 32,330 32,979 2,293 2,731 2,541 30 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Our discussion is organized as follows: Overview . This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies and estimates . This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Results of operations . This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2020 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2019 and by comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2019 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2018. Liquidity and capital resources . This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at December 31, 2020. Overview Company Background We are a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We provide account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale (POS) solution. We serve clients around the globe, including banks, credit unions, other financial institutions, corporate clients and merchants. On July 29, 2019, we acquired First Data Corporation (First Data), a global leader in commerce-enabling technology and solutions for merchants, financial institutions and card issuers. Effective in the first quarter of 2020, we realigned our reportable segments to reflect our new management structure and organizational responsibilities (Segment Realignment) following the acquisition of First Data. Our operations are comprised of the Merchant Acceptance (Acceptance) segment, the Financial Technology (Fintech) segment and the Payments and Network (Payments) segment. The consolidated financial statements include the financial results of First Data from the date of acquisition. Segment results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 have been restated to reflect the Segment Realignment. The Acceptance segment provides a wide range of commerce-enabling solutions to merchants of all sizes and types around the world. These solutions include POS merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection products and services; Carat SM , our omnichannel commerce solution; and our cloud-based Clover POS platform, which includes a marketplace for proprietary and third-party business applications. The businesses in the Acceptance segment are subject to a modest level of seasonality, with the first quarter generally experiencing the lowest level of revenue and the fourth quarter experiencing the highest level of revenue. The Fintech segment provides financial institutions around the world with technology solutions that enable them to process customer deposit and loan accounts and manage general ledger and central information files, as well as other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions such as digital banking, financial and risk management, cash management, professional services and consulting, and item processing and source capture services. Our businesses in this segment also provide products and services to corporate clients to facilitate the management of financial processes and transactions. The Payments segment primarily provides financial institutions and corporate clients with the products and services required to process digital payment transactions, including card transactions such as debit, credit and prepaid card processing and services, a range of network services, security and fraud protection products, card production and print services. In addition, our businesses in this segment offer non-card digital payment software and services, including bill payment, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payments, electronic billing, and security and fraud protection products. 31 Table of Contents The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts with high renewal rates. Most of the services we provide within our segments are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Corporate and Other supports the reportable segments described above, and consists of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when we evaluate segment performance, such as gains or losses on sales of businesses, costs associated with acquisition and divestiture activity, and our Output Solutions postage reimbursements. Corporate and Other also includes the historical results of our Investment Services business, of which we sold a 60% controlling interest in February 2020, as well as certain transition services revenue associated with various dispositions. Acquisitions and Dispositions We frequently review our portfolio to ensure we have the right set of businesses to execute on our strategy. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. Acquisitions On March 2, 2020, we acquired MerchantPro Express LLC (MerchantPro), an independent sales organization (ISO) that provides processing services, POS equipment and merchant cash advances to businesses across the United States. MerchantPro is included within the Acceptance segment and further expands our merchant services business. On March 18, 2020, we acquired Bypass Mobile, LLC (Bypass), an independent software vendor and innovator in enterprise POS systems for sports and entertainment venues, food service management providers and national restaurant chains. Bypass is included within the Acceptance segment and further enhances our omni-commerce capabilities, enabling enterprise businesses to deliver a seamless customer experience that spans physical and digital channels. On May 11, 2020, we acquired Inlet, LLC (Inlet), a provider of secure digital delivery solutions for enterprise and middle-market billers invoices and statements. Inlet is included within the Payments segment and further enhances our digital bill payment strategy. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $167 million, net of $2 million of acquired cash, and including earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $45 million. On July 29, 2019, we acquired First Data for a total purchase price of $46.5 billion by acquiring 100% of the First Data stock that was issued and outstanding as of the date of acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, First Data stockholders received 286 million shares of common stock of Fiserv, Inc., at an exchange ratio of 0.303 shares of Fiserv, Inc. for each share of First Data common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. We also converted 15 million outstanding First Data equity awards into corresponding equity awards relating to common stock of Fiserv, Inc. in accordance with the exchange ratio. In addition, concurrent with the closing of the acquisition, we made a cash payment of $16.4 billion to repay existing First Data debt. We funded the transaction-related expenses and the repayment of First Data debt through a combination of available cash on-hand, proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, and term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings. The acquisition of First Data, included within the Acceptance and Payments segments, increases our footprint as a global payments and financial technology provider by expanding the portfolio of services provided to financial institutions, corporate and merchant clients and consumers. On October 31, 2018, we acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and MoneyPass surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $659 million including post-closing working capital adjustments, estimated contingent consideration related to earn-out provisions and future payments under a transition services agreement in excess of estimated fair value. This acquisition, included within the Payments segment, deepens our presence in debit card processing, broadens our client reach and scale and provides new solutions to enhance the value proposition for our existing debit solution clients. On January 22, 2021, we acquired Ondot Systems, Inc., a digital experience platform provider for financial institutions. This acquisition, to be included within the Payments segment, will further expand our digital capabilities, enhancing our suite of integrated solutions spanning card-based payments, digital banking platforms, core banking, and merchant solutions to enable clients of all sizes to deliver frictionless, digital-first and personalized experiences to their customers. Dispositions Effective July 1, 2020, we and Bank of America (BANA) dissolved the Banc of America Merchant Services joint venture (BAMS or the joint venture), of which we maintained a 51% controlling ownership interest. Upon dissolution of the joint ventures operations, the joint venture transferred a proportionate share of value, primarily the client contracts, to each party via 32 Table of Contents an agreed upon contractual separation. The remaining activities of the joint venture will consist of supporting the transition of the business to each party and an orderly wind down of remaining BAMS assets and liabilities. The revenues and expenses of the BAMS joint venture were consolidated into our financial results though the date of dissolution. The business transferred to us will continue to be operated and managed within our Acceptance segment. We will continue to provide merchant processing and related services to former BAMS clients allocated to BANA, at BAMS pricing, through June 2023. We will also provide processing and other support services to new BANA merchant clients pursuant to a five-year non-exclusive agreement which, after June 2023, will also apply to the former BAMS clients allocated to BANA. In addition, both companies are entitled to certain transition services, at fair value, from each other through June 2023. On February 18, 2020, we sold a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business, subsequently renamed as Tegra118, LLC (Tegra118), which is reported within Corporate and Other following the Segment Realignment. We received pre-tax proceeds of $578 million, net of related expenses, resulting in a pre-tax gain on the sale of $428 million, with a related tax expense of $112 million. Our retained interest is accounted for as an equity method investment. On February 2, 2021, Tegra118 completed a merger with a third party, resulting in a dilution of our ownership interest in the combined new entity, Wealthtech Holdings, LLC. In connection with the acquisition of First Data, we acquired two businesses which we intended to sell. In October 2019, we completed the sales, at acquired fair value, of these two businesses for aggregate proceeds of $133 million. On March 29, 2018, we sold a 55% controlling interest of our Lending Solutions business, which was reported within the Fintech segment, retaining 45% ownership interests in two joint ventures (the Lending Joint Ventures). In conjunction with this transaction, we entered into transition services agreements to provide, at fair value, various administration, business process outsourcing and data center related services for defined periods to the Lending Joint Ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. In August 2019, the Sagent Auto, LLC joint venture, formerly known as Fiserv Automotive Solutions, LLC, completed a merger with a third party, resulting in the dilution of our ownership interest to 31% in the combined entity, defi SOLUTIONS Group, LLC. Our remaining ownership interest in the Lending Joint Ventures are accounted for as equity method investments. In addition, in January 2018, we completed the sale of the retail voucher business acquired in our 2017 acquisition of Monitise for proceeds of 37 million ($50 million). Enterprise Priorities We aspire to move money and information in a way that moves the world by delivering superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We achieve this through active portfolio management of our business, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. Our long-term priorities are to (i) deliver integration value from the First Data acquisition; (ii) continue to build high-quality revenue while meeting our earnings goals; (iii) enhance client relationships with an emphasis on digital and payment solutions; and (iv) deliver innovation and integration which enables differentiated value for our clients. Industry Trends The global payments landscape continues to evolve, with rapidly advancing technologies and a steady expansion of digital payments, e-commerce and innovation in real-time payments infrastructure. Because of this growth, competition also continues to evolve. Business and consumer expectations continue to rise, with a focus on convenience and security. To meet these expectations, payments companies are focused on modernizing their technology, expanding the use of data and enhancing the customer experience. Financial Institutions The market for products and services offered by financial institutions continues to evolve rapidly. The traditional financial industry and other market entrants regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, risk management, lending and investment products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving global regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include electronic payments and delivery methods such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as digital channels. 33 Table of Contents The focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes in an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through digital channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. In addition to the trends described above, the financial institutions marketplace has experienced change in composition as well. During the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we receive a contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. These fees can vary from period to period with the variance depending on the quantum of financial institution merger activity in a given period and whether or not our clients are involved in the activity. Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has also reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Merchants The rapid growth in and globalization of mobile and e-commerce, driven by consumers desire for simpler, more efficient shopping experiences, has created an opportunity for merchants to reach consumers in high-growth online and mobile settings, which often requires a merchant acquiring provider to enable and optimize the acceptance of payments. Merchants are demanding simpler, integrated and modern POS systems to help manage their everyday business operations. When combined with the ever-increasing ways a consumer can pay for goods and services, merchants have sought modern POS systems to streamline this complexity. Furthermore, merchants can now search, discover, compare, purchase and even install a new POS system through direct, digital-only experiences. This direct, digital-only channel is quickly becoming a source of new merchant acquisition opportunities, especially with respect to smaller merchants. In addition, there are numerous software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions in the industry, many of which have chosen to integrate merchant acquiring within their software as a way to further monetize their client relationships. SaaS solutions that integrate payments are often referred to as Independent Software Vendors (or ISVs), and we believe there are thousands of these potential distribution partnership opportunities available to us. We believe that our merchant acquiring products and solutions create compelling value propositions for merchant clients of all sizes, from small and mid-sized businesses (or SMBs) to medium-sized regional businesses to global enterprise merchants, and across all verticals. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with valued partnerships with merchant acquiring businesses of small, medium and large financial institutions, and non-financial institutions, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Recent Market Conditions In 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was identified and has since continued to spread. In March 2020, the World Health Organization recognized the COVID-19 outbreak as a pandemic. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have taken actions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as imposing travel restrictions and bans, quarantines, social distancing guidelines, shelter-in-place or lock-down orders and other similar limitations, adversely impacting global economic activity and contributing to significant volatility in financial markets. From time to time during the second half of 2020 and into 2021, some jurisdictions have eased restrictions in an effort to reopen their economies. While this has been successful in some places, others have had to reinstate restrictions to curb the spread of the virus. We have taken several actions since the onset of the pandemic to protect the health, safety and well-being of our employees while maintaining business continuity. These actions include, among others, requiring a majority of our employees to work remotely, eliminating non-essential travel, suspending all non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities and workspaces extensively and frequently, providing personal protective equipment to associates and requiring employees who 34 Table of Contents must be present at our facilities to adhere to a variety of safety protocols. In addition, we have expanded paid time-off for employees impacted by COVID-19, provided increased pay for certain employees involved in critical infrastructure who could not work remotely, and expanded our Fiserv Cares program to benefit employees in need around the world. We expect to continue such safety measures for the foreseeable future and may take further actions, or adapt these existing policies, as government authorities may require or recommend or as we may determine to be in the best interest of our employees, clients and vendors. Our operating performance is subject to global economic and market conditions, as well as their impacts on levels of consumer and business spending. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and the related decline in global economic activity, we experienced a significant decrease in payments volume and transactions beginning in late March 2020 that negatively impacted our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses, which earn transaction-based fees, as well as modest declines in other businesses. Merchant acquiring transaction and payment volumes began to partially recover in May 2020 and continued to improve into July 2020; thereafter, the monthly volume growth rate as compared to the prior year stabilized for the balance of the year. While recent business trends demonstrate positive momentum, the uncertainty caused by the pandemic creates an economic environment where our future financial results remain difficult to anticipate. We currently expect payments volume and transactions to continue to improve throughout 2021. Throughout 2020, we also took several actions to manage discretionary costs including, among others, limiting the hiring of new employees, limiting third-party spending and the temporary suspension of certain employee-related benefits, including company matching contributions to the Fiserv 401(k) Savings Plan as well as the discount on shares purchased under the Fiserv, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Effective January 1, 2021, company matching contributions were re-established to equal 100% on the first 1% contributed and 25% on the next 4% contributed for eligible participants. In addition, we reassessed and deferred certain capital expenditures that were originally planned for 2020. We will continue to monitor and assess developments related to COVID-19 and implement appropriate actions to minimize the risk to our operations of any material adverse developments. Ultimately, the extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our future operational and financial performance will depend on, among other matters, the duration and intensity of the COVID-19 pandemic; governmental and private sector responses to the pandemic and the impact of such responses on us; the level of success of global vaccination efforts; and the impact of the pandemic on our employees, clients, vendors, operations and sales, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, including for recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. Acquisitions From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions that may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgments. We use information available to us to make fair value determinations and engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in the fair value determination of significant acquired long-lived assets. The determination of fair value requires estimates about discount rates, growth and retention rates, royalty rates, expected future cash flows and other future events that are judgmental in nature. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additional information regarding our acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. 35 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets We review the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level, which is one level below our reportable segments. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, we consider the prior tests amount of excess fair value over the carrying value of each reporting unit, the period of time since a reporting units last quantitative test, the extent a reorganization or disposition changes the composition of one or more of our reporting units, and other factors to determine whether or not to first perform a qualitative test. When performing a qualitative test, we assess numerous factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. Examples of qualitative factors that we assess include our share price, our financial performance, market and competitive factors in our industry and other events specific to our reporting units. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform a quantitative impairment test. The quantitative impairment test compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, and recognizes an impairment loss for the amount by which a reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value, without exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit using both a discounted cash flow analysis and a market approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions. In connection with the Segment Realignment, certain of our reporting units changed in composition in which goodwill was allocated to such reporting units using a relative fair value approach. Accordingly, we performed an interim goodwill impairment assessment in the first quarter of 2020 for those reporting units impacted by the Segment Realignment and determined that our goodwill was not impaired based on an assessment of various qualitative factors, as described above. Our most recent annual impairment assessment of our reporting units in the fourth quarter of 2020 determined that our goodwill of $36 billion was not impaired as the estimated fair values of the respective reporting units exceeded the carrying values. However, for four of our reporting units that were acquired as part of the First Data acquisition, with aggregate goodwill of $12 billion, the excess of the respective reporting units fair value over carrying value ranged from 14 to 21 percent. If future operating performance is below our expectations or there are changes to forecasted revenue growth rates, risk-adjusted discount rates, effective income tax rates, or some combination thereof, a decline in the fair value of the reporting units could result in, and we may be required to record, a goodwill impairment charge. It is also reasonably possible that future developments related to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain of our recently acquired (recorded at fair value) First Data businesses, such as an increased duration and intensity of the pandemic and/or government-imposed shutdowns, prolonged economic downturn or recession, or lack of governmental support for recovery, could have a future material impact on one or more of the estimates and assumptions used to evaluate goodwill impairment. We have no accumulated goodwill impairment through December 31, 2020. Additional information regarding our goodwill is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. We review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We review capitalized software development costs for impairment at each reporting date. Recoverability of intangible assets is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to either the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or the net realizable value of the asset, depending on the type of asset. Determining future cash flows and net realizable values involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions regarding future economic and market conditions. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. Given the significance of our goodwill and intangible asset balances, an adverse change in fair value could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties. As a practical expedient, we do not adjust the transaction price for the effects of a significant financing component if, at contract inception, the period between customer payment and the transfer of goods or services is expected to be one year or less. Contracts with customers are evaluated on a contract-by-contract basis as contracts may include multiple types of goods and services as described below. Processing and Services Processing and services revenue is generated from account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, merchant transaction processing and acquiring, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit/credit processing services; consulting and professional services; and software maintenance for ongoing client support. 36 Table of Contents We recognize processing and services revenues in the period in which the specific service is performed unless they are not deemed distinct from other goods or services, in which case revenue would then be recognized as control is transferred of the combined goods and services. Our arrangements for processing and services typically consist of an obligation to provide specific services to our customers on a when- and if-needed basis (a stand-ready obligation) and revenue is recognized from the satisfaction of the performance obligations in the amount billable to the customer. These services are typically provided under a fixed or declining (tier-based) price per unit based on volume of service; however, pricing for services may also be based on minimum monthly usage fees. Fees for our processing and services arrangements are typically billed and paid on a monthly basis. Product Product revenue is generated from print and card production sales, as well as software license sales. For software license agreements that are distinct, we recognize software license revenue upon delivery, assuming a contract is deemed to exist. Revenue for arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software such that the software is not distinct is typically recognized over time based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. For arrangements involving hosted licensed software for the customer, a software element is considered present to the extent the customer has the contractual right to take possession of the software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and it is feasible for the customer to either operate the software on their own hardware or contract with another vendor to host the software. We also sell or lease hardware (POS devices) and other peripherals as part of our contracts with customers. Hardware typically consists of terminals or Clover devices. We do not manufacture hardware, rather we purchase hardware from third-party vendors and hold such hardware in inventory until purchased by a customer. We account for sales of hardware as a separate performance obligation and recognize the revenue at its standalone selling price when the customer obtains control of the hardware. Significant Judgments We use the following methods, inputs and assumptions in determining amounts of revenue to recognize. For multi-element arrangements, we account for individual goods or services as a separate performance obligation if they are distinct, the good or service is separately identifiable from other items in the arrangement, and if a customer can benefit from the good or service on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. If these criteria are not met, the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Determining whether goods or services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately may require significant judgment. Technology or service components from third parties are frequently embedded in or combined with our applications or service offerings. Whether we recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer or the net amount retained involves judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances including the level of contractual responsibilities and obligations for delivering solutions to end customers. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring products or services to the customer. We include any fixed charges within our contracts as part of the total transaction price. To the extent that variable consideration is not constrained, we include an estimate of the variable amount, as appropriate, within the total transaction price and update our assumptions over the duration of the contract. We may constrain the estimated transaction price in the event of a high degree of uncertainty as to the final consideration amount owed because of an extended length of time over which the fees may be adjusted. The transaction price (including any discounts or rebates) is allocated between distinct goods and services in a multi-element arrangement based on their relative standalone selling prices. For items that are not sold separately, we estimate the standalone selling prices using available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines. Significant judgment may be required to determine standalone selling prices for each performance obligation and whether it depicts the amount we expect to receive in exchange for the related good or service. Contract modifications occur when we and our customers agree to modify existing customer contracts to change the scope or price (or both) of the contract or when a customer terminates some, or all, of the existing services provided by us. When a contract modification occurs, it requires us to exercise judgment to determine if the modification should be accounted for as (i) a separate contract, (ii) the termination of the original contract and creation of a new contract, or (iii) a cumulative catch up adjustment to the original contract. Further, contract modifications require the identification and evaluation of the performance obligations of the modified contract, including the allocation of revenue to the remaining performance obligations and the period of recognition for each identified performance obligation. Additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. 37 Table of Contents Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires managements judgment in the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws, sometimes made more complex by our global footprint. Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish a liability for known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. In establishing a liability for known tax exposures, assumptions are made in determining whether, and the extent to which, a tax position will be sustained. A tax benefit with respect to a tax position is recognized only when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority, based on its technical merits, considering the facts and circumstances available as of the reporting date. The amount of tax benefit recognized reflects the largest benefit that we believe is more likely than not to be realized on settlement with the relevant taxing authority. As new information becomes available, we evaluate our tax positions and adjust our liability for known tax exposures as appropriate. We maintain net operating loss carryforwards in various taxing jurisdictions, resulting in the establishment of deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets when, based upon the weight of all available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we have considered the relative impact of all of the available positive and negative evidence regarding future sources of taxable income and available tax planning strategies. However, there could be a material impact to our effective tax rate if there is a significant change in our judgment. To the extent our judgment changes, the valuation allowances are then adjusted, generally through the provision for income taxes, in the period in which the change in facts and circumstances occurs. Additional information regarding our income taxes is included in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Components of Revenue and Expenses The following summary describes the components of revenue and expenses as presented in our consolidated statements of income. Processing and Services Processing and services revenue, which in 2020 represented 82% of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts. Processing and services revenue is most reflective of our business performance as a significant amount of our total operating profit is generated by these services. Cost of processing and services includes costs directly associated with providing services to clients and includes the following: personnel; equipment and data communication; infrastructure costs, including costs to maintain software applications; client support; certain depreciation and amortization; and other operating expenses. Product Product revenue, which in 2020 represented 18% of our total revenue, is primarily derived from print and card production sales, as well as software license sales and hardware (POS devices) sales. Cost of product includes costs directly associated with the products sold and includes the following: costs of materials and software development; hardware; personnel; infrastructure costs; certain depreciation and amortization; and other costs directly associated with product revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, administrative employees and management; advertising and promotional costs; certain depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. Synergies from the First Data Acquisition Following the acquisition of First Data, we continue to implement our post-merger integration plans to achieve synergies from future expected economic benefits, including enhanced revenue growth from expanded capabilities and geographic presence as well as substantial cost savings from duplicative overhead, streamlined operations and enhanced operational efficiency. At December 31, 2020, we have achieved a significant portion of revenue and cost synergies and expect to meet or exceed our previously announced targets. 38 Table of Contents Financial Results The following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year-to-year. This information should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The financial results presented below have been affected by the acquisition of First Data and other acquisitions, dispositions, debt financing activities, and foreign currency fluctuations. The amounts from the acquired First Data businesses were included in our results for the full year in 2020 and for the five months, since the July 29,2019 acquisition date, in 2019. (In millions) Percentage of Revenue (1) Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31, 2020 2019 2018 2020 2019 2018 2020 vs. 2019 2019 vs. 2018 Revenue: Processing and services $ 12,215 $ 8,573 $ 4,975 82.2 % 84.2 % 85.4 % $ 3,642 42 % $ 3,598 72 % Product 2,637 1,614 848 17.8 % 15.8 % 14.6 % 1,023 63 % 766 90 % Total revenue 14,852 10,187 5,823 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 4,665 46 % 4,364 75 % Expenses: Cost of processing and services 5,841 4,016 2,324 47.8 % 46.8 % 46.7 % 1,825 45 % 1,692 73 % Cost of product 1,971 1,293 745 74.7 % 80.1 % 87.9 % 678 52 % 548 74 % Sub-total 7,812 5,309 3,069 52.6 % 52.1 % 52.7 % 2,503 47 % 2,240 73 % Selling, general and administrative 5,652 3,284 1,228 38.1 % 32.2 % 21.1 % 2,368 72 % 2,056 167 % Gain on sale of businesses (464) (15) (227) (3.1) % (0.1) % (3.9) % 449 n/m (212) n/m Total expenses 13,000 8,578 4,070 87.5 % 84.2 % 69.9 % 4,422 52 % 4,508 111 % Operating income 1,852 1,609 1,753 12.5 % 15.8 % 30.1 % 243 15 % (144) (8) % Interest expense, net (709) (473) (189) (4.8) % (4.6) % (3.2) % 236 50 % 284 150 % Debt financing activities (47) (14) % (0.5) % (0.2) % (47) (100) % 33 236 % Other income (expense) 28 (6) 5 0.2 % (0.1) % 0.1 % 34 n/m (11) n/m Income before income taxes and income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates 1,171 1,083 1,555 7.9 % 10.6 % 26.7 % 88 8 % (472) (30) % Income tax provision (196) (198) (378) (1.3) % (1.9) % (6.5) % (2) (1) % (180) (48) % Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates 29 10 % 0.3 % 0.2 % (29) (100) % 19 190 % Net income 975 914 1,187 6.6 % 9.0 % 20.4 % 61 7 % (273) (23) % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests 17 21 0.1 % 0.2 % % (4) (19) % 21 n/m Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. $ 958 $ 893 $ 1,187 6.5 % 8.8 % 20.4 % $ 65 7 % $ (294) (25) % (1) Percentage of revenue is calculated as the relevant revenue, expense, income or loss amount divided by total revenue, except for cost of processing and services and cost of product amounts, which are divided by the related component of revenue. 39 Table of Contents (In millions) Year Ended December 31, Acceptance Fintech Payments Corporate and Other Total Total revenue: 2020 $ 5,522 $ 2,901 $ 5,504 $ 925 $ 14,852 2019 2,571 2,942 3,909 765 10,187 2018 2,917 2,408 498 5,823 Revenue growth: 2020 $ 2,951 $ (41) $ 1,595 $ 160 $ 4,665 2020 percentage 115 % (1) % 41 % 46 % 2019 $ 2,571 $ 25 $ 1,501 $ 267 $ 4,364 2019 percentage 1 % 62 % 75 % Operating income: 2020 $ 1,427 $ 992 $ 2,361 $ (2,928) $ 1,852 2019 764 885 1,658 (1,698) 1,609 2018 851 1,081 (179) 1,753 Operating income growth: 2020 $ 663 $ 107 $ 703 $ (1,230) $ 243 2020 percentage 87 % 12 % 42 % 15 % 2019 $ 764 $ 34 $ 577 $ (1,519) $ (144) 2019 percentage 4 % 53 % (8) % Operating margin: 2020 25.9 % 34.2 % 42.9 % 12.5 % 2019 29.7 % 30.1 % 42.4 % 15.8 % 2018 % 29.2 % 44.9 % 30.1 % Operating margin growth: (1) 2020 (380) bps 410 bps 50 bps (330) bps 2019 90 bps (250) bps (1,430) bps (1) Represents the basis point growth or decline in operating margin. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts. Total Revenue Total revenue increased $4,665 million, or 46%, in 2020 and increased $4,364 million, or 75%, in 2019 compared to the prior years, primarily driven by the incremental revenue from the First Data acquisition. The First Data acquisition, which was completed on July 29, 2019, contributed $5,067 million and $4,078 million of incremental revenue during 2020 and 2019, respectively, with $3,114 million and $2,571 million to the Acceptance segment, $1,616 million and $1,230 million to the Payments segment, and $337 million and $277 million to Corporate and Other, during 2020 and 2019, respectively. Conversely, dispositions reduced revenue by $348 million and $54 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, compared to the prior years. Revenue in our Acceptance segment increased $2,951 million, or 115%, in 2020, driven by the acquisition of First Data on July 29, 2019, which contributed incremental revenue of $3,114 million during the first seven months of 2020 and the entire $2,571 million of Acceptance segment revenue in 2019. The dissolution of the BAMS joint venture on July 1, 2020 reduced Acceptance segment revenue growth in 2020 by 6% compared to 2019. In addition, revenue in our Acceptance segment, which earns transaction-based fees, was adversely affected by the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the last two weeks of March 2020 and throughout the remainder of the year. Merchant acquiring transaction and payment volumes began to partially recover in May 2020 and continued to improve into July 2020; thereafter, the monthly volume growth rate as compared to the prior year stabilized for the balance of the year. 40 Table of Contents Revenue in our Fintech segment decreased $41 million, or 1%, in 2020 and increased $25 million, or 1%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Dispositions, including our remittance solutions business in December 2019 and Lending Solutions business in March 2018, reduced Fintech segment revenue growth by 1% and 2% in 2020 and 2019, respectively, compared to the prior years. Recurring revenue growth from higher processing volumes in 2020 was offset by a reduction of 2% from a decline in termination fee revenue. Fintech segment revenue growth in 2019 was driven by growth in our bank solutions business from new business, customer migrations from in-house technology to outsourced solutions and growth with existing customers across a range of products. Revenue in our Payments segment increased $1,595 million, or 41%, in 2020 and increased $1,501 million, or 62%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Revenue from acquired businesses, including First Data, contributed 41% and 57% to Payments segment revenue growth in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Payments segment revenue in 2020 was adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic while the remaining growth in 2019 was driven by expansion in our recurring revenue businesses, with our card services and electronic payments businesses contributing 4% and 1%, respectively. Revenue at Corporate and Other increased $160 million, or 21%, in 2020 and increased $267 million, or 54%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Postage revenue from the First Data acquisition contributed 44% and 56% to the Corporate and Other growth in 2020 and 2019, respectively, while the disposition of a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business reduced revenue growth by 19% in 2020. Total Expenses Total expenses increased $4,422 million, or 52%, in 2020 and increased $4,508 million, or 111%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue was 87.5%, 84.2% and 69.9% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Total expenses in 2020 and 2019 contain the incremental expenses, including acquired intangible asset amortization, of First Data from the date of acquisition, resulting in the overall significant increase in expenses compared to the prior years. The incremental expenses during 2020 from the First Data acquisition were primarily due to 2020 containing seven more months of expenses from First Data as compared to 2019. Total expenses were reduced by a $428 million gain on sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business and a $36 million gain on the dissolution of the BAMS joint venture in 2020, and a $227 million gain on sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business in 2018. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was 47.8%, 46.8% and 46.7% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Expense management in our recurring revenue businesses favorably impacted cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue in both 2020 and 2019 compared to the prior years. Conversely, cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue increased in 2020 by approximately 200 basis points, from integration-related expenses associated with the First Data acquisition, including $118 million of accelerated depreciation and amortization associated with the termination of certain vendor contracts, and by approximately 100 basis points from incremental First Data acquisition intangible amortization. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue increased in 2019 by approximately 70 basis points from expenses shifting from cost of product to cost of processing as financial institutions continue to move from in-house technology to outsourced solutions, and by approximately 60 basis points from a non-cash impairment charge related to an international core processing platform. Client-focused incremental investments increased cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue in 2018 by approximately 50 basis points. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue was 74.7%, 80.1% and 87.9% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The reduction in cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in 2020 and 2019 was driven by the First Data acquisition. In addition, cost of product as a percentage of product revenue in 2019 decreased by approximately 400 basis points due to expenses shifting from cost of product to cost of processing and services as financial institutions continue to move from in-house technology to outsourced solutions, and increased by approximately 300 basis points from a decrease in higher-margin software license revenue as compared to 2018. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue was 38.1%, 32.2% and 21.1% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Incremental acquired intangible asset amortization from the First Data acquisition increased selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 600 basis points in each of 2020 and 2019. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue in 2020 increased by approximately 120 basis points from higher integration-related expenses, which was largely offset by synergy related cost reductions. The remaining increase in 2019 was due to increased costs associated with the First Data acquisition, including integration-related expenses. The gains on sale of businesses of $464 million, $15 million and $227 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, primarily resulted from the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business in February 2020, the dissolution of the BAMS joint venture in July 2020, and the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business in March 2018, including contingent consideration received in 2019. 41 Table of Contents Operating Income and Operating Margin Total operating income increased $243 million, or 15%, in 2020 and decreased $144 million, or 8%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Total operating margin decreased to 12.5% in 2020 from 15.8% in 2019 and 30.1% in 2018. Operating income in our Acceptance segment was $764 million in 2019 and increased $663 million, or 87%, in 2020, driven by the acquisition of First Data. Operating margin was 25.9% and 29.7% in 2020 and 2019, respectively, decreasing 380 basis points in 2020 compared to the prior year. Operating income and margin in our Acceptance segment, which earns transaction-based fees, was adversely affected in the last two weeks of March and throughout the remainder of 2020 due to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Merchant acquiring transaction and payment volumes and related operating income began to partially recover in May 2020 and continued to improve into July 2020; thereafter, the monthly volume growth rate as compared to the prior year stabilized for the balance of the year. Operating income in our Fintech segment increased $107 million, or 12%, in 2020 and increased $34 million, or 4%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Operating margin was 34.2%, 30.1% and 29.2% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, increasing 410 basis points in 2020 and increasing 90 basis points in 2019 compared to the prior years. Fintech segment operating margin improvement in 2020 compared to 2019 was driven by expense management across the segment, including technology and vendor synergy savings of approximately 330 basis points and additional expense reductions attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic of approximately 120 basis points, partially offset by approximately 100 basis points from a reduction in contract termination fee revenue. Fintech segment operating margin improvement in 2019 compared to 2018 was driven by expense management efforts in our Fintech international businesses of approximately 100 basis points, partially offset by approximately 70 basis points from a reduction in higher-margin software license revenue. Client-focused incremental investments reduced Fintech segment operating margin in 2018 by approximately 40 basis points. Operating income in our Payments segment increased $703 million, or 42%, in 2020 and increased $577 million, or 53%, in 2019 compared to the prior years. Operating margin was 42.9%, 42.4% and 44.9% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, increasing 50 basis points in 2020 and decreasing 250 basis points in 2019 compared to the prior years. The reduction in Payments segment operating margin in 2019 was primarily attributable to the acquisition of First Data, while the impact of cost synergies drove the margin expansion in 2020. The operating loss in Corporate and Other increased $1,230 million in 2020 and increased $1,519 million in 2019 compared to the prior years. The increase in Corporate and Other operating loss was primarily due to the acquisition of First Data, including incremental amortization of acquired intangible assets of $1,035 million and $799 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, incremental acquisition and integration-related costs of $441 million and $275 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively, and other First Data related corporate expenses since the date of acquisition. Corporate and Other was favorably impacted by gains from sales of businesses of $464 million, $15 million and $227 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and negatively impacted in 2019 by a $48 million non-cash impairment charge related to an international core processing platform. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net increased $236 million, or 50%, in 2020 and increased $284 million, or 150%, in 2019 compared to prior years, primarily due to the June 2019 issuance of $9.0 billion of fixed-rate senior notes, the July 2019 issuance of 1.5 billion and 1.05 billion of fixed-rate senior notes and the term loan borrowings that were incurred for the purpose of funding the repayment of certain indebtedness of First Data and its subsidiaries on the closing date of the acquisition, as well as the September 2018 issuance of $2.0 billion of fixed-rate notes. Debt Financing Activities In connection with the merger agreement entered into on January 16, 2019 to acquire First Data, we entered into a bridge facility commitment letter providing for a 364-day senior unsecured bridge term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $17.0 billion for the purpose of refinancing certain indebtedness of First Data on the closing date of the acquisition. We recorded $98 million of expense in 2019 associated with the bridge term loan facility and other refinancing and related activities in connection with the acquisition of First Data. In addition, in 2019 we recorded $50 million of net foreign currency transaction gains related to our foreign currency-denominated debt. In 2018, we completed a cash tender offer for and redemption of our then-outstanding $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due 2020, which resulted in a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $14 million. 42 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense) Other income (expense) increased $34 million in 2020 and decreased $11 million in 2019 compared to prior years. Other income (expense) includes net foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains or losses from a change in fair value of investments in certain equity securities, and amounts related to the release of risk under our non-contingent guarantee arrangements and changes in the provision of estimated credit losses associated with certain indebtedness of the Lending Joint Ventures. In addition, other income includes $19 million in 2020 related to a pre-tax gain on the sale of certain lease receivables. Income Tax Provision Income tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was 16.7%, 18.3% and 24.3% in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2020 compared to 2019 was primarily the result of foreign income tax benefits from a subsidiary restructuring, partially offset by the impact of an increase in the United Kingdom corporate income tax rate from 17% to 19% in 2020. The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2019 compared to the prior year is primarily related to equity compensation-related tax benefits, as well as discrete benefits due to a loss from subsidiary restructuring. Income from Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Our share of net income or loss from affiliates accounted for using the equity method of accounting, including merchant bank alliance affiliates from the acquisition of First Data, is reported as income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and the related tax expense or benefit is reported within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of income. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates, including acquired intangible asset amortization from valuations in purchase accounting, was $0 million, $29 million and $10 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests relates to the ownership interest of our alliance partners in our consolidated results, obtained through the acquisition of First Data. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, including acquired intangible asset amortization from valuations in purchase accounting, was $17 million and $21 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Net Income Per Share - Diluted Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted was $1.40, $1.71 and $2.87 in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted in 2020 included integration costs and acquired intangible asset amortization from the application of purchase accounting associated with the acquisition of First Data, as well as gains from the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business in February 2020 and the dissolution of the BAMS joint venture in July 2020. Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted in 2019 included transaction costs and financing activities associated with the acquisition of First Data, as well as integration costs and acquired asset amortization after the date of acquisition. Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted was favorably impacted in 2018 by a gain on the sale of a 55% interest of our Lending Solutions business. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs in the ordinary course of business are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness, including finance leases; and (iii) fund capital expenditures and operating lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of $906 million and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility of $3.4 billion at December 31, 2020. The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In millions) 2020 2019 $ % Net income $ 975 $ 914 $ 61 Depreciation and amortization 3,257 1,778 1,479 Net foreign currency gain on financing activities (50) 50 Share-based compensation 369 229 140 Deferred income taxes 71 47 24 Gain on sale of businesses (464) (15) (449) Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates (29) 29 Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates 42 23 19 Settlement of interest rate hedge contracts (183) 183 Non-cash impairment charges 124 48 76 Net changes in working capital and other (227) 33 (260) Operating cash flow $ 4,147 $ 2,795 $ 1,352 48 % Capital expenditures, including capitalized software and other intangibles $ 900 $ 721 $ 179 25 % Our net cash provided by operating activities, or operating cash flow, was $4.1 billion in 2020, an increase of 48% compared with $2.8 billion in 2019. This increase was primarily attributable to the acquisition of First Data. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2019 included a payment of $183 million associated with the settlement of treasury lock agreements related to refinancing certain indebtedness assumed as part of the First Data acquisition. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately 6% and 7% of our total revenue in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Share Repurchases In December 2020, New Omaha Holdings L.P. ("New Omaha"), a shareholder of ours, completed an underwritten secondary public offering of 20.1 million shares of our common stock (the offering). We repurchased from the underwriters 1.8 million shares of our common stock that were subject to the offering. The share repurchase totaled $200 million and was funded with cash on hand. The repurchased shares were cancelled and no longer outstanding following the completion of the share repurchase. In 2019, we deferred share repurchases as of January 16, 2019 until the close of the First Data acquisition. We purchased a total of $1.6 billion and $394 million of our common stock in 2020 and 2019, respectively. On November 19, 2020, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 60.0 million shares of our common stock. At December 31, 2020, we had approximately 65.7 million shares remaining under our current repurchase authorizations. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans. Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisitions On March 2, 2020, we acquired MerchantPro, an ISO that provides processing services, POS equipment and merchant cash advances to businesses across the United States. MerchantPro is included within the Acceptance segment and further expands our merchant services business. On March 18, 2020, we acquired Bypass, an ISO and innovator in enterprise POS systems for sports and entertainment venues, food service management providers and national restaurant chains. Bypass is included within the Acceptance segment and further enhances our omni-commerce capabilities, enabling enterprise businesses to deliver a seamless customer experience that spans physical and digital channels. On May 11, 2020, we acquired Inlet, a provider of secure digital delivery solutions for enterprise and middle-market billers invoices and statements. Inlet is included within the Payments segment and further enhances our digital bill payment strategy. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $167 million, net of $2 million of acquired cash, and including earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $45 million. We funded these acquisitions by utilizing a combination of available cash and existing availability under our revolving credit facility. 43 Table of Contents On July 29, 2019, we acquired First Data for a total purchase price of $46.5 billion by acquiring 100% of the First Data stock that was issued and outstanding as of the date of acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, First Data stockholders received 286 million shares of common stock of Fiserv, Inc., at an exchange ratio of 0.303 shares of Fiserv, Inc. for each share of First Data common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. We also converted 15 million outstanding First Data equity awards into corresponding equity awards relating to common stock of Fiserv, Inc. in accordance with the exchange ratio. In addition, concurrent with the closing of the acquisition, we made a cash payment of $16.4 billion to repay existing First Data debt. We funded the transaction-related expenses and the repayment of First Data debt through a combination of available cash on-hand, proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, and term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings. The acquisition of First Data, included within the Acceptance and Payments segments, increases our footprint as a global payments and financial technology provider by expanding the portfolio of services provided to financial institutions, corporate and merchant clients and consumers. On October 31, 2018, we acquired the debit card processing, ATM Managed Services, and MoneyPass surcharge-free network of Elan Financial Services, a unit of U.S. Bancorp, for approximately $659 million including post-closing working capital adjustments, estimated contingent consideration related to earn-out provisions and future payments under a transition services agreement in excess of estimated fair value. This acquisition, included within the Payments segment, deepens our presence in debit card processing, broadens our client reach and scale and provides new solutions to enhance the value proposition for our existing debit solution clients. On January 22, 2021, we acquired Ondot Systems, Inc., a digital experience platform provider for financial institutions. This acquisition, to be included within the Payments segment, will further expand our digital capabilities, enhancing our suite of integrated solutions spanning card-based payments, digital banking platforms, core banking, and merchant solutions to enable clients of all sizes to deliver frictionless, digital-first and personalized experiences to their customers. Dispositions Effective July 1, 2020, we and BANA dissolved the BAMS joint venture, of which we maintained a 51% controlling ownership interest. Upon dissolution of the joint ventures operations, the joint venture transferred a proportionate share of value, primarily the client contracts, to each party via an agreed upon contractual separation. The remaining activities of the joint venture will consist of supporting the transition of the business to each party and an orderly wind down of remaining BAMS assets and liabilities. The revenues and expenses of the BAMS joint venture were consolidated into our financial results through the date of dissolution. The business transferred to us will continue to be operated and managed within our Acceptance segment. We will continue to provide merchant processing and related services to former BAMS clients allocated to BANA, at BAMS pricing, through June 2023. We will also provide processing and other support services to new BANA merchant clients pursuant to a five-year non-exclusive agreement which, after June 2023, will also apply to the former BAMS clients allocated to BANA. In addition, both companies are entitled to certain transition services, at fair value, from each other through June 2023. On February 18, 2020, we sold a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business, subsequently renamed as Tegra118, LLC. We received pre-tax proceeds of $578 million, net of related expenses, resulting in a pre-tax gain on the sale of $428 million, with a related tax expense of $112 million. The net proceeds from the sale were primarily used to repurchase shares of our common stock. On February 2, 2021, Tegra118 completed a merger with a third party, resulting in a dilution of our ownership interest in the combined new entity, Wealthtech Holdings, LLC. In connection with the acquisition of First Data, we acquired two businesses which we intended to sell. In October 2019, we completed the sales, at acquired fair value, of these two businesses for aggregate proceeds of $133 million. On March 29, 2018, we sold a 55% controlling interest of our Lending Solutions business, retaining 45% ownership interests in two joint ventures. We received gross sale proceeds of $419 million from the transactions. In August 2019, the Sagent Auto, LLC joint venture, formerly known as Fiserv Automotive Solutions, LLC, completed a merger with a third party, resulting in the dilution of our ownership interest to 31% in the combined entity, defi SOLUTIONS Group, LLC. The Lending Joint Ventures maintain variable-rate term loan facilities with aggregate outstanding borrowings of $385 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $45 million with a syndicate of banks, which mature in March 2023. Outstanding borrowings on the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2020 were $13 million. We have guaranteed this debt of the Lending Joint Ventures and do not anticipate that the Lending Joint Ventures will fail to fulfill their debt obligations. We maintain a liability for the estimated fair value of our non-contingent obligations to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantee arrangements with the Lending Joint Ventures. Such guarantees will be amortized in future periods over the contractual term, based upon amounts to be received by us for the respective guarantees. In addition, we 44 Table of Contents maintain a contingent liability representing the current expected credit losses to which we are exposed. This contingent liability is estimated based on certain financial metrics of the Lending Joint Ventures and historical industry data, which is used to develop assumptions of the likelihood the guaranteed parties will default and the level of credit losses in the event a default occurs. We have not made any payments under the guarantees, nor have we been called upon to do so. In addition, in January 2018, we completed the sale of the retail voucher business acquired in our 2017 acquisition of Monitise for proceeds of 37 million ($50 million). Indebtedness Our debt consisted of the following at December 31: (In millions) 2020 2019 Short-term and current maturities of long-term debt: Lines of credit $ 144 $ 150 Finance lease and other financing obligations 240 137 Total short-term and current maturities of long-term debt $ 384 $ 287 Long-term debt: 2.700% senior notes due June 2020 $ $ 850 4.750% senior notes due June 2021 400 400 3.500% senior notes due October 2022 700 700 3.800% senior notes due October 2023 1,000 1,000 0.375% senior notes due July 2023 (Euro-denominated) 612 559 2.750% senior notes due July 2024 2,000 2,000 3.850% senior notes due June 2025 900 900 2.250% senior notes due July 2025 (British Pound-denominated) 709 687 3.200% senior notes due July 2026 2,000 2,000 2.250% senior notes due June 2027 1,000 1.125% senior notes due July 2027 (Euro-denominated) 612 559 4.200% senior notes due October 2028 1,000 1,000 3.500% senior notes due July 2029 3,000 3,000 2.650% senior notes due June 2030 1,000 1.625% senior notes due July 2030 (Euro-denominated) 612 559 3.000% senior notes due July 2031 (British Pound-denominated) 709 687 4.400% senior notes due July 2049 2,000 2,000 Receivable securitized loan 425 500 Term loan facility 1,250 3,950 Unamortized discount and deferred financing costs (155) (160) Revolving credit facility 22 174 Finance lease and other financing obligations 504 247 Total long-term debt $ 20,300 $ 21,612 At December 31, 2020, our debt consisted primarily of $18.3 billion of fixed rate senior notes and $1.3 billion of variable rate term loan. Interest on our U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes is paid semi-annually, while interest on our Euro- and British Pound-denominated senior notes is paid annually. Interest on our revolving credit facility is paid weekly, or more frequently on occasion, and interest on our term loans is paid monthly. Our 4.75% senior notes due in June 2021 were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as long-term, as we have the intent to refinance this debt on a long-term basis and the ability to do so under our revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2023. We were in compliance with all financial debt covenants during 2020. Our ability to meet future debt covenant requirements will depend on our continued ability to generate earnings and cash flows. As described below, the COVID-19 pandemic has created significant uncertainty as to general economic and market conditions. We expect to remain in compliance with all terms and conditions associated with our outstanding debt, including financial debt covenants. 45 Table of Contents Senior Notes We have outstanding $18.3 billion of various fixed-rate senior notes, as described above. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other matters, limit (i) our ability to consolidate or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our properties and assets to, another person, (ii) our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to create or assume liens, and (iii) our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to engage in sale and leaseback transactions. We may, at our option, redeem the senior notes, in whole or from time to time in part, at any time prior to the applicable maturity date. The interest rate applicable to certain of the senior notes is subject to an increase of up to two percent in the event that the credit rating assigned to such notes is downgraded below investment grade. On May 13, 2020, we completed an offering of $2.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.25% senior notes due in June 2027 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.65% senior notes due in June 2030. The indentures governing the senior notes contain covenants that are substantially the same as those set forth in our senior notes described above. We used the net proceeds from these senior notes offerings to repay the outstanding principal balance of $850 million under our 2.7% senior notes due in June 2020 and outstanding borrowings under our amended and restated revolving credit facility totaling $1.1 billion. On June 24, 2019 and July 1, 2019, we completed various offerings of senior notes for the purpose of funding the repayment of certain indebtedness of First Data and its subsidiaries on the closing date of the acquisition. Such offerings consisted of the following: (In millions) Interest Rates Maturities Aggregate Principal Amount U.S. dollar denominated senior notes 2.750% - 4.400% July 2024 - 2049 $ 9,000 Euro denominated senior notes 0.375% - 1.625% July 2023 - 2030 1,500 British Pound denominated senior notes 2.250% - 3.000% July 2025 - 2031 1,050 We used a portion of the net proceeds from the senior note offerings described above in June 2019 to repay outstanding borrowings totaling $790 million under our amended and restated revolving credit facility. On July 29, 2019, concurrent with the acquisition of First Data, we used the remaining net proceeds from the 2019 senior notes offerings described above, as well as the net proceeds of the term loan facility and a drawing on our revolving credit facility described below, to repay $16.4 billion of existing First Data debt and to pay fees and our expenses related to such repayment, the First Data acquisition and related transactions. In March 2019, we entered into treasury lock agreements (Treasury Locks), designated as cash flow hedges, in the aggregate notional amount of $5.0 billion to manage exposure to fluctuations in benchmark interest rates. On June 24, 2019, concurrent with the issuance of the U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes described above, the Treasury Locks were settled resulting in a payment of $183 million that will be amortized to earnings over the terms of the originally forecasted interest payments. In June 2019, we entered into foreign exchange forward contracts to minimize foreign currency exposure to the Euro and British Pound upon settlement of the proceeds from the foreign currency-denominated senior notes, as described above. The foreign exchange forward contracts matured on July 1, 2019, concurrent with the closing of the offering of the foreign currency-denominated senior notes. We realized foreign currency transaction gains of $3 million from these foreign exchange forward contracts. In addition, we held a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of these foreign currency-denominated senior notes in Euro- and British Pound-denominated cash and cash equivalents. We realized foreign currency transaction losses of $19 million as a result of changes in the U.S. dollar equivalent of the Euro- and British Pound-denominated cash due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In September 2018, we completed an offering of $2.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 3.8% senior notes due in October 2023 and $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 4.2% senior notes due in October 2028. We used the net proceeds from such offering to repay the outstanding principal balance of $540 million under our then-existing term loan and the then-outstanding borrowings under our amended and restated revolving credit facility totaling $1.1 billion. In addition, we commenced a cash tender offer in September 2018 for any and all of our then-outstanding $450 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes due October 2020. Upon expiration of the tender offer on September 26, 2018, $246 million was tendered. In October 2018, we retired the remaining outstanding $204 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625% senior notes. We recorded a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $14 million during the year ended December 31, 2018 related to these activities. 46 Table of Contents Term Loan Facility On February 15, 2019, we entered into a term loan credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions pursuant to which such financial institutions committed to provide us with a senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $5.0 billion, consisting of $1.5 billion in commitments to provide loans with a term of three years and $3.5 billion in commitments to provide loans with a term of five years. On July 29, 2019, concurrent with the closing of the acquisition of First Data, the term loan credit agreement was funded. Loans drawn under the term loan facility are subject to amortization at a quarterly rate of 1.25% for the first eight quarters and 1.875% each quarter thereafter (with loans outstanding under the five-year tranche subject to amortization at a quarterly rate of 2.5% after the fourth anniversary of the commencement of amortization), with accrued and unpaid amortization amounts required to be paid on the last business day in December of each year. Borrowings under the term loan facility bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus in each case, a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the term loan facility borrowings was 1.41% at December 31, 2020. The term loan credit facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default, that are substantially the same as those set forth in our existing amended revolving credit facility, as described below. Revolving Credit Facility We maintain an amended and restated revolving credit facility, which matures in September 2023, with aggregate commitments available for $3.5 billion of total capacity. Borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or a base rate, plus in each case a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the revolving credit facility borrowings was 1.18% at December 31, 2020. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The amended and restated revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants that require us, among other things, to (i) limit our consolidated indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to no more than three and one-half times our consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash charges and expenses and certain other adjustments (EBITDA) during the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, subject to certain exceptions, and (ii) maintain EBITDA of at least three times our consolidated interest expense as of the end of each fiscal quarter for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended. On February 6, 2019, we entered into an amendment to our amended and restated revolving credit facility to (i) amend the maximum leverage ratio covenant to permit us to elect to increase the permitted maximum leverage ratio from three and one-half times our consolidated EBITDA to either four times or four and one-half times our consolidated EBITDA for a specified period following certain acquisitions and (ii) permit us to make drawings under the revolving credit facility on the closing date of our acquisition of First Data subject to only limited conditions. In November 2019, we elected to increase the permitted maximum leverage ratio to four times our consolidated EBITDA pursuant to the terms of the amendment described above. Foreign Lines of Credit and Other Arrangements We maintain certain short-term lines of credit with foreign banks and alliance partners primarily to fund settlement activity. These arrangements are primarily associated with international operations and are in various functional currencies, the most significant of which are the Australian dollar, Polish zloty, Euro and Argentine peso. We had amounts outstanding on these lines of credit totaling $144 million and $150 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 21.98% and 13.42% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Receivable Securitized Loan We maintain a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary, First Data Receivables, LLC (FDR). FDR is a party to certain receivables financing arrangements, including an agreement (Receivables Financing Agreement) with certain financial institutions and other persons from time to time party thereto as lenders and group agents, pursuant to which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have agreed to transfer and contribute receivables to FDR, and FDR in turn may obtain borrowings from the financial institutions and other lender parties to the Receivables Financing Agreement secured by liens on those receivables. FDRs assets are not available to satisfy the obligations of any other of our entities or affiliates, and FDRs creditors would be entitled, upon its liquidation, to be satisfied out of FDRs assets prior to any assets or value in FDR becoming available to us. FDR held $811 million and $773 million in receivables as part of the securitization program at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. FDR utilized the receivables as collateral in borrowings of $425 million and $500 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, at an average interest rate of 1.00% and 2.61%, respectively. At December 31, 2020, the collateral capacity under the Receivables Financing Agreement was $625 million, and the maximum borrowing capacity was $500 million. The term of the Receivables Financing Agreement is through July 2022. 47 Table of Contents Other Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital, our ability to refinance maturing debt and our ability to fund future acquisitions. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our debt securities, perception of our potential future earnings and the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2020, we had a corporate credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) and BBB with a stable outlook from Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) on our senior unsecured debt securities. The interest rates payable on certain of our senior notes, our term loans and our revolving credit facility are subject to adjustment from time to time if Moodys or S&P changes the debt rating applicable to the notes. If the ratings from Moodys or S&P decrease below investment grade, the per annum interest rates on the senior notes are subject to increase by up to two percent. In no event will the total increase in the per annum interest rates exceed two percent above the original interest rates, nor will the per annum interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate applicable to the senior notes. Cash and Cash Equivalents Investments (other than those included in settlement assets) with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to cash are considered to be cash equivalents. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we held $906 million and $893 million in cash and cash equivalents, respectively. The table below details the cash and cash equivalents at December 31: 2020 2019 (In millions) Domestic International Total Domestic International Total Available $ 337 $ 177 $ 514 $ 383 $ 208 $ 591 Unavailable (1) 57 335 392 130 172 302 Total $ 394 $ 512 $ 906 $ 513 $ 380 $ 893 (1) Represents cash held primarily by our joint ventures that is not available to fund operations outside of those entities unless the board of directors for said entities declares a dividend, as well as cash held by certain other entities that are subject to foreign exchange controls in certain countries or regulatory capital requirements. Employee Termination Costs In connection with the acquisition of First Data, we continue to implement integration plans focused on reducing our overall cost structure, including eliminating duplicate costs. We recorded $131 million and $32 million of employee termination costs related to severance and other separation costs for terminated employees in connection with the acquisition of First Data during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Accrued employee severance and other separation costs of $27 million at December 31, 2020 are expected to be paid within the next twelve months. We continue to evaluate operating efficiencies and anticipate incurring additional costs in connection with these activities, but are unable to estimate those amounts at this time as such plans are not yet finalized. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant uncertainty as to general global economic and market conditions. We believe we have adequate capital resources and sufficient access to external financing sources to satisfy our current and reasonably anticipated requirements for funds to conduct our operations and meet other needs in the ordinary course of our business. However, as the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the economy and our operations evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. The ability to continue to service debt and meet lease and other obligations as they come due is dependent on our continued ability to generate earnings and cash flows. A lack of continued recovery or further deterioration in economic and market conditions could materially affect our future access to our sources of liquidity, particularly our cash flows from operations. We engage in regular communication with the banks that participate in our revolving credit facility. During these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. We periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. As evidenced by our May 2020 senior notes offering described above, the long-term debt markets have historically provided us with a source of liquidity. Although we do not currently 48 Table of Contents anticipate an inability to obtain financing from long-term debt markets in the future, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic could make financing more difficult and/or expensive to obtain. Our ability to access the long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms also depends on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we had a corporate credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and BBB with a stable outlook from Standard & Poors Rating Services. In the event that the ratings of our outstanding long-term debt securities were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lower than those noted above, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets could be adversely affected and our interest expense could increase under the terms of certain of our long-term debt securities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations We do not participate in, nor have we created, any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing. The following table details our contractual obligations at December 31, 2020: (In millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Long-term debt including interest (1) (2) $ 25,957 $ 899 $ 4,470 $ 5,770 $ 14,818 Minimum finance lease payments (1) 410 107 201 99 3 Minimum operating lease payments (1) (3) 657 136 223 152 146 Purchase obligations (1) 1,889 608 787 328 166 Income tax obligations 171 61 46 29 35 Total $ 29,084 $ 1,811 $ 5,727 $ 6,378 $ 15,168 (1) Interest, finance lease, operating lease and purchase obligations are reported on a pre-tax basis. (2) The calculations assume that only mandatory debt repayments are made, no additional refinancing or lending occurs, except for our 4.75% notes due in June 2021 as we have the intent to refinance this debt on a long-term basis and the ability to do so under our revolving credit facility maturing in September 2023, and the variable rate on the revolving credit facility and term loans are priced at the rate in effect at December 31, 2020. (3) Excludes $30 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for finance leases that have been signed but not yet commenced.