Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic can be found under Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Strategy Our aspiration is to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework: Client Relationship Value . We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products and services; introducing new products and services that are aligned with market needs; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and delivering quality service and support for our clients. Innovation . We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry and enable our clients to deliver best-in-class results. Operational Effectiveness . We believe we can further improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. Portfolio Management . We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. Capital Discipline . We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions. 6 Table of Contents Servicing the Market The financial technology industry is highly dynamic, with new innovations entering the market and driving the expectations of our clients globally. The markets for our solutions have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on quality, security, service reliability, timely introduction of new capabilities and features, flexibility and value. This requires us to continue our strong emphasis on solution development to meet and exceed the specific needs of our clients. We believe that our financial strength and decades of specialized market knowledge enable us to support our clients to meet their changing preferences. In addition, we believe that our focus on quality, innovation, client service and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients. Product Development To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. Our development and technology operations apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our products and solutions are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific merchant and financial services environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create efficiencies, and we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients. Resources Our business depends on a variety of resources to operate including products and services provided to us by third parties. For example, we rely on our human capital resources for product development (including product design and coding), sales, operations (including customer service, technology support, security and compliance) and management; access to financial and telecommunication networks; computers, servers, mainframes, microchips and other computer equipment; and Clover and other POS devices. We periodically review our resource requirements and sources, as well as our relationships with key vendors, to best meet the needs of our business including global sourcing efforts and alternate supplier resourcing. We believe we have access to the resources necessary for our current business needs. More information regarding supply chain risks can be found under the heading Competitive and Business Risks in the Risk Factors section of this report and our human capital resources can be found below under Human Capital. Intellectual Property We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we use a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices, employee confidentiality and assignment agreements, and third-party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. Our patents cover innovations relating to numerous financial software and hardware products and services, and we continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our ongoing innovations. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business. Competition The market for technology products and services in the industries we serve is fragmented, highly competitive, and served by a multitude of large and small firms. Our principal competitors include other large, integrated providers of financial services technology and payment systems, data processing affiliates of large companies, processing centers owned or operated as user cooperatives, financial institutions, merchant acquirers, ISOs, ISVs, payments companies and payment network operators. Our competitors also include global and local IT product and services companies and payment service providers and processors. We expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand or consolidate their product lines and services. Some of these competitors possess substantial financial, sales and marketing resources and can compete with us in various ways, including through the use of integrated product offerings and through pricing and long-standing relationships. Depending on the product or service, competitive factors may include quality, security, innovation, breadth or novelty of features and functionality, client satisfaction, market opportunity, integration, reliability, agility, global reach, multiple distribution channels, service reliability and performance standards, timely introduction of new products and features, platform scalability and flexibility, and value. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. Additional information about competition in our segments is provided below. 7 Table of Contents Acceptance Our Acceptance segment competes with merchant acquirers as well as with financial institutions that provide acquiring and processing services to businesses on their own. In many cases, our alliance and commercial partners, such as ISOs and ISVs, compete against each other. We also compete with merchant services providers, and in a number of international markets, our Acceptance segment competes with a growing number of local and regional providers. In addition, payment networks and large technology, media and other providers are increasingly offering products and services that compete with our suite of merchant acquiring solutions. Fintech Our products and services in the Fintech segment compete with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. Existing and potential financial institution clients could also develop and use their own in-house systems. In addition, we compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions. Payments The businesses in our Payments segment primarily compete with businesses that offer consumer payment solutions and a number of payment and card issuer processors. In addition to traditional payments competitors, large technology, media and other emerging financial technology providers are increasingly seeking to provide alternative payment and financing solutions. Existing and potential financial institution and other corporate clients could also develop and use their own in-house systems or custom-designed solutions instead of our products and services. Government Regulation Our operations, and the products and services that we offer, are subject to various U.S. federal, state and local regulation, as well as regulation outside the U.S., and to other rules, such as those promulgated by various payment networks and banking authorities. Failure to comply with these rules and regulations may result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of service and the imposition of civil and criminal penalties, including fines. In addition, we may be required, among other things, to make significant additional investments to comply with such rules and regulations, to modify our products or services or the manner in which they are provided, or to limit or change the amount or types of revenue we are able to generate. Financial Institution Regulations. Because a number of our businesses provide data processing services for financial institutions, we are subject to examination by the U.S. Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC), which is a formal interagency body empowered to examine significant service providers to financial institutions. The member agencies of the FFIEC include the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the National Credit Union Administration, and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial laws, some of which apply to products and services offered by our clients. We are also subject to examination by the first three of these agencies which refer to themselves as the Federal Banking Agencies when acting together. A subsidiary that engages in trust activities is subject to regulation, examination and oversight by the Division of Banking of the Colorado Department of Regulatory Agencies. In the U.S., we are also subject to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which, among other things, caps debit interchange rates for certain card issuers; prohibits debit payment card networks from restricting card issuers from contracting with other payment card networks; prohibits card issuers and payment networks from restricting the ability of merchants to direct the routing of debit card transactions; requires all debit card issuers in the U.S. to participate in at least two unaffiliated debit payment card networks; and generally prohibits network exclusivity arrangements for prepaid card and healthcare debit card issuers. These regulations impact our card processing businesses and our clients ability to generate revenue. A number of our subsidiaries hold payment institution licenses, electronic money licenses or similar licenses in the countries in which such subsidiaries do business. These subsidiaries are subject to regulation and oversight in the applicable countries, which may include, among other obligations, a requirement to maintain specified regulatory capital. In addition, several subsidiaries outside of the U.S. provide services such as merchant terminal leasing, debit processing, acquiring, issuing, factoring and settlement that make them subject to regulation by financial services supervisory agencies, including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in the United Kingdom (U.K.), the Federal Financial Supervision Agency in Germany, the National Bank of Poland, the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Monetary Authority of Singapore. 8 Table of Contents Association and Network Rules. We are subject to rules of Mastercard, Visa, INTERAC, PULSE and other payment networks. In order to provide processing services, a number of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and/or Mastercard as service providers for member institutions. A number of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are direct members or associate members of Visa and Mastercard for purposes of conducting merchant acquiring. Various subsidiaries are also processor level members of numerous debit and electronic benefits transaction networks or are otherwise subject to various network rules in connection with processing services and other services we provide. As such, we are subject to applicable card association, network and national scheme rules that could subject us to fines or penalties. We are subject to network operating rules promulgated by Nacha relating to payment transactions processed by us using the ACH network and to various federal and state laws regarding such operations, including laws pertaining to electronic benefits transactions. Privacy and Information Security Regulations. We provide services that are subject to various federal, state and foreign privacy laws and regulations, as well as association and network privacy rules, which govern, among other things, the collection, processing, storage, deletion, use and disclosure of personal information. These laws and rules contain a variety of obligations including the safeguarding of personal information, the provision of notices and use and disclosure rights. The regulations and rules are complex and evolving and can provide for significant penalties or the suspension or termination of our registrations or certifications for non-compliance. In the U.S., we are subject to various federal and state privacy and security laws. The U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) requires financial institutions to explain their information sharing practices to their customers and to safeguard sensitive data. We are subject to the GLBA and have privacy and security obligations to our clients who are regulated by the GLBA. The U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) governs the use and disclosure of protected health information in healthcare treatment, payment and operations by covered entities. We are also subject to the U.S. Federal Trade Commission Act, which empowers the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to prohibit unfair and deceptive privacy practices. In addition to the FTC Act, the FTC is also responsible for overseeing and enforcing the privacy provisions over certain aspects of the GLBA and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), each of which is applicable to our businesses in certain circumstances. In 2021, the FTC issued a final rule amending the FTCs GLBA Safeguards Rule that takes effect in December 2022 and applies to certain non-bank entities under FTC jurisdiction, and may require us to enhance our security measures in some of our operations. In addition, in 2021, the Federal Banking Agencies issued a final rule requiring computer-security incident notifications by banking organizations and bank service providers that takes effect in May 2022 and may require that we enhance our computer-security incident notifications for some of our operations. We also have obligations under state laws, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, which gives California consumers more control over the personal information businesses hold about them, as both a business and as a service provider. In addition, in 2021, Virginia and Colorado passed comprehensive privacy acts to govern the personal data of their residents. We are also subject to the separate security breach notification laws of each of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. In the E.U., we are subject to the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a comprehensive approach to personal data protection with enforcement that can lead to penalties of up to the greater of twenty million Euro or four percent of a companys consolidated global revenue. Following the U.K.s exit from the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union on December 31, 2020, we are also subject to U.K. GDPR. There are numerous additional privacy laws and regulations that apply to our businesses around the world which can provide for significant penalties. Some of these data protection laws, including in the E.U., India, United Arab Emirates and China, impose requirements about data subject rights and security along with restricting the international transfer of personal data absent lawfully recognized transfer mechanisms, or in some cases, prohibits such transfer completely. Money Transmission and Payment Instrument Licensing and Regulations. We are subject to various U.S. federal, state and foreign laws and regulations governing money transmission and the issuance and sale of payment instruments, including some of our prepaid products. In the U.S., most states license money transmitters and issuers of payment instruments. Many states exercise authority over the operations of our services related to money transmission and payment instruments and, as part of this authority, subject us to periodic examinations. Many states require money transmitters, issuers of payment instruments and their agents to comply with federal and state anti-money laundering laws and regulations and often require the licensee to maintain certain levels of net worth. Credit Reporting and Debt Collections Regulations. TeleCheck, our check acceptance business, is subject to FCRA and various similar state laws. The collection business within our subsidiary TRS Recovery Services, Inc. (TRS) is subject to the U.S. federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act and various similar state laws. TRS maintains licenses in a number of states in order to engage in collection in those states. TeleCheck and TRS are also subject to regulation, supervision and examination from the CFPB. Additional regulations may be imposed in the future, including laws regulating activities with respect to current or emerging technology such as automated dialers or pre-recorded messaging or calls to cellular phones, which could impair the 9 Table of Contents collection by TRS of returned checks and those purchased under TeleChecks guarantee services. Moreover, reducing or eliminating access to or the use of certain information or proscribing the maintenance or use of consumer databases could reduce the effectiveness of TeleChecks risk management tools or otherwise increase its costs of doing business. In addition, several of our subsidiaries are subject to comparable local laws regarding collection activities and obtaining credit reports and our U.K. subsidiary described above also holds FCA licenses for debt collection activities. Unfair Trade Practice Regulations. We and our clients are subject to various federal, state and foreign laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive trade practices. Various regulatory enforcement agencies, including the FTC and state attorneys general, have authority to take action against parties that engage in unfair or deceptive trade practices or violate other laws, rules and regulations. If we process payments for a merchant or other client in violation of laws, rules and regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions and incur losses and liabilities that may impact our business. Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Bribery, and Sanctions Regulations. We are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act (the BSA). Among other things, the BSA requires money services businesses (such as money transmitters, issuers of money orders and official checks, and providers of prepaid access) to develop and implement anti-money laundering programs. Our acquiring businesses outside the U.S. are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations in the countries where they operate. Our Money Network Financial, LLC subsidiary provides prepaid access for various open loop prepaid programs for which it is the program manager and therefore must meet the requirements of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We are subject to anti-corruption laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws outside of the U.S. such as the U.K. Bribery Act, that prohibit the making or offering of improper payments to foreign government officials and political figures. The FCPA has a broad reach and requires maintenance of appropriate records and adequate internal controls to prevent and detect possible FCPA violations. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs that are administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, specified countries, governments, individuals and entities that are specially designated nationals of those countries, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Other group entities may be subject to additional local sanctions requirements in other relevant jurisdictions. Similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified in lists maintained by the country equivalents to OFAC lists in several other countries and require specific data retention obligations to be observed by intermediaries in the payment process. Our businesses in those jurisdictions are subject to those data retention obligations. Communications Laws. We are subject to various federal and state laws that govern telephone calls and the issuance of text messages to clients and consumers in the U.S. as well as to regulations that impose requirements on marketing emails sent to U.S residents. Our international subsidiaries are subject to equivalent laws in applicable jurisdictions. Indirect Regulatory Requirements. A number of our clients are subject to various regulations and compliance obligations that do not apply directly to us but impact the services that we provide to our clients. To remain competitive, we have expended, and expect to expend in the future, significant resources to develop and update our products and services to assist our clients to meet various compliance obligations. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients and their auditors. Human Capital As of December 31, 2021, we had over 44,000 employees worldwide, approximately 18,000 of whom were employed outside the U.S. Successful execution of our talent management strategy depends on attracting, developing and retaining highly qualified employees at all levels of our organization. This includes creating a culture committed to diversity and inclusion and employee development, retention, engagement and well-being. Development and Retention We are committed to creating a high-performance culture that consistently delivers excellence for our clients and long-term value for our shareholders while providing a workplace experience for our employees that values leadership, innovation, diversity and collaboration. Our performance management process promotes differentiation based on contributions toward our strategic business objectives and overall success. Career development is an important part of our overall value proposition for employees. We provide employees with opportunities to grow, regardless of job level, within the organization including through targeted online learning, our Leading Women program designed to accelerate the professional growth of female top 10 Table of Contents talent, our Leading Fiserv program designed to develop critical leadership skills for frontline managers, and our Vision to Results leadership program focused on driving our One Fiserv approach to enterprise goals. We also focus on internal mobility and redeployment to retain talented employees and to optimize their opportunities for success. Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to cultivating a diverse, respectful and inclusive workplace. Our diversity and inclusion programs reflect our focus on: Advancing diversity at all levels across the organization, including increasing the representation of women and minorities in leadership positions, requiring consideration of diverse candidates for senior leadership positions, dedicating talent acquisition resources focused on hiring diverse individuals, providing career opportunities to the military community and deepening relationships with historically Black colleges and universities, industry networks, and military and veterans organizations; Promoting employee awareness through: education and participation in diversity and inclusion programs, such as inclusive leader assessment and coaching program to develop the competencies necessary to create an inclusive workplace; eight Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) with over 7,000 members for associates to connect, support each other and elevate their professional development; and a host of diversity and inclusion training courses available to all employees; Investing to support small, minority-owned businesses through financial support, business expertise, leading technology solutions, strategic partnerships and community engagement, including expansion of our Forward Together initiative in 2021 to more U.S. cities and the United Kingdom; and Strengthening partnerships with organizations focused on human rights, racial equity and social justice including work by our ERGs with community organizations and groups to provide mentorship opportunities and serve as force multipliers for talent acquisition, employee engagement and diversity efforts. Engagement To assess employee engagement, we seek and collect employee feedback through employee engagement surveys. These surveys focus on engagement, well-being, client experience, communication, teamwork, manager effectiveness, trust and diversity and inclusion. In addition to assessing engagement, the survey results enable us to gain insight into employee perspectives and issues which we use to enhance processes, set priorities and respond quickly to associate concerns. Well-Being and Safety We are focused on delivering a comprehensive and competitive benefits offering as part of our total rewards strategy. We provide associates with access to a holistic suite of well-being programs and benefits focused on physical, financial, social and emotional resources. These programs are supported by complementary policies such as paid parental and military service leave policies. In addition, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken actions to protect the health, safety and well-being of our employees while maintaining business continuity. These actions include, among others, restricting travel, limiting non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities, providing onsite testing and personal protective equipment to employees, establishing a variety of safety protocols at facilities, and requiring U.S. employees to be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved medical, religious, or state exemption. Available Information Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investors own internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks 11 Table of Contents develop into actual events, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Competitive and Business Risks The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has had, and may continue to have, adverse impacts on our business and may amplify many of our other known risks. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have taken actions to prevent the spread of COVID-19, such as imposing travel restrictions and bans, quarantines, social distancing guidelines, shelter-in-place or lock-down orders and other similar limitations. These measures have, among other matters, negatively impacted consumer and business spending and, as a result, our operating performance, primarily within our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses, which earn transaction-based fees. The pandemic has negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact, transaction volumes, create economic uncertainty and financial market volatility, reduce economic activity, increase unemployment and cause a decline in consumer and business confidence, and could in the future further negatively impact the demand for our products and services, including merchant acquiring and payment processing. Ultimately, the extent of the adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition will depend on, among other matters, the duration and intensity of the pandemic; the level of success of global vaccination efforts; governmental and private sector responses to the pandemic and the impact of such responses on us; and the impact of the pandemic on our employees, clients, vendors, supply chain, operations and sales, all of which are uncertain, difficult to predict and may remain prevalent for a significant period of time even after the pandemic subsides, including due to a continued or prolonged recession in the U.S. or other major economies. Additional factors that could negatively impact us include: Sustained increases in consumer chargebacks associated with processed transactions that merchant clients have submitted but have not fulfilled as an unprecedented number of merchants have been required to suspend or terminate their operations. Merchants may be unable to fund these chargebacks, potentially resulting in losses to us; Disruption to our supply chain and third-party delivery service providers, including if: the factories that manufacture our point-of-sale devices, payment cards or computer chips for payment cards, or paper stock are temporarily closed or experience workforce shortages; shipping services are interrupted or delayed; there are increased lead times, shortages or higher costs for certain materials and components; or there are workforce shortages at our or third-party customer support, software development or technology hosting facilities; Government orders or other restrictions that limit or prohibit us from providing client-facing services from regular service locations, the failure of our business continuity plans, or supply chain issues that prevent us from meeting client service levels, any of which may increase the risk of failing to meet client contractual obligations that could cause loss of revenue, contractual penalties or potential legal disputes; Clients may require additional time to pay us or fail to pay us at all, which could significantly increase the amount of accounts receivable and require us to record additional allowances for doubtful accounts. If clients cease operations or file for bankruptcy protection, we may experience lower revenue and earnings and have greater exposure to future transaction declines; and The possibility of one or more clusters of COVID-19 cases occurring at our data, call, production or operations centers, affecting our employees or affecting the systems or employees of our clients or other third parties on which we depend. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including restricting travel, limiting non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities, providing onsite testing and personal protective equipment to employees, establishing a variety of safety protocols at facilities and requiring U.S. employees to be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved medical, religious, or state exemption. We expect to continue such safety measures for the foreseeable future and may take further actions, or adapt these existing policies, as government authorities may require or recommend or as we may determine to be in the best interest of our employees, clients and vendors. Such measures may impact our productivity or effectiveness, and there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. These and other potential negative impacts relating to the COVID-19 pandemic may also heighten or exacerbate the other risk factors described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 Table of Contents We operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. The markets for our products and services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. Our principal competitors include other vendors and providers of financial services technology and payment systems, data processing affiliates of large companies, processing centers owned or operated as user cooperatives, financial institutions, independent sales organizations (ISOs), independent software vendors, payments companies and payment network operators. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. As a result, we may compete against our existing or potential clients in-house capabilities. In addition, we expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new technologies and well-funded competitors, including large technology, telecommunication, media and other companies not historically in the financial services and payments industries, start-ups and international providers of products and services similar to ours. In addition, participants in the financial services, payments and technology industries may merge, create joint ventures or engage in other business combinations, alliances and consolidations that may strengthen their existing business services or create new payment services that compete with our services. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to keep pace with technological change, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant and rapid technological change, frequent introduction of new products and services, and increasing client expectations. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these demands or achieve market acceptance. We must anticipate and respond to these changes in order to remain competitive within our relevant markets. For example, our ability to provide innovative point-of-sale technology to our merchant clients could have an impact on our merchant acquiring business, and new services and technologies that we develop may be impacted by industry-wide solutions and standards related to tokenization or other safety, fraud prevention and security technologies. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely basis, our ability to remain competitive could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the success of certain of our products and services rely, in part, on financial institutions, corporate and other third parties to promote the use of our products and services by their customers. If we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance and compete effectively, or if third parties insufficiently promote our products and services, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. If we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services or to perform the services in-house. Some of our competitors may offer more attractive prices, features or other services that we do not offer, and some clients may desire to perform the services themselves. Larger clients may be able to seek lower prices from us when they renew or extend a contract or the clients business has significant volume changes. In addition, larger clients may reduce the services we provide if they decide to move services in-house. Further, our small merchant business clients may seek reduced fees due to pricing competition, their own financial condition, or pressures from their customers. On some occasions, these factors result in lower revenue from a client than we had anticipated based on our previous agreement with that client. If we are not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our business depends, in part, on our merchant relationships and alliances, and if we are unable to maintain these relationships and alliances, our business may be adversely affected. Under our alliance program, a bank or other institution forms an alliance with us, generally on an exclusive basis, either contractually or through a separate legal entity. Merchant contracts may be contributed to the alliance by us and/or the bank or institution. The banks and other institutions generally provide card association sponsorship, clearing and settlement services and typically act as a merchant referral source when the institution has an existing banking or other relationship with such merchant. We provide transaction processing and related functions to the alliance. Both we and our alliance partners may also provide management, sales, marketing and other administrative services. The alliance structure allows us to be the processor for multiple financial institutions, any one of which may be selected by the merchant as its bank partner. Our merchant acquiring business depends, in part, on our merchant relationships, alliances and other distribution channels. There can be no guarantee 13 Table of Contents that we will achieve growth in our merchant relationships, alliances or other distribution channels. In addition, our contractual arrangements with merchants and merchant alliance partners are for fixed terms and may allow for early termination upon the occurrence of certain events. There can be no assurance that we will be able to renew our contractual arrangements with these merchants or merchant alliance partners on similar terms or at all. The loss of merchant relationships or alliance partners could negatively impact our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in card association and debit network fees or products could increase costs or otherwise limit our operations. From time to time, card associations and debit networks, including the card networks which we own and operate, increase the processing and other fees (including what is commonly called interchange fees) that they charge. It is possible that competitive and other pressures will result in us absorbing a portion of such increases in the future, or not being able to increase our own fees, which would increase our operating costs, reduce our profit margin, limit our growth, and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the various card associations and networks prescribe certain capital requirements. Any increase in the capital level required would further limit our use of capital for other purposes. Consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. Mergers, consolidations and failures of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. If our clients merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. Our alliance strategy could also be negatively affected by consolidations, especially where the financial institutions involved are committed to their internal merchant processing businesses that compete with us. It is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have an increased ability to negotiate terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational and Security Risks Security incidents or other technological risks involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could expose us to liability or damage our reputation. Our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our employees, our clients and their customers. Under the card network rules, various federal, state and international laws, and client contracts, we are responsible for information provided to us by financial institutions, merchants, ISOs, third-party service providers and others. Preserving the confidentiality of sensitive business and personal information is critical to our business. Any unauthorized access, intrusion, infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar incident could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients, partners or vendors. These incidents are often difficult to detect and are constantly evolving. We expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, and those of our clients, partners and vendors, through various means and with increasing sophistication, particularly as cybercriminals attempt to profit from the disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic given increased online banking, e-commerce and other online activity. These events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, we expect to continue to invest significant resources to maintain and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and that none of the events that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we cannot be certain that the security measures and procedures we have in place to detect security incidents and protect sensitive data, including protection against unauthorized access and use by our employees, will be successful or sufficient to counter all current and emerging technological risks and threats. The impact of a material event involving our systems and data, or those of our clients, partners or vendors, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational failures and resulting interruptions in the implementation or availability of our products or services could harm our business and reputation. Our business depends heavily on the reliability of our processing and other systems. An operational failure and the resulting implementation delays or service interruption could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. An operational failure could involve the hardware, software, data, networks or systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and could be caused by our actions, the actions of third parties or events over which we may have limited or no control. Events that could cause operational failures include, but are not limited to, hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service 14 Table of Contents and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, pandemics, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. In the event of operational failures or damage or disruption to our business due to these occurrences, we may not be able to successfully or quickly recover all of our critical business functions, assets and data through our business continuity program. Implementation delays, interruptions of service or hardware device defects could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits, product recalls or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue, and significantly impact our clients businesses and the customers they serve. In addition, a significant implementation delay, interruption of service or product recall could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. As a provider of payments solutions and other financial services, clients, regulators and others may require specific business continuity and disaster recovery plans including frequent testing of such plans. Meeting these various requirements may require a significant investment of time and money. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions of operations of other participants in the global financial system could prevent us from delivering our products and services. The operations and systems of many participants in the global financial system are interconnected. Many of the transactions involving our products and services rely on multiple participants in the global financial system to move funds and communicate information to the next participant in the transaction chain. A disruption for any reason of the operations of a participant in the global financial system could impact our ability to obtain or provide information or cause funds to be moved in a manner to successfully deliver our products and services. Although we work with other participants to avoid any disruptions, there is no assurance that such efforts will be effective. Such a disruption could lead to our inability to deliver products and services, reputational damage, lost clients and revenue, loss of clients and their customers confidence, as well as additional costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on third parties to provide products and services and if we are unable to obtain such products or services in the future or if these third parties fail to perform these services adequately , our business may be materially and adversely affected. We rely on third parties we do not control to provide us with products and services, including payment card networks, acquiring processors, payment card issuers, financial institutions and the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network which transmit transaction data, process chargebacks and refunds, and perform clearing services in connection with our settlement activities. If, for example, such third parties stop providing clearing services or limit our volumes, we would need to find other financial institutions to provide those services. In the event these third parties fail to provide these services adequately or in a timely manner, including as a result of errors in their systems or events beyond their control, or refuse to provide these services on terms acceptable to us or at all, and we are not able to find timely suitable alternatives, we may no longer be able to provide certain services to customers, which could expose us and our clients to information security, financial, compliance and reputational risks, among others, and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we are unable to renew our existing contracts with key vendors and service providers, we might not be able to replace the related product or service at all or at the same cost, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. Our services are based on sophisticated software and computer systems and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. Further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. We may also experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems or with other programs used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients or client data, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. 15 Table of Contents Global Market Risks Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical and other risks associated with operations outside of the U.S. and, as we continue to expand internationally, we may incur higher than anticipated costs and may become more susceptible to these risks. We offer merchant acquiring, processing and issuing services outside of the U.S., including in the U.K., Germany, Argentina, India and Brazil. Our facilities outside of the U.S., and those of our suppliers and vendors, including manufacturing, customer support, software development and technology hosting facilities, are subject to risks, including natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, terrorism, war, political instability and other events outside of our or our suppliers control. As we continue to expand internationally and grow our client base outside of the U.S., we may face challenges due to the presence of more established competitors and our relative lack of experience in such non-U.S. markets, and we may incur higher than anticipated costs. If we are unable to successfully manage the risks associated with the international operation and expansion of our business, our results of operations and financial condition could be negatively impacted. Our business may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions. For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive revenue primarily from products and services we provide to the financial services industry and from our merchant acquiring business. Given this focus, we are exposed to global economic conditions and adverse economic trends may accelerate the timing, or increase the impact of, risks to our financial performance. Such trends may include, but are not limited to, the following: declining economies, foreign currency fluctuations, inflation, social unrest, natural disasters, public health crises, including the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, and the pace of economic recovery can change consumer spending behaviors, such as cross-border travel patterns, on which a significant portion of our revenues are dependent; low levels of consumer and business confidence typically associated with recessionary environments and those markets experiencing relatively high inflation and/or unemployment, may cause decreased spending by cardholders; budgetary concerns in the U.S. and other countries around the world could affect the U.S. and other specific sovereign credit ratings, impact consumer confidence and spending, and increase the risks of operating in those countries; emerging market economies tend to be more volatile than the more established markets we serve in the U.S. and Europe, and adverse economic trends, including high rates of inflation, may be more pronounced in such emerging markets; financial institutions may restrict credit lines to cardholders or limit the issuance of new cards to mitigate cardholder defaults; uncertainty and volatility in the performance of our clients businesses may make estimates of our revenues, rebates, incentives, and realization of prepaid assets less predictable; our clients may decrease spending for value-added services; and government intervention, including the effect of laws, regulations, treaties and/or government investments in our clients, may have potential negative effects on our business, operations and our relationships with our clients or otherwise alter their strategic direction away from our products. A weakening in the economy or competition from other retailers could also force some retailers to close, resulting in exposure to potential credit losses and declines in transactions, and reduced earnings on transactions due to a potential shift to large discount merchants. Additionally, credit card issuers may reduce credit limits and become more selective in their card issuance practices. A prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process or accounts we service, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In Europe, we are continuing to assess the implications of the United Kingdom leaving the European Union (Brexit). We cannot predict the impact that Brexit, including any future trade agreements, divergence in law or currency fluctuations, will have on our business and our clients, and it is possible that it may adversely affect our operations and financial results. 16 Table of Contents Potential tariffs or trade wars could increase the cost of our products, which could adversely impact the competitiveness of our products and our financial results. The U.S. has imposed tariffs on certain imports from China, including on some of our hardware devices manufactured in China. If the U.S. administration imposes additional tariffs, or if additional tariffs or trade restrictions are implemented by the U.S. or other countries, our hardware devices produced in China could be impacted. Although it is difficult to predict how current or future tariffs on items imported from China or elsewhere will impact our business, the cost of our products manufactured in China and imported into the U.S. or other countries could increase, which in turn could adversely affect the demand for these products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Regulatory and Compliance Risks If we or third parties with whom we partner or contract fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to liability and our business could be harmed. If we or third parties with whom we partner or contract fail to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our business, including state and federal payment, cybersecurity, consumer protection, trade and data privacy laws and regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and our ability to obtain new clients could be inhibited, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our clients are also subject to numerous laws and regulations applicable to banks, financial institutions and card issuers in the U.S. and abroad, and, consequently, we are at times affected by these federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent change, with new laws, regulations and interpretations thereof being implemented. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, federal, state, local and foreign governments issued emergency orders and a significant number of new laws and regulations in a short period of time. These actions have impacted our current operations, including with respect to collection and consumer credit reporting activities, and we have experienced an increased volume of client support requests because many of the new laws impact our clients. We have been required to expend additional resources and incur additional costs to address regulatory requirements applicable to us or our clients, and there could be additional government initiatives to reduce or eliminate payments, costs or fees to merchants, or fees or other sources of revenue to financial institutions, all of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters and are required, among other matters, to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. Our direct-to-consumer payments businesses are subject to state and federal regulations in the U.S., including state money transmission regulations, anti-money laundering regulations, economic and trade sanctions administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC) and certain privacy regulations, such as the U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. Our Money Network Financial, LLC subsidiary provides prepaid access for various open loop prepaid programs for which it is the program manager and therefore must meet the requirements of the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network. We also have businesses that are subject to credit reporting and debt collection laws and regulations in the U.S. In addition, certain of our subsidiaries are subject to, among others, privacy, anti-money laundering, debt collection, and payment institution or electronic money licensing regulations outside the U.S. We operate our business around the world, including in certain foreign countries with developing economies where companies often engage in business practices that are prohibited by laws applicable to us, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. These laws prohibit, among other things, improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have implemented policies and training programs to discourage such practices; however, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, consultants and agents will comply with our policies and all applicable laws. We are also subject to certain economic and trade sanctions programs, including those that are administered by OFAC, which prohibit or restrict transactions to or from, or dealings with, specified countries, their governments, individuals and entities that are specially-designated nationals of those countries, narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations. Similar anti-money laundering, counter terrorist financing and proceeds of crime laws apply to movements of currency and payments through electronic transactions and to dealings with persons specified in lists equivalent to OFAC lists in several other countries and require specific data retention obligations to be observed by intermediaries in the payment process. Our businesses in those jurisdictions are subject to those data retention obligations. The volume and complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, or changes in the regulatory environment, including changing interpretations and the implementation of new, varying or more restrictive laws and regulations by federal, state, local or foreign governments, may 17 Table of Contents result in significant financial penalties, reputational harm, suspension or termination of our ability to provide certain services, or change or restrict the manner in which we currently conduct our business, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks and Nacha, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations, which could adversely affect our business. In order to provide our transaction processing services, several of our subsidiaries are registered with Visa and Mastercard and other networks as members or service providers for member institutions. A number of our subsidiaries outside the U.S. are direct members or associate members of Visa and Mastercard for purposes of conducting merchant acquiring, and various subsidiaries are also processor level members of numerous debit and electronic benefits transaction networks. As such, we are subject to card association and network rules that could subject us or our clients to a variety of fines or penalties that may be levied by the card associations or networks for certain acts or omissions by us, acquiring clients, processing clients or merchants. In addition, we are subject to Nacha rules relating to payment transactions processed by us using the ACH network and to various federal and state laws regarding such operations, including laws pertaining to electronic benefits transactions, as well as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard enforced by the major card brands. The rules of Nacha and the card networks are set by their respective boards, some of which are our competitors, and the card network rules may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. If we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined and our member registrations or certifications could be suspended or terminated. The suspension or termination of our member registrations or certifications, or any changes to the association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, or any other action by the card networks to restrict our ability to process transactions over such networks, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. A heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), a number of substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the U.S. have been adopted, including those that establish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to, and conducts direct examinations of, supervised banks and nonbanks as well as supervised service providers like us. CFPB rules, examinations and enforcement actions may require us to adjust our activities and may increase our compliance costs. Changes to the Dodd-Frank Act or regulations could adversely impact our debit network business. In addition, certain of our alliance partners are subject to regulation by federal and state authorities and, as a result, could pass through some of those compliance obligations to us. To the extent this oversight or regulation negatively impacts the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. Additional regulation, examination and oversight of us could require us to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services; require us to invest additional time and resources to comply with such oversight and regulations; or limit our ability to update our existing products and services, or require us to develop new ones. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory initiatives on cybersecurity and data privacy could adversely impact our business and financial results. Cybersecurity and data privacy risks have received heightened legislative and regulatory attention. In Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) extends the scope of the E.U. data protection law to all companies processing data of E.U. residents, regardless of the companys location, subject to certain limitations. The law requires companies to meet stringent requirements regarding the handling of personal data. E.U. data protection law continuously develops and requires significant changes to our policies and procedures. For example, in 2020, the Court of Justice of the European Union issued a decision that invalidated the European Commissions adequacy decision for the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework and placed additional safeguards necessary for transfers of personal data to the U.S., requiring companies and regulators to conduct case-by-case analyses to determine whether foreign protections concerning government access to transferred data meet E.U. standards. Together with our vendors and clients, we have been directly impacted by this decision, and our ability to transfer data outside the E.U. may be further impacted by determinations made by regulators in the E.U. We are also subject to U.K. GDPR 18 Table of Contents following the U.K.s exit from the E.U. Single Market and Customs Union. Our efforts to comply with E.U., U.K. and other privacy and data protection laws around the world that apply to our businesses could involve substantial expenses, divert resources from other initiatives and projects and limit the services we are able to offer. There is also increased focus on data localization requirements around the world in countries such as the United Arab Emirates, China and India which could impact our business model with respect to our storage and transfer of personal data. Further, failure to comply with applicable laws in this area could also result in significant fines, penalties and reputational damage. In addition, U.S. banking agencies have adopted or proposed enhanced cyber risk management standards that would apply to us and our financial institution clients and that would address cyber risk governance and management, management of internal and external dependencies, and incident response, cyber resilience and situational awareness. Several states also have adopted or proposed new privacy and cybersecurity laws targeting these issues. Legislation and regulations on cybersecurity, data privacy and data localization may compel us to enhance or modify our systems, invest in new systems or alter our business practices or our policies on data governance and privacy. If any of these outcomes were to occur, our operational costs could increase significantly. Failure to comply with state and federal antitrust requirements could adversely affect our business. Through our merchant alliances, we hold an ownership interest in several competing merchant acquiring businesses while serving as an electronic processor for those businesses. In order to satisfy state and federal antitrust requirements, we actively maintain an antitrust compliance program. Notwithstanding our compliance program, it is possible that perceived or actual violations of state or federal antitrust requirements could give rise to regulatory enforcement investigations or actions. Regulatory scrutiny of, or regulatory enforcement action in connection with, compliance with state and federal antitrust requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and business. We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We expose ourselves to additional liability when we agree to defend or indemnify our clients against third-party infringement claims. If the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. Any adverse result related to violation of third-party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time-consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. We actively seek to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. Nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. Agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. It is also possible that others will independently develop the same or similar technology. Further, we use open source software in connection with our solutions. Companies that incorporate open source software into their solutions have, from time to time, faced claims challenging the ownership of solutions developed using open source software. As a result, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. The laws of certain non-U.S. countries where we do business or contemplate doing business in the future may not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our operations are subject to tax by federal, state, local, and international taxing jurisdictions. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations in our significant tax jurisdictions could materially increase the amount of taxes we owe, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. Additionally, future tax laws, regulations or guidance from the Internal Revenue Service, the Securities and Exchange Commission or the Financial Accounting Standards 19 Table of Contents Board could cause us to adjust current estimates in future periods, which could impact our earnings and have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flow. The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (the OECD) and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we do business remain focused on the taxation of multinational corporations. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, including the U.S., is contemplating changes to numerous longstanding tax principles, including ensuring all companies pay a global minimum tax and expanding taxing rights of market countries. Because the timing of implementation and the specific measures adopted will vary among participating countries, significant uncertainty remains regarding the impact of these initiatives and their implementation could adversely affect our business or financial results. Furthermore, our implementation of new practices and processes designed to comply with changing tax laws and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows from operations. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively impacting our results of operations as well as our cash flows from operations. We have established contingency reserves for known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. These reserves reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the reserves are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there is no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial cost not in excess of any related reserve. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively impact our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. Organizational and Financial Risks The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients demands. Our merchants may be unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. We are subject to the risk of our merchants being unable to satisfy obligations for which we may also be liable. For example, we and our merchant acquiring alliances may be subject to contingent liability for transactions originally acquired by us that are disputed by the cardholder and charged back to the merchants. If we or the alliance is unable to collect this amount from the merchant because of the merchants insolvency or other reasons, we or the alliance will bear the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the cardholder. Although we have an active program to manage our credit risk and often mitigate our risk by obtaining collateral, a default on such obligations by one or more of our merchants could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Fraud by merchants or others could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be subject to potential liability for fraudulent transactions, including electronic payment and card transactions or credits initiated by merchants or others. Examples of merchant fraud include when a merchant or other party knowingly uses a stolen or counterfeit credit, debit or prepaid card, card number or other credentials to record a false sales transaction, processes an invalid card or intentionally fails to deliver the merchandise or services sold in an otherwise valid transaction. Criminals are using increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities such as counterfeiting and fraud. We also rely on ISOs to sell our merchant processing services, which they may do by contracting with their own sub-ISOs. We rely on these ISOs and sub-ISOs to exercise appropriate controls to avoid fraudulent transactions. It is possible that incidents of fraud could increase in the future. Failure to effectively manage risk and prevent fraud, or otherwise effectively administer our chargeback 20 Table of Contents responsibilities, would increase our chargeback liability or expose us to fines or other liabilities. Increases in chargebacks, fines or other liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions subject us to risks, including assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. A major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. We anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth; or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult or expensive to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. In addition, acquisitions outside of the U.S. often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; complying with non-U.S. regulatory requirements; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; enforcement of intellectual property rights in some non-U.S. countries; difficulty entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and general economic and political conditions. These risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we may face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. We may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. We have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. In connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. Our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent 66% of our total assets at December 31, 2021. These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. In addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. Existing or future leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $21.2 billion of debt. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to 21 Table of Contents support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, if certain of our outstanding senior notes or commercial paper notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, including due to a lack of further recovery or deterioration in economic and market conditions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. An increase in interest rates may negatively impact our operating results and financial condition. Certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our revolving credit facility, term loan, foreign lines of credit, commercial paper and receivable securitization facility, are at variable rates of interest. An increase in interest rates would have a negative impact on our results of operations by causing an increase in interest expense. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately $2.9 billion in variable rate debt, which includes $200 million on our term loan, $337 million drawn on our revolving credit facility and foreign lines of credit, an aggregate amount of $1.8 billion outstanding under our U.S. dollar and Euro commercial paper programs, and $500 million drawn on our accounts receivable securitization facility. Based on outstanding debt balances and interest rates at December 31, 2021, a 1% increase in variable interest rates would result in an increase to annual interest expense of $29 million. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates. We are subject to risks related to changes in currency rates as a result of our investments in foreign operations and from revenues generated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Revenues and profit generated by such international operations will increase or decrease compared to prior periods as a result of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. From time to time, we utilize foreign currency forward contracts and other hedging instruments to mitigate the market value risks associated with foreign currency-denominated transactions and investments. These hedging strategies may not, however, eliminate all of the risks related to foreign currency translation, and we may forgo the benefits we would otherwise experience if currency exchange rates were to change in our favor. We have also issued foreign currency-denominated senior notes and commercial paper notes for which payments of interest and principal are to be made in foreign currency, and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could cause the expense associated with such payments to increase. In addition, we may become subject to exchange control regulations that restrict or prohibit the conversion of our foreign revenue currencies into U.S. dollars. Any of these factors could decrease the value of revenues and earnings we derive from our international operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. New Omaha Holdings L.P. may sell a substantial amount of our common stock as certain restrictions on sales expire, and these sales could cause the price of our common stock to fall. New Omaha Holdings L.P. (New Omaha) owns approximately 7.5% of our outstanding shares. New Omaha may sell its shares subject to certain limitations contained in the shareholder agreement between us and New Omaha. Under a registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition, we have granted New Omaha registration rights, which permit, among others, underwritten offerings. The registration rights agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock held by New Omaha and its affiliate transferees falls below 2% and such shares may be freely sold without restrictions. New Omaha may have influence over us and its interests may conflict with other shareholders. New Omaha owns approximately 7.5% of our issued and outstanding shares and is our largest shareholder. Under the shareholder agreement between us and New Omaha, New Omaha may designate a director to serve on our board of directors in accordance with the terms thereof until the aggregate ownership percentage of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock held by New Omaha and its affiliate transferees first falls below 5%. The shareholder agreement will terminate when the aggregate ownership percentage of our outstanding shares held by New Omaha and certain of its affiliates falls below 3%. Although there are various restrictions on New Omahas ability to take certain actions with respect to us and our shareholders (including certain standstill provisions for so long as New Omahas aggregate ownership percentage of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock remains at or above 5%), New Omaha may seek to influence, and may be able to influence, us through its appointment of a director to our board of directors and its share ownership. 22 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties At December 31, 2021, we owned 20 properties and leased 158 properties globally. Our real estate strategy includes developing state-of-the art centralized campus environments in strategic locations across the U.S., including in Florida, Georgia, Nebraska, New Jersey and Wisconsin. These locations are used for operational, sales, management and administrative purposes. As a normal part of our business operations, including in connection with the integration of companies that we acquire, we regularly review our real estate portfolio. We may choose to acquire or dispose of properties in order to maintain a real estate footprint designed to maximize collaboration, innovation and communication in ways that enable us to best serve our clients and to create more opportunities for professional growth and development for our associates. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, we or our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. 23 Table of Contents INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The names of our executive officers as of February 24, 2022, together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below: Name Age Title Frank J. Bisignano 62 President and Chief Executive Officer Guy Chiarello 62 Chief Operating Officer Christopher M. Foskett 64 Chief Revenue Officer Robert W. Hau 56 Chief Financial Officer Suzan Kereere 56 Executive Vice President, Head of Global Business Solutions Adam L. Rosman 56 Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Legal Officer Byron C. Vielehr 58 Chief Digital and Data Officer Mr. Bisignano has served as Chief Executive Officer since 2020 and a director and President since 2019. He served as Chief Operating Officer from 2019 to 2020. Mr. Bisignano joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as chief executive officer since 2013 and chairman since 2014. From 2005 to 2013, he held various executive positions with JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm, including co-chief operating officer, chief executive officer of mortgage banking and chief administrative officer. From 2002 to 2005, Mr. Bisignano served as chief executive officer for Citigroups Global Transactions Services business and a member of Citigroups Management Committee. Mr. Chiarello has served as Chief Operating Officer since June 2021 and previously served as Chief Administrative Officer since 2019. Mr. Chiarello joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as president since 2013. From 2008 to 2013, he served as chief information officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm. From 1985 to 2008, Mr. Chiarello served in various technology and leadership roles including chief information officer at Morgan Stanley, a global financial services firm. Mr. Foskett has served as Chief Revenue Officer since July 2021 and previously served as Executive Vice President, Global Sales since 2019. Mr. Foskett joined Fiserv as part of the acquisition of First Data Corporation, where he served as executive vice president, head of corporate and business development since 2015 and co-head of global financial services since 2018. He joined First Data Corporation in 2014 as head of global, strategic and national accounts. From 2011 to 2014, Mr. Foskett served as managing director, head of North American treasury services and global head of sales for treasury services at JPMorgan Chase & Co., a global financial services firm. From 2009 to 2011, he was managing director, global head of financial institutions at National Australia Bank, an Australian financial institution. From 1991 to 2008, Mr. Foskett was managing director in Citigroups Corporate & Investment Bank leading several global businesses. Prior to that, he was employed by Goldman Sachs & Co. and Merrill Lynch & Co. focusing on mergers and acquisitions. Mr. Hau has served as Chief Financial Officer since 2016. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. Hau served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at TE Connectivity Ltd., a global technology and manufacturing company, from 2012 to 2016. From 2009 to 2012, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at Lennox International Inc., a provider of products and services in the heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration markets; and from 2006 to 2009, he served as vice president and chief financial officer for the aerospace business group of Honeywell International, Inc., a technology and manufacturing company. Ms. Kereere has served as Executive Vice President, Head of Global Business Solutions since December 2021 and previously served as Chief Growth Officer since June 2021. Prior to joining Fiserv, Ms. Kereere held several senior management roles at Visa Inc., a global payments technology company, including global head of merchant sales and acquiring from 2018 to 2021, head of Europe merchant sales and acquiring from 2017 to 2018 and head of the global merchant client group from 2016 to 2017. From 1996 to 2016, Ms. Kereere held various leadership positions at American Express Company, a global integrated payments company, including head of U.S. national merchant business and head of global network business. Mr. Rosman has served as Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Legal Officer since July 2021. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Rosman was general counsel of OneMain Financial, a consumer lender, from 2020 to July 2021. Previously, he served as general counsel of First Data Corporation from 2014 to 2019. Before joining First Data, Mr. Rosman was group general counsel of Willis Group Holdings plc, a multinational risk advisor, insurance brokerage and reinsurance brokerage company, from 2012 to 2014 and deputy general counsel from 2009 to 2012. Mr. Rosman also previously served as an assistant United States attorney and as deputy assistant to the president and deputy staff secretary for President William J. Clinton. 24 Table of Contents Mr. Vielehr has served as Chief Digital and Data Officer since January 2021. He previously served as Executive Vice President, Senior Group President from 2019 to January 2021, Chief Administrative Officer from 2018 to 2019, and as Group President, Depository Institution Services Group from 2013 to 2018. Prior to joining Fiserv, from 2005 to 2013, Mr. Vielehr served in a succession of senior executive positions with The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, a provider of commercial information and business insight solutions, most recently as president of international and global operations. Mr. Vielehr has more than 25 years of experience in the financial services and technology industries, including a variety of executive leadership roles at Merrill Lynch & Co., Strong Capital Management and Northstar Systems International, Inc. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Price Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol FISV. At December 31, 2021, our common stock was held by 1,627 shareholders of record and by a significantly greater number of shareholders who hold shares in nominee or street name accounts with brokers. We have never paid dividends on our common stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. For additional information regarding our expected use of capital, refer to the discussion in this report under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2021: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1-31, 2021 7,700 $ 94.76 7,700 52,249,600 November 1-30, 2021 5,703,300 99.49 5,703,300 46,546,300 December 1-31, 2021 4,202,400 102.80 4,202,400 42,343,900 Total 9,913,400 9,913,400 (1) On November 19, 2020, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 60.0 million shares of our common stock. This authorization does not expire. Stock Performance Graph The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31, 2021 with the S&P 500 Index and the NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index (the Index). Prior to September 21, 2020, the Index was known as the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index. The Index, as renamed, is identical to the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index prior to its name change on September 21, 2020. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2016 in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents December 31, 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Fiserv, Inc. $ 100 $ 123 $ 138 $ 218 $ 214 $ 195 S&P 500 Index 100 122 116 153 181 233 NASDAQ US Benchmark Transaction Processing Services Index 100 135 144 201 270 257 Item 6. [Reserved] 27 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Our discussion is organized as follows: Overview . This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. Critical accounting policies and estimates . This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Results of operations . This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the year ended December 31, 2021 to the results for the year ended December 31, 2020. Discussion of results for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the results for the year ended December 31, 2019 not included herein can be found in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2021. Liquidity and capital resources . This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at December 31, 2021. Overview Company Background We are a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We serve clients around the globe, including merchants, banks, credit unions, other financial institutions, and corporate clients. We provide account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale (POS) and business management platform. Our operations are comprised of the Merchant Acceptance (Acceptance) segment, the Financial Technology (Fintech) segment and the Payments and Network (Payments) segment. The consolidated financial statements include the financial results of First Data from the date of acquisition. The Acceptance segment provides a wide range of commerce-enabling solutions to merchants of all sizes and types around the world. These solutions include POS merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection products and services; Carat SM , our omnichannel commerce solution; Clover, our cloud-based POS and business management platform, which includes a marketplace for proprietary and third-party business applications; and Clover Connect, our independent software vendor (ISV) platform. The businesses in the Acceptance segment are subject to a modest level of seasonality, with the first quarter generally experiencing the lowest level of revenue and the fourth quarter experiencing the highest level of revenue. The Fintech segment provides financial institutions around the world with technology solutions that enable them to process customer deposit and loan accounts and manage general ledger and central information files, as well as other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions such as digital banking, financial and risk management, professional services and consulting, and item processing and source capture services. Our businesses in this segment also provide products and services to corporate clients to facilitate the management of financial processes and transactions. The Payments segment primarily provides financial institutions and corporate clients with the products and services required to process digital payment transactions, including card transactions such as debit, credit and prepaid card processing and services, a range of network services, security and fraud protection products, card production and print services. In addition, our businesses in this segment offer non-card digital payment software and services, including bill payment, account-to-account transfers, person-to-person payments, electronic billing, and security and fraud protection products. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts with high renewal rates. Most of the services we provide within our segments are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. 28 Table of Contents Corporate and Other supports the reportable segments described above, and consists of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when we evaluate segment performance, such as gains or losses on sales of businesses or investments, costs associated with acquisition and divestiture activity, and our Output Solutions postage reimbursements. Corporate and Other also includes the historical results of our Investment Services business prior to the disposition of our controlling financial interest in February 2020, as well as certain transition services revenue associated with various dispositions. Acquisitions and Dispositions We frequently review our portfolio to ensure we have the necessary business assets to execute our strategy. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. Acquisitions On November 22, 2021, we acquired BentoBox CMS, Inc. (BentoBox), a digital marketing and commerce platform that helps restaurants connect with their guests. BentoBox is included within the Acceptance segment and expands our Clover dining solutions and commerce and business management capabilities. On November 15, 2021, we acquired a remaining ownership interest in NetPay Solutions Group (NetPay), a multi-channel payment service provider offering a range of capabilities around onboarding, customer lifecycle, risk management, and settlement to businesses of all sizes. We previously held a noncontrolling equity interest in NetPay, which was accounted for under the equity method. NetPay is included within the Acceptance segment and further expands our ability to develop and deliver a wide range of customer-focused solutions and seamless payments experiences for our clients. On October 1, 2021, we acquired Integrity Payments, LLC (AIP), a business that promotes payment processing services for merchants and is included within the Acceptance segment. On June 14, 2021, we acquired Spend Labs Inc. (SpendLabs), a mobile-native, cloud-based software provider of commercial card payment solutions. SpendLabs is included within the Payments segment and further expands our digital capabilities across mobile and desktop devices for small and mid-sized businesses. On May 4, 2021, we acquired Pineapple Payments Holdings, LLC (Pineapple Payments), an independent sales organization (ISO) that provides payment processing, proprietary technology, and payment acceptance solutions for merchants. Pineapple Payments is included within the Acceptance segment and expands the reach of our payment solutions through its technology- and relationship-led distribution channels. On March 1, 2021, we acquired Radius8, Inc. (Radius8), a provider of a platform that uses consumer location and other information to drive incremental merchant transactions. Radius8 is included within the Acceptance segment and enhances our ability to help merchants increase sales, expand mobile application registration and improve one-to-one target marketing. On January 22, 2021, we acquired a remaining ownership interest in Ondot Systems, Inc. (Ondot), a digital experience platform provider for financial institutions. We previously held a noncontrolling equity interest in Ondot, which was accounted for at cost. Ondot is included within the Payments segment and further expands our digital capabilities, enhancing our suite of integrated payments, banking and merchant solutions. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $882 million, net of $43 million of acquired cash and the fair value of our previously held equity interests of $36 million, and including earn-out provisions estimated at an aggregate fair value of $34 million. The results of operations for these acquired businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition. On March 2, 2020, we acquired MerchantPro Express LLC (MerchantPro), an ISO that provides processing services, POS equipment and merchant cash advances to businesses across the United States. MerchantPro is included within the Acceptance segment and further expands our merchant services business. On March 18, 2020, we acquired Bypass Mobile, LLC (Bypass), an independent software vendor and innovator in enterprise POS systems for sports and entertainment venues, food service management providers and national restaurant chains. Bypass is included within the Acceptance segment and further enhances our ability to help businesses deliver seamless physical and digital customer experiences. On May 11, 2020, we acquired Inlet, LLC (Inlet), a provider of secure digital delivery solutions for enterprise and middle-market billers invoices and statements. Inlet is included within the Payments segment and further enhances our digital bill payment strategy. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $167 million, net of $2 million of acquired cash, and including earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $45 million. The results of operations for these acquired businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition. On July 29, 2019, we acquired First Data for a total purchase price of $46.5 billion by acquiring 100% of the First Data stock that was issued and outstanding as of the date of acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, First Data stockholders received 286 million shares of common stock of Fiserv, Inc., at an exchange ratio of 0.303 shares of Fiserv, Inc. for each share of First Data common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. We also converted 15 million outstanding First Data equity awards into corresponding equity awards relating to common stock of Fiserv, Inc. in accordance with the exchange ratio. In addition, concurrent with the closing of the acquisition, we made a cash payment of $16.4 billion to repay existing First Data debt. We 29 Table of Contents funded the transaction-related expenses and the repayment of First Data debt through a combination of available cash on-hand, proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, and term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings. The acquisition of First Data, included within the Acceptance and Payments segments, increases our footprint as a global payments and financial technology provider by expanding the portfolio of services provided to financial institutions, corporate and merchant clients and consumers. In February 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining ownership interest in Finxact, Inc. (Finxact), a developer of cloud-native banking solutions powering digital transformation throughout financial services, for approximately $650 million. We expect the acquisition to close in 2022, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions. Upon closing of the acquisition, Finxact will be included within the Fintech segment. We expect to recognize a gain on the remeasurement of our previously held equity interest to its fair value at the acquisition date. Dispositions Effective July 1, 2020, we and Bank of America (BANA) dissolved the Banc of America Merchant Services joint venture (BAMS or the joint venture), of which we maintained a 51% controlling ownership interest. Upon dissolution of the joint ventures operations, the joint venture transferred a proportionate share of value, primarily the client contracts, to each party via an agreed upon contractual separation. The transfer of value to BANA was accounted for at fair value, resulting in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $36 million, with a related tax expense of $13 million. The remaining activities of the joint venture consist primarily of an orderly wind down of remaining BAMS assets and liabilities. The revenues and expenses of the BAMS joint venture were consolidated into our financial results though the date of dissolution. The business transferred to us continues to be operated and managed within our Acceptance segment. We will continue to provide merchant processing and related services to former BAMS clients allocated to BANA, at BAMS pricing, through June 2023. We will also provide processing and other support services to new BANA merchant clients pursuant to a five-year non-exclusive agreement which, after June 2023, will also apply to the former BAMS clients allocated to BANA. In addition, both companies are entitled to certain transition services, at fair value, from each other through June 2023. On February 18, 2020, we sold a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business, subsequently renamed as Tegra118, LLC (Tegra118), which is reported within Corporate and Other. We received pre-tax proceeds of $578 million, net of related expenses, resulting in a pre-tax gain on the sale of $428 million, with a related tax expense of $112 million. The revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Investment Services business were consolidated into our financial results through the date of the sale transaction, and is reported within Corporate and Other. On February 2, 2021, Tegra118 completed a merger with a third party, resulting in a dilution of our ownership interest in the combined new entity, Wealthtech Holdings, LLC, which was subsequently renamed as InvestCloud Holdings, LLC (InvestCloud). In connection with the transaction, we made an additional capital contribution of $200 million into the combined entity and recognized a pre-tax gain of $28 million, with a related tax expense of $6 million. On June 30, 2021, we sold our entire ownership interest in InvestCloud for $466 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $33 million, with a related tax expense of $8 million. We will continue to provide various technical and data center related services for defined periods under the terms of a pre-existing transition services agreement. Enterprise Priorities We aspire to move money and information in a way that moves the world by delivering superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We achieve this through active portfolio management of our business, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. Our long-term priorities are to (i) continue to build high-quality revenue while meeting our earnings goals; (ii) enhance client relationships with an emphasis on digital and payment solutions; (iii) deliver innovation and integration which enables differentiated value for our clients; and (iv) deliver integration value from acquisitions. Industry Trends The global payments landscape continues to evolve, with rapidly advancing technologies and a steady expansion of digital payments, e-commerce and innovation in real-time payments infrastructure. Because of this growth, competition also continues to evolve. Business and consumer expectations continue to rise, with a focus on convenience and security. To meet these expectations, payments companies are focused on modernizing their technology, expanding the use of data and enhancing the customer experience. 30 Table of Contents Merchants The rapid growth in and globalization of mobile and e-commerce, driven by consumers desire for convenient and efficient shopping experiences, has created an opportunity for merchants to reach consumers in high-growth online and mobile settings, which often requires a merchant acquiring provider to enable and optimize the acceptance of payments. Merchants are demanding simple, integrated and modern POS systems to help manage their everyday business operations. When combined with the ever-increasing ways a consumer can pay for goods and services, merchants have sought modern POS systems to streamline this complexity. Furthermore, merchants can now search, discover, compare, purchase and even install a new POS system through direct, digital-only experiences. This direct, digital-only channel is quickly becoming a source of new merchant acquisition opportunities, especially with respect to smaller merchants. In addition, there are numerous software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions in the industry, many of which have chosen to integrate merchant acquiring within their software as a way to further monetize their client relationships. SaaS solutions that integrate payments are often referred to as ISVs, and we believe there are thousands of these potential distribution partnership opportunities available to us. We believe that our merchant acquiring products and solutions create compelling value propositions for merchant clients of all sizes, from small and mid-sized businesses (or SMBs) to medium-sized regional businesses to global enterprise merchants, and across all verticals. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with valued partnerships with merchant acquiring businesses of small, medium and large financial institutions, and non-financial institutions, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Financial Institutions Financial service providers regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, risk management, lending and investment products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving global regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include electronic payments and delivery methods such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as digital channels, which enable financial institutions to offer their customers an industry-leading digital banking experience. The focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes in an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including a unified, seamless customer experience across mobile and online channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. In addition to the trends described above, during the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we typically receive a contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. These fees can vary from period to period with the variance depending on the quantum of financial institution merger activity in a given period and whether or not our clients are involved in the activity. Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has also reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. Furthermore, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. 31 Table of Contents Recent Market Conditions Since early 2020, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic, and various measures imposed by the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions to prevent its spread, have, among other matters, negatively impacted consumer and business spending and, as a result, our operating performance, primarily within our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses, which earn transaction-based fees. We experienced a significant decrease in payments volume and transactions beginning in late March 2020 that negatively impacted our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses as well as modest declines in other businesses. Merchant acquiring transaction and payment volumes began to partially recover throughout the remainder of 2020 and have continued to grow throughout 2021. Accordingly, our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses were less impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic during 2021 than they were throughout most of fiscal 2020. While this current business trend is positive, the extent of the adverse impact of the pandemic on our business, results of operations, liquidity and financial condition will depend on, among other matters, the duration and intensity of the pandemic; the level of success of global vaccination efforts; governmental and private sector responses to the pandemic and the impact of such responses on us; and the impact of the pandemic on our employees, clients, vendors, supply chain, operations and sales, all of which are uncertain, difficult to predict and may remain prevalent for a significant period of time even after the pandemic subsides, including due to a continued or prolonged recession in the U.S. or other major economies. In 2021, we began observing increasing shortages and delays in the global supply chain for components and inputs necessary to our businesses, such as semiconductors, paper and plastic, and may experience difficulty procuring those components and inputs in the future on a timely basis or at historical prices. The COVID-19 pandemic has also caused us to modify our business practices, including restricting travel, limiting non-essential visitors to our facilities, disinfecting facilities, providing onsite testing and personal protective equipment to employees, establishing a variety of safety protocols at facilities, and requiring U.S. employees to be fully vaccinated unless they have an approved medical, religious, or state exemption. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements, including for recently adopted accounting pronouncements, and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. Acquisitions From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions that may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgments. We use information available to us to make fair value determinations and engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in the fair value determination of significant acquired long-lived assets. The determination of fair value requires estimates about discount rates, growth and retention rates, royalty rates, expected future cash flows and other future events that are judgmental in nature. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. Additional information regarding our acquisitions is included in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and Intangible Assets We review the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level, which is one level below our 32 Table of Contents reportable segments. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, we consider the prior tests amount of excess fair value over the carrying value of each reporting unit, the period of time since a reporting units last quantitative test, the extent a reorganization or disposition changes the composition of one or more of our reporting units, and other factors to determine whether or not to first perform a qualitative test. When performing a qualitative test, we assess numerous factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. Examples of qualitative factors that we assess include our share price, our financial performance, market and competitive factors in our industry and other events specific to our reporting units. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform a quantitative impairment test. The quantitative impairment test compares the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value, and recognizes an impairment loss for the amount by which a reporting units carrying amount exceeds its fair value, without exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit using both a discounted cash flow analysis and a market approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions. Our most recent annual impairment assessment of our reporting units in the fourth quarter of 2021 determined that our goodwill of $36.4 billion was not impaired as the estimated fair values of the respective reporting units exceeded the carrying values. However, for three of our reporting units that were acquired as part of the First Data acquisition, with aggregate goodwill of $11.1 billion, the excess of the respective reporting units fair value over carrying value ranged from 8 to 21 percent. If future operating performance is below our expectations or there are changes to forecasted revenue growth rates, risk-adjusted discount rates, effective income tax rates, merchant alliance agreements or some combination thereof, a decline in the fair value of the reporting units could result in, and we may be required to record, a goodwill impairment charge. It is also reasonably possible that future developments related to the interest rate environment or the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on certain of our recently acquired (recorded at fair value) First Data businesses, such as an increased duration and intensity of the pandemic and/or government-imposed restrictions, could have a future material impact on one or more of the estimates and assumptions used to evaluate goodwill impairment. We have no accumulated goodwill impairment through December 31, 2021. Additional information regarding our goodwill is included in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. We review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We review capitalized software development costs for impairment at each reporting date. Recoverability of intangible assets is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to either the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or the net realizable value of the asset, depending on the type of asset. Determining future cash flows and net realizable values involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions regarding future economic and market conditions. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. Given the significance of our goodwill and intangible asset balances, an adverse change in fair value could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer, and excludes any amounts collected on behalf of third parties. As a practical expedient, we do not adjust the transaction price for the effects of a significant financing component if, at contract inception, the period between customer payment and the transfer of goods or services is expected to be one year or less. Contracts with customers are evaluated on a contract-by-contract basis as contracts may include multiple types of goods and services as described below. Processing and Services Processing and services revenue is generated from account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, merchant transaction processing and acquiring, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer and debit/credit processing services; consulting and professional services; and software maintenance for ongoing client support. We recognize processing and services revenues in the period in which the specific service is performed unless they are not deemed distinct from other goods or services, in which case revenue would then be recognized as control is transferred of the combined goods and services. Our arrangements for processing and services typically consist of an obligation to provide specific services to our customers on a when- and if-needed basis (a stand-ready obligation) and revenue is recognized from the satisfaction of the performance obligations in the amount billable to the customer. These services are typically provided under a fixed or declining (tier-based) price per unit based on volume of service; however, pricing for services may also be based on minimum monthly usage fees. Fees for our processing and services arrangements are typically billed and paid on a monthly basis. 33 Table of Contents Product Product revenue is generated from print and card production sales, as well as software license and hardware (POS devices) sales. For software license agreements that are distinct, we recognize software license revenue upon delivery, assuming a contract is deemed to exist. Revenue for arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software such that the software is not distinct is typically recognized over time based upon efforts expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. For arrangements involving hosted licensed software for the customer, a software element is considered present to the extent the customer has the contractual right to take possession of the software at any time during the hosting period without significant penalty and it is feasible for the customer to either operate the software on their own hardware or contract with another vendor to host the software. We sell or lease hardware (POS devices) and other peripherals as part of our contracts with customers. Hardware typically consists of terminals or Clover devices. We do not manufacture hardware, rather we purchase hardware from third-party vendors and hold such hardware in inventory until purchased by a customer. We account for sales of hardware as a separate performance obligation and recognize the revenue at its standalone selling price when the customer obtains control of the hardware. Significant Judgments We use the following methods, inputs and assumptions in determining amounts of revenue to recognize. For multi-element arrangements, we account for individual goods or services as a separate performance obligation if they are distinct, the good or service is separately identifiable from other items in the arrangement, and if a customer can benefit from the good or service on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. If these criteria are not met, the promised goods or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Determining whether goods or services are distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately may require significant judgment. Technology or service components from third parties are frequently embedded in or combined with our applications or service offerings. Whether we recognize revenue based on the gross amount billed to a customer or the net amount retained involves judgment that depends on the relevant facts and circumstances including the level of contractual responsibilities and obligations for delivering solutions to end customers to determine whether we obtain control of goods and services prior to their transfer to a customer. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we will be entitled in exchange for transferring products or services to the customer. We include any fixed charges within our contracts as part of the total transaction price. To the extent that variable consideration is not constrained, we include an estimate of the variable amount, as appropriate, within the total transaction price and update our assumptions over the duration of the contract. We may constrain the estimated transaction price in the event of a high degree of uncertainty as to the final consideration amount owed because of an extended length of time over which the fees may be adjusted. The transaction price (including any discounts or rebates) is allocated between distinct goods and services in a multi-element arrangement based on their relative standalone selling prices. For items that are not sold separately, we estimate the standalone selling prices using available information such as market conditions and internally approved pricing guidelines. Significant judgment may be required to determine standalone selling prices for each performance obligation and whether it depicts the amount we expect to receive in exchange for the related good or service. Contract modifications occur when we and our customers agree to modify existing customer contracts to change the scope or price (or both) of the contract or when a customer terminates some, or all, of the existing services provided by us. When a contract modification occurs, it requires us to exercise judgment to determine if the modification should be accounted for as (i) a separate contract, (ii) the termination of the original contract and creation of a new contract, or (iii) a cumulative catch up adjustment to the original contract. Further, contract modifications require the identification and evaluation of the performance obligations of the modified contract, including the allocation of revenue to the remaining performance obligations and the period of recognition for each identified performance obligation. Additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes The determination of our provision for income taxes requires managements judgment in the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws, sometimes made more complex by our global footprint. Judgment is also required in assessing the timing and amounts of deductible and taxable items. We establish a liability for known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment of the item. In establishing a liability for known tax exposures, assumptions are made in determining whether, and the extent to which, a tax position will be sustained. A tax benefit with respect to a tax position is recognized only when it is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the relevant taxing authority, based on its technical merits, considering the facts and circumstances available as of the reporting date. The amount of tax benefit recognized reflects the largest benefit that we 34 Table of Contents believe is more likely than not to be realized on settlement with the relevant taxing authority. As new information becomes available, we evaluate our tax positions and adjust our liability for known tax exposures as appropriate. We maintain net operating loss carryforwards in various taxing jurisdictions, resulting in the establishment of deferred tax assets. We establish a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets when, based upon the weight of all available evidence, we believe it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we have considered the relative impact of all of the available positive and negative evidence regarding future sources of taxable income and available tax planning strategies. However, there could be a material impact to our effective tax rate if there is a significant change in our judgment. To the extent our judgment changes, the valuation allowances are then adjusted, generally through the provision for income taxes, in the period in which the change in facts and circumstances occurs. Additional information regarding our income taxes is included in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Components of Revenue and Expenses The following summary describes the components of revenue and expenses as presented in our consolidated statements of income. Processing and Services Processing and services revenue, which in 2021 represented 82% of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under multi-year contracts. Processing and services revenue is most reflective of our business performance as a significant amount of our total operating profit is generated by these services. Cost of processing and services includes costs directly associated with providing services to clients and includes the following: personnel; equipment and data communication; infrastructure costs, including costs to maintain software applications; client support; certain depreciation and amortization; and other operating expenses. Product Product revenue, which in 2021 represented 18% of our total revenue, is primarily derived from print and card production sales, as well as software license and hardware (primarily POS devices) sales. Cost of product includes costs directly associated with the products sold and includes the following: costs of materials, postage and software development; hardware costs (primarily POS devices); personnel; infrastructure costs; certain depreciation and amortization; and other costs directly associated with product revenue. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, administrative employees and management; third-party commissions; advertising and promotional costs; certain depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. Synergies from the First Data Acquisition Following the acquisition of First Data, we have continued to implement our post-merger integration plans to achieve synergies and future expected economic benefits, including enhanced revenue growth from expanded capabilities and geographic presence as well as substantial cost savings from the elimination of duplicative overhead and enhanced operational efficiency. As of December 31, 2021, we have achieved 80% of our $600 million revenue synergy target and expect to attain the remaining revenue synergies by the end of 2022. In addition, we have completed the integration activities associated with the achievement of cost synergies, having actioned $1.2 billion in cost synergies as of December 31, 2021, and we expect to incur lower acquisition and integration related costs in 2022. 35 Table of Contents Financial Results The following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to year. This section discusses fiscal year 2021 compared to 2020. Discussions of fiscal year 2020 compared to 2019 can be found in Part II, Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Form 10-K for fiscal year 2020, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 2021. This information should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. The financial results presented below have been affected by acquisitions, dispositions, and foreign currency fluctuations. (In millions) Percentage of Revenue (1) Increase (Decrease) Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2021 2020 2021 vs. 2020 Revenue: Processing and services $ 13,307 $ 12,215 82.0 % 82.2 % $ 1,092 9 % Product 2,919 2,637 18.0 % 17.8 % 282 11 % Total revenue 16,226 14,852 100.0 % 100.0 % 1,374 9 % Expenses: Cost of processing and services 6,084 5,841 45.7 % 47.8 % 243 4 % Cost of product 2,044 1,971 70.0 % 74.7 % 73 4 % Sub-total 8,128 7,812 50.1 % 52.6 % 316 4 % Selling, general and administrative 5,810 5,652 35.8 % 38.1 % 158 3 % Gain on sale of businesses (464) % (3.1) % (464) n/m Total expenses 13,938 13,000 85.9 % 87.5 % 938 7 % Operating income 2,288 1,852 14.1 % 12.5 % 436 24 % Interest expense, net (693) (709) (4.3) % (4.8) % (16) (2) % Other income 71 28 0.4 % 0.2 % 43 n/m Income before income taxes and income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates 1,666 1,171 10.3 % 7.9 % 495 42 % Income tax provision (363) (196) (2.2) % (1.3) % 167 85 % Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates 100 0.6 % % 100 n/m Net income 1,403 975 8.6 % 6.6 % 428 44 % Less: net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests 69 17 0.4 % 0.1 % 52 n/m Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. $ 1,334 $ 958 8.2 % 6.5 % $ 376 39 % (1) Percentage of revenue is calculated as the relevant revenue, expense, income amount divided by total revenue, except for cost of processing and services and cost of product amounts, which are divided by the related component of revenue. 36 Table of Contents (In millions) Year Ended December 31, Acceptance Fintech Payments Corporate and Other Total Total revenue: 2021 $ 6,479 $ 3,022 $ 5,833 $ 892 $ 16,226 2020 5,522 2,901 5,504 925 14,852 Revenue growth: 2021 $ 957 $ 121 $ 329 $ (33) $ 1,374 2021 percentage 17 % 4 % 6 % 9 % Operating income: 2021 $ 1,996 $ 1,081 $ 2,557 $ (3,346) $ 2,288 2020 1,427 992 2,361 (2,928) 1,852 Operating income growth: 2021 $ 569 $ 89 $ 196 $ (418) $ 436 2021 percentage 40 % 9 % 8 % 24 % Operating margin: 2021 30.8 % 35.8 % 43.8 % 14.1 % 2020 25.9 % 34.2 % 42.9 % 12.5 % Operating margin growth: (1) 2021 490 bps 160 bps 90 bps 160 bps (1) Represents the basis point growth or decline in operating margin. Operating margin percentages are calculated using actual, unrounded amounts. Total Revenue Total revenue increased $1,374 million, or 9%, in 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue increase was primarily due to improved payment and transaction volumes across all of our business segments, partially offset by the loss of revenue attributable to dispositions that had revenue of $155 million in 2020. In addition, the revenue in our merchant acquiring and payment-related businesses were more adversely affected by the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020 than during 2021. Revenue in our Acceptance segment increased $957 million, or 17%, in 2021 compared to 2020. The revenue increase was primarily due to growth from improved merchant acquiring payment and transaction volumes, partially offset by a reduction in revenue of 2% from the July 2020 dissolution of the BAMS joint venture. Revenue in our Fintech segment increased $121 million, or 4%, in 2021 compared to 2020, driven by recurring revenue growth from higher processing revenue across our Fintech businesses. Revenue in our Payments segment increased $329 million, or 6%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Payments segment revenue growth was driven by revenue contributions of 3% from our debit processing business primarily attributable to increased transaction volumes and favorable pricing. Increased volumes also drove favorable revenue growth across our remaining Payments segment businesses, other than in our bill payment business which partially offset revenue growth by 1% in 2021. Revenue at Corporate and Other decreased $33 million, or 4%, in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily due to the disposition of a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business. Total Expenses Total expenses increased $938 million, or 7%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Total expenses in 2020 included a 3% benefit from gains on sale of businesses. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased by 160 basis points to 85.9% in 2021 compared to 2020. Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue in 2021 decreased primarily as a result of operating efficiencies and cost savings from First Data acquisition-related cost synergies. 37 Table of Contents Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue decreased to 45.7% in 2021 compared to 47.8% in 2020. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was favorably impacted in 2021 due primarily to strong operating leverage, including cost synergies, across our businesses, partially offset by increased acquisition and integration related expenses of approximately 80 basis points in 2021 as compared to 2020. Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue decreased to 70.0% in 2021 compared to 74.7% in 2020. The cost of product as a percentage of product revenue improved in 2021 as a result of revenue mix. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue decreased to 35.8% in 2021 compared to 38.1% in 2020. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue in 2021 was primarily due to strong operating leverage and operating efficiencies across our businesses, along with approximately 90 basis points from decreased acquisition and integration related expenses and approximately 20 basis points from lower employee termination costs in 2021. The gains on sale of businesses in 2020 resulted from a gain of $428 million on the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business in February 2020 and a gain of $36 million on the dissolution of BAMS in July 2020. Operating Income and Operating Margin Total operating income increased $436 million, or 24%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Total operating margin increased 160 basis points to 14.1% in 2021 compared to 2020. Total operating income and total operating margin benefited from improved operating leverage accompanying scalable revenue growth in 2021, as well as from operating efficiencies as noted above. Total operating income and total operating margin were also impacted by a $428 million gain on the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business in February 2020 and a $36 million gain on the dissolution of BAMS in July 2020. Operating income in our Acceptance segment increased $569 million, or 40%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin increased 490 basis points to 30.8% in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin growth in 2021 was primarily due to revenue growth as noted above. Operating income in our Fintech segment increased $89 million, or 9%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin increased 160 basis points to 35.8% in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin improvement in 2021 was driven by scalable revenue growth discussed above, along with expense management initiatives across the segment, including lower personnel costs of approximately 60 basis points. Operating income in our Payments segment increased $196 million, or 8%, in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin increased 90 basis points to 43.8% in 2021 compared to 2020. Operating margin growth in 2021 was primarily attributable to operating efficiencies and cost synergies. The operating loss in Corporate and Other increased $418 million in 2021 compared to 2020. Corporate and Other was favorably impacted in the prior year by a $428 million gain on the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business in February 2020 and a $36 million gain on the dissolution of BAMS in July 2020. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net decreased $16 million, or 2%, in 2021 compared to 2020 due to lower effective interest rates on outstanding borrowings. Other Income Other income increased $43 million in 2021 compared to 2020. Other income includes net foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains or losses from a change in fair value of investments in certain equity securities, and amounts related to debt guarantee arrangements of certain joint ventures. Net foreign currency transaction gains (losses) were $12 million and ($20) million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Other income in 2021 includes $12 million related to a pre-tax gain on the remeasurement of a previously held investment in Ondot to fair value upon acquiring the remaining ownership interest in the entity and $20 million related to a gain on sale of investments in certain equity securities. Other income in 2020 includes $19 million related to a pre-tax gain on the sale of certain lease receivables. 38 Table of Contents Income Tax Provision Income tax provision as a percentage of income before income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was 21.8% and 16.7% in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in the effective income tax rate in 2021 compared to 2020 was primarily the result of $134 million of income tax expense attributed to the revaluation of certain net deferred tax liabilities in connection with corporate income tax rate changes enacted in 2021 in the United Kingdom (tax rate increased from 19% to 25% starting in 2023) and Argentina (tax rate increased from 25% to 35%). Income from Investments in Unconsolidated Affiliates Our share of net income from affiliates accounted for using the equity method of accounting is reported as income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates and the related tax expense is reported within the income tax provision in the consolidated statements of income. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates, including acquired intangible asset amortization from valuations in purchase accounting, was $100 million and $0 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates was favorably impacted by improved operating results within the unconsolidated affiliates in 2021. Additionally, income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates in 2021 included a $33 million pre-tax gain resulting from the sale of our remaining ownership interest in InvestCloud and a $28 million pre-tax gain resulting from the dilution of our ownership interest in connection with the Tegra118 merger with a third party. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and redeemable noncontrolling interests relates to the minority partners share of the net income in our consolidated subsidiaries. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, including acquired intangible asset amortization from valuations in purchase accounting, was $69 million and $17 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased in 2021 compared to 2020 due to improved operating results within the consolidated subsidiaries. Net Income Per Share - Diluted Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted was $1.99 and $1.40 in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted increased in 2021 primarily as a result of the improved operating results discussed above. Net income attributable to Fiserv, Inc. per share-diluted in 2020 included a gain from the sale of a 60% interest of our Investment Services business and a gain on the dissolution of BAMS. Liquidity and Capital Resources General Our primary liquidity needs in the ordinary course of business are to: (i) fund normal operating expenses; (ii) meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness, including finance leases; and (iii) fund capital expenditures and operating lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied in both the short term and the long term using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of $835 million, proceeds from the issuance of U.S. and Euro commercial paper notes, and available capacity under our revolving credit facility of $1.6 billion (net of outstanding balance and $1.8 billion of capacity designated for outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper notes programs) at December 31, 2021. The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Year Ended December 31, Increase (Decrease) (In millions) 2021 2020 $ % Net income $ 1,403 $ 975 $ 428 Depreciation and amortization 3,248 3,257 (9) Share-based compensation 239 369 (130) Deferred income taxes (262) 71 (333) Gain on sale of businesses (464) 464 Income from investments in unconsolidated affiliates (100) (100) Distributions from unconsolidated affiliates 34 42 (8) Non-cash impairment charges 15 124 (109) Net changes in working capital and other (543) (227) (316) Operating cash flow $ 4,034 $ 4,147 $ (113) (3) % Capital expenditures, including capitalized software and other intangibles $ 1,160 $ 900 $ 260 29 % Our net cash provided by operating activities, or operating cash flow, was $4.0 billion in 2021, a decrease of 3% compared with $4.1 billion in 2020. This decrease was primarily attributable to higher working capital use compared to the prior year, including increased accounts receivable corresponding to revenue growth, and higher income tax payments following consumption of certain federal net operating loss carryforwards, partially offset by improved operating results. Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow to primarily fund capital expenditures, share repurchases, acquisitions and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately 7% and 6% of our total revenue in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cash Requirements The following table details our future cash requirements under certain contractual obligations at December 31, 2021: (In millions) Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Long-term debt including interest (1) (2) $ 25,822 $ 983 $ 8,045 $ 4,411 $ 12,383 Minimum finance lease payments (1) 470 138 273 59 Minimum operating lease payments (1) (3) 845 125 213 156 351 Purchase obligations (1) 1,727 753 697 152 125 Income tax obligations 124 23 26 37 38 Total $ 28,988 $ 2,022 $ 9,254 $ 4,815 $ 12,897 (1) Interest, finance lease, operating lease and purchase obligations are reported on a pre-tax basis. (2) The calculations assume that only mandatory debt repayments are made, no additional refinancing or lending occurs, except for our receivable securitized loan due in July 2022, 3.50% notes due in October 2022, and U.S. and Euro commercial paper notes programs as we have the intent to refinance this debt on a long-term basis and the ability to do so under our revolving credit facility maturing in September 2023, and the variable rate on the revolving credit facility and term loans are priced at the rate in effect at December 31, 2021. Share Repurchases We purchased a total of $2.6 billion and $1.6 billion of our common stock in 2021 and 2020, respectively. At December 31, 2021, we had approximately 42.3 million shares remaining under our current repurchase authorizations. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans. 39 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Dispositions Acquisitions In November 2021 we acquired BentoBox, in October 2021 we acquired AIP, in June 2021 we acquired SpendLabs, in May 2021 we acquired Pineapple Payments, and in March 2021 we acquired Radius8. Additionally, in November 2021, we acquired a remaining ownership interest in NetPay, and in January 2021, we acquired a remaining ownership interest in Ondot, in which we previously held noncontrolling equity interests. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $882 million, net of $43 million of acquired cash and the fair value of our previously held equity interests of $36 million, and including earn-out provisions estimated at an aggregate fair value of $34 million. We funded these acquisitions by utilizing a combination of available cash, commercial paper notes and existing availability under our revolving credit facility. The results of operations for these acquired businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition. In May 2020, we acquired Inlet and, in March 2020, we acquired MerchantPro and Bypass. We acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $167 million, net of $2 million of acquired cash, and including earn-out provisions estimated at a fair value of $45 million. We funded these acquisitions by utilizing a combination of available cash and existing availability under our revolving credit facility. The results of operations for these acquired businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition. On July 29, 2019, we acquired First Data for a total purchase price of $46.5 billion by acquiring 100% of the First Data stock that was issued and outstanding as of the date of acquisition. As a result of the acquisition, First Data stockholders received 286 million shares of common stock of Fiserv, Inc., at an exchange ratio of 0.303 shares of Fiserv, Inc. for each share of First Data common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares. We also converted 15 million outstanding First Data equity awards into corresponding equity awards relating to common stock of Fiserv, Inc. in accordance with the exchange ratio. In addition, concurrent with the closing of the acquisition, we made a cash payment of $16.4 billion to repay existing First Data debt. We funded the transaction-related expenses and the repayment of First Data debt through a combination of available cash on-hand, proceeds from the issuance of senior notes, and term loan and revolving credit facility borrowings. In February 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining ownership interest in Finxact for approximately $650 million, which we expect to close later in 2022, subject to customary approvals and closing conditions. We plan to fund this acquisition by utilizing a combination of available cash and available borrowing capacity. Dispositions Effective July 1, 2020, we and BANA dissolved the BAMS joint venture, of which we maintained a 51% controlling ownership interest. Upon dissolution of the joint ventures operations, the joint venture transferred a proportionate share of value, primarily the client contracts, to each party via an agreed upon contractual separation. The remaining activities of the joint venture consist primarily of an orderly wind down of remaining BAMS assets and liabilities. The revenues and expenses of the BAMS joint venture were consolidated into our financial results through the date of dissolution. The business transferred to us is included within our Acceptance segment. We continue to provide merchant processing and related services to former BAMS clients allocated to BANA, at BAMS pricing, through June 2023. We will also provide processing and other support services to new BANA merchant clients pursuant to a five-year non-exclusive agreement which, after June 2023, will also apply to the former BAMS clients allocated to BANA. In addition, both companies are entitled to certain transition services, at fair value, from each other through June 2023. In February 2020, we sold a 60% controlling interest of our Investment Services business, subsequently renamed as Tegra118. We received pre-tax proceeds of $578 million, net of related expenses, resulting in a pre-tax gain on the sale of $428 million, with the related tax expense of $112 million . The revenues, expenses and cash flows of the Investment Services business were consolidated into our financial results through the date of the sale transaction. The net proceeds from the sale were primarily used to repurchase shares of our common stock. In February 2021, Tegra118 completed a merger with a third party, resulting in a dilution of our ownership interest in the combined new entity, Wealthtech Holdings, LLC, which was subsequently renamed as InvestCloud. In connection with the transaction, we made an additional capital contribution, funded under our revolving credit facility, of $200 million into the combined entity and recognized a pre-tax gain of $28 million, with a related tax expense of $6 million. In June 2021, we sold our entire ownership interest in InvestCloud for $466 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $33 million, with a related tax expense of $8 million. The net proceeds from the sale were primarily used to pay down outstanding borrowings on our term loan facility. We maintain a 45% ownership interest in Sagent M&C, LLC and a 31% ownership interest in defi SOLUTIONS Group, LLC (collectively, the Lending Joint Ventures). The Lending Joint Ventures maintain variable-rate term loan facilities with aggregate outstanding borrowings of $365 million in senior unsecured debt and variable-rate revolving credit facilities with an aggregate borrowing capacity of $45 million with a syndicate of banks, which mature in March 2023. Outstanding borrowings 40 Table of Contents on the revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2021 were $16 million. We have guaranteed this debt of the Lending Joint Ventures and do not anticipate that the Lending Joint Ventures will fail to fulfill their debt obligations. We maintain a liability for the estimated fair value of our non-contingent obligations to stand ready to perform over the term of the guarantee arrangements. Such guarantees will be amortized in future periods over the contractual term, based upon amounts to be received by us for the respective guarantees. In addition, we maintain a contingent liability representing the current expected credit losses to which we are exposed. This contingent liability is estimated based on certain financial metrics of the Lending Joint Ventures and historical industry data, which is used to develop assumptions of the likelihood the guaranteed parties will default and the level of credit losses in the event a default occurs. We have not made any payments under the guarantees, nor have we been called upon to do so. Indebtedness Our debt consisted of the following at December 31: (In millions) 2021 2020 Short-term and current maturities of long-term debt: Foreign lines of credit $ 240 $ 144 Finance lease and other financing obligations 268 240 Total short-term and current maturities of long-term debt $ 508 $ 384 Long-term debt: 4.750% senior notes due June 2021 $ $ 400 3.500% senior notes due October 2022 700 700 0.375% senior notes due July 2023 (Euro-denominated) 566 612 3.800% senior notes due October 2023 1,000 1,000 2.750% senior notes due July 2024 2,000 2,000 3.850% senior notes due June 2025 900 900 2.250% senior notes due July 2025 (British Pound-denominated) 705 709 3.200% senior notes due July 2026 2,000 2,000 2.250% senior notes due June 2027 1,000 1,000 1.125% senior notes due July 2027 (Euro-denominated) 566 612 4.200% senior notes due October 2028 1,000 1,000 3.500% senior notes due July 2029 3,000 3,000 2.650% senior notes due June 2030 1,000 1,000 1.625% senior notes due July 2030 (Euro-denominated) 566 612 3.000% senior notes due July 2031 (British Pound-denominated) 705 709 4.400% senior notes due July 2049 2,000 2,000 U.S. commercial paper notes 916 Euro commercial paper notes 905 Revolving credit facility 97 22 Receivable securitized loan 500 425 Term loan facility 200 1,250 Unamortized discount and deferred financing costs (125) (155) Finance lease and other financing obligations 528 504 Total long-term debt $ 20,729 $ 20,300 At December 31, 2021, our debt consisted primarily of $17.7 billion of fixed rate senior notes, $1.8 billion of outstanding borrowings under our U.S. and Euro commercial paper notes programs and $500 million under our receivables securitized loan. Interest on our U.S. dollar-denominated senior notes is paid semi-annually, while interest on our Euro- and British Pound-denominated senior notes is paid annually. Interest on our revolving credit facility and commercial paper notes is paid weekly, or more frequently on occasion, and interest on our term loans is paid monthly. Outstanding borrowings under our 3.50% senior notes due in October 2022, the receivable securitized loan which matures in July 2022, and U.S and Euro commercial paper notes programs are classified in the consolidated balance sheet as long-term, as we have the intent to refinance these notes on a 41 Table of Contents long-term basis through the continued issuance of new commercial paper notes upon maturity, and we also have the ability to refinance such notes under our revolving credit facility, which expires in September 2023. Our 4.75% senior notes due in June 2021 were classified in the consolidated balance sheet as long-term at December 31, 2020, as we had the intent and ability to refinance this debt on a long-term basis. These notes were subsequently refinanced in June 2021 through the issuance of U.S. commercial paper notes and proceeds obtained from the sale of our remaining ownership interest in InvestCloud. We were in compliance with all financial debt covenants during 2021. Our ability to meet future debt covenant requirements will depend on our continued ability to generate earnings and cash flows. We expect to remain in compliance with all terms and conditions associated with our outstanding debt, including financial debt covenants. Senior Notes We have outstanding $17.7 billion of various fixed-rate senior notes, as described above. The indentures governing our senior notes contain covenants that, among other matters, limit (i) our ability to consolidate or merge with or into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our properties and assets to, another person, (ii) our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to create or assume liens, and (iii) our and certain of our subsidiaries ability to engage in sale and leaseback transactions. We may, at our option, redeem the senior notes, in whole or from time to time in part, at any time prior to the applicable maturity date. The interest rate applicable to certain of the senior notes is subject to an increase of up to two percent in the event that the credit rating assigned to such notes is downgraded below investment grade. Commercial Paper We initiated an unsecured U.S. dollar commercial paper program in May 2021 and an unsecured Euro commercial paper program in November 2021. From time to time, we may issue under these programs U.S. dollar commercial paper with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issuance and Euro commercial paper with maturities of up to 183 days from the date of issuance. We use the proceeds of commercial paper issued under these programs to pay down other outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate purposes. Outstanding borrowings under the commercial paper programs bear interest at a fixed rate based on the prevailing rates at the time of issuance of the relevant commercial paper. Outstanding borrowings under the U.S. dollar program were $916 million at December 31, 2021, with a weighted average interest rate of 0.295%. Outstanding borrowings under the Euro program were $905 million at December 31, 2021, with a weighted average interest rate of (0.420)%, with maturities generally ranging from one day to four months. We intend to maintain available capacity under our revolving credit facility in an amount at least equal to the outstanding borrowings under our commercial paper programs. Revolving Credit Facility We maintain an amended and restated revolving credit facility, which matures in September 2023, with aggregate commitments available for $3.5 billion of total capacity. U.S. dollar borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR, typically at the overnight or 1-month rates, or a base rate, plus, in each case, a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. Foreign currency borrowings under the amended and restated revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on a benchmark applicable to the relevant currency, plus, in each case, a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the revolving credit facility borrowings was 1.16% at December 31, 2021. There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The amended and restated revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants that require us, among other things, to (i) limit our consolidated indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to no more than three and one-half times our consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, non-cash charges and expenses and certain other adjustments (EBITDA) during the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, subject to certain exceptions, and (ii) maintain EBITDA of at least three times our consolidated interest expense as of the end of each fiscal quarter for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended. Foreign Lines of Credit and Other Arrangements We maintain certain short-term lines of credit with foreign banks and alliance partners primarily to fund settlement activity. These arrangements are primarily associated with international operations and are in various functional currencies, the most significant of which is the Argentine peso. We had amounts outstanding on these lines of credit totaling $240 million and $144 million at a weighted-average interest rate of 21.01% and 21.98% at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Receivable Securitized Loan We maintain a consolidated wholly-owned subsidiary, First Data Receivables, LLC (FDR). FDR is a party to certain receivables financing arrangements, including an agreement (Receivables Financing Agreement) with certain financial 42 Table of Contents institutions and other persons from time to time party thereto as lenders and group agents, pursuant to which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have agreed to transfer and contribute receivables to FDR, and FDR in turn may obtain borrowings from the financial institutions and other lender parties to the Receivables Financing Agreement secured by liens on those receivables. FDRs assets are not available to satisfy the obligations of any other of our entities or affiliates, and FDRs creditors would be entitled, upon its liquidation, to be satisfied out of FDRs assets prior to any assets or value in FDR becoming available to us. FDR held $1.0 billion and $811 million in receivables as part of the securitization program at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. FDR utilized the receivables as collateral in borrowings of $500 million and $425 million as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, at an average interest rate of 0.95% and 1.00%, respectively. Outstanding borrowings bear interest at a variable rate based on one-month LIBOR plus a specified margin. At December 31, 2021, the collateral capacity under the Receivables Financing Agreement was $747 million, and the maximum borrowing capacity was $500 million. The term of the Receivables Financing Agreement is through July 2022. Term Loan Facility We maintain a term loan credit agreement with a syndicate of financial institutions that was funded in conjunction with the acquisition of First Data in an original principal amount of $5.0 billion. Following various amortization payments and prepayments, the aggregate principal amount outstanding under such agreement was $200 million at December 31, 2021. Borrowings under the term loan facility bear interest at variable rates based on one-month LIBOR or on a base rate, plus, in each case, a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time, and will mature in July 2024. The variable interest rate on the term loan facility borrowings was 1.35% at December 31, 2021. A portion of the net proceeds from our 2021 issuances of commercial paper, as described above, was used to pay down outstanding borrowings under the term loan facility. The term loan credit facility contains affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and events of default, that are substantially the same as those set forth in our existing amended and restated revolving credit facility, as described above. Other Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital, our ability to refinance maturing debt and our ability to fund future acquisitions. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our debt securities, perception of our potential future earnings and the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2021, we had a corporate credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moodys Investors Service, Inc. (Moodys) and BBB with a stable outlook from Standard & Poors Ratings Services (S&P) on our senior unsecured debt securities. As of December 31, 2021, we had a commercial paper credit rating of P-2 from Moodys and A-2 from S&P. The interest rates payable on certain of our senior notes, our term loan, commercial paper notes programs and our revolving credit facility are subject to adjustment from time to time if Moodys or S&P changes the debt rating applicable to the notes. If the ratings from Moodys or S&P decrease below investment grade, the per annum interest rates on the senior notes are subject to increase by up to two percent. In no event will the total increase in the per annum interest rates exceed two percent above the original interest rates, nor will the per annum interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate applicable to the senior notes. Cash and Cash Equivalents Investments, exclusive of settlement assets, with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to cash are considered to be cash equivalents as reflected within our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, we held $835 million and $906 million in cash and cash equivalents, respectively. The table below details the cash and cash equivalents at December 31: 2021 2020 (In millions) Domestic International Total Domestic International Total Available $ 180 $ 221 $ 401 $ 337 $ 177 $ 514 Unavailable (1) 138 296 434 57 335 392 Total $ 318 $ 517 $ 835 $ 394 $ 512 $ 906 (1) Represents cash held by our joint ventures that is not available to fund operations outside of those entities unless the board of directors for such entities declares a dividend, as well as cash held by certain other entities that are subject to foreign exchange controls in certain countries or regulatory capital requirements. 43 Table of Contents Employee Termination Costs In connection with the acquisition of First Data, we implemented integration plans focused on reducing our overall cost structure, including eliminating duplicate costs. We recorded $95 million and $131 million of employee termination costs related to severance and other separation costs for terminated employees, including those in connection with the acquisition of First Data, during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Accrued employee severance and other separation costs of $36 million at December 31, 2021 are expected to be paid within the next twelve months. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant uncertainty as to general global economic and market conditions. We believe we have adequate capital resources and sufficient access to external financing sources to satisfy our current and reasonably anticipated requirements for funds to conduct our operations and meet other needs in the ordinary course of our business. However, as the impact of the pandemic on the economy and our operations further evolves, we will continue to assess our liquidity needs. The ability to continue to service debt and meet lease and other obligations as they come due depends on our continued ability to generate earnings and cash flows. A lack of continued recovery or further deterioration in economic and market conditions could materially affect our future access to our sources of liquidity, particularly our cash flows from operations. We engage in regular communication with the banks that participate in our revolving credit facility. During these communications, none of the banks have indicated that they may be unable to perform on their commitments. We periodically review our banking and financing relationships, considering the stability of the institutions, pricing we receive on services and other aspects of the relationships. Based on these communications and our monitoring activities, we believe the likelihood of one of our banks not performing on its commitment is remote. We maintain U.S. and Euro commercial paper notes programs to access funding for general corporate purposes at favorable rates and to provide a source of liquidity. As of December 31, 2021, we had a commercial paper credit rating of P-2 from Moodys and A-2 from S&P. Any downgrade to our commercial paper credit ratings or instability in the commercial paper markets may adversely impact our ability to access funding through our commercial paper notes programs and require us to rely more heavily on more expensive financing arrangements, including our revolving credit facility. In addition, the long-term debt markets have historically provided us with a source of liquidity. Although we do not currently anticipate an inability to obtain financing from long-term debt markets in the future, effects of the COVID-19 pandemic could make financing more difficult and/or expensive to obtain. Our ability to access the long-term debt markets on favorable interest rate and other terms also depends on the ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies to our indebtedness. As of December 31, 2021, we had a corporate credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moodys and BBB with a stable outlook from S&P. In the event that the ratings of our outstanding long-term debt securities were substantially lowered or withdrawn for any reason, or if the ratings assigned to any new issue of long-term debt securities were significantly lower than those noted above, particularly if we no longer had investment grade ratings, our ability to access the debt markets could be adversely affected and our interest expense could increase under the terms of certain of our long-term debt securities.