Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any affiliated purchaser (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2024: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs (1) Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) October 1-31, 2024 2,155,547 $ 192.86 2,155,547 22,002,078 November 1-30, 2024 1,810,500 214.25 1,810,500 20,191,578 December 1-31, 2024 2,156,806 206.95 2,156,806 18,034,772 Total 6,122,853 6,122,853 (1)On February 19, 2025 and February 22, 2023, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 60.0 million and 75.0 million shares of our common stock, respectively. These authorizations do not expire. Stock Performance Graph The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31, 2024 with the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Financials Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2019 in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. 25 Table of Contents December 31, 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Fiserv, Inc. $ 100 $ 98 $ 90 $ 87 $ 115 $ 178 S&P 500 Index 100 118 152 125 158 197 S&P 500 Financials Index 100 98 133 119 133 174 Item 6. [Reserved] Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Effective in the first quarter of 2024, we realigned our reportable segments to correspond with changes in our business designed to further enhance operational performance in the delivery of our integrated portfolio of products and solutions to our financial institution clients (the Segment Realignment). Our new reportable segments are the Merchant Solutions (Merchant) segment and the Financial Solutions (Financial) segment. Segment results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 have been recast to reflect the Segment Realignment. This section generally discusses information and results pertaining to the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. Information and discussion of results pertaining to the year ended December 31, 2022 not included herein can be found in Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year 2023, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 22, 2024. Our discussion is organized as follows: Overview. This section contains background information on our company and the products and services that we provide, acquisitions and dispositions, our enterprise priorities, and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Critical accounting policies and estimates. This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. Our critical accounting policies are also summarized in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Results of operations. This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income by comparing the consolidated and segment results for the year ended December 31, 2024 to the consolidated and segment results for the year ended December 31, 2023. Due to the Segment Realignment, this section also compares segment results for the year ended December 31, 2023 to the segment results for the year ended December 31, 2022. Liquidity and capital resources. This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at December 31, 2024. Overview Company Background We are a leading global provider of payments and financial services technology solutions. We serve clients around the globe, including merchants, banks, credit unions, other financial institutions, corporate and public sector clients. We help clients achieve best-in-class results through a commitment to innovation and excellence in areas including account processing and digital banking solutions; card issuer processing and network services; payments; e-commerce; merchant acquiring and processing; and the Clover cloud-based point-of-sale (POS) and business management platform. Most of the products and services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are therefore non-discretionary in nature. We serve our global client base by working among our geographic teams across various regions, including the United States of America (U.S.) and Canada; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Latin America; and Asia Pacific. The businesses in our Merchant segment provide commerce-enabling products and services to companies of all sizes around the world. These products and services include merchant acquiring and digital commerce services; mobile payment services; security and fraud protection solutions; stored-value solutions; software-as-a-service; POS devices; and pay-by-bank solutions. The business lines aggregated within the Merchant segment consist of the following: Small Business provides products and services to small businesses and independent software vendors (ISV), including Clover, our POS and business management platform for small business clients Enterprise provides products and services to large businesses, including our integrated omnichannel operating system for enterprise clients Processing provides products and services to financial institutions, joint ventures, and other third party resellers which have direct relationships with merchants We distribute the products and services in our Merchant segment businesses through a variety of channels, including direct sales teams, strategic partnerships with agent sales forces, ISVs, financial institutions and other strategic partners in the form of joint venture alliances, revenue sharing alliances and referral agreements. The businesses in our Financial segment provide products and services to financial institution, corporate and public sector clients across the world, enabling the processing of customer loan and deposit accounts, digital payments and card transactions. The business lines aggregated within the Financial segment consist of the following: Digital Payments provides debit card processing services; debit network services; security and fraud protection products; bill payment; person-to-person payments; and account-to-account transfers Issuing provides credit card processing services; prepaid card processing services; card production services; print services; government payment processing; and student loan processing Banking provides customer loan and deposit account processing; digital banking; financial and risk management; professional services and consulting; and check processing Corporate and Other supports the reportable segments described above, and consists of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, unallocated corporate expenses and other activities that are not considered when we evaluate segment performance, such as gains or losses on sales of businesses, certain assets or investments; costs associated with acquisition and divestiture activity; certain services revenue associated with various dispositions; and postage reimbursements. 27 Table of Contents Acquisitions and Dispositions We frequently review our businesses to ensure we have the necessary assets to execute our strategy. We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; a way to achieve business scale that enables competition and operational efficiency; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. The results of operations for the following acquired and divested businesses are included in our consolidated results from the respective dates of acquisition and through the respective dates of disposition. Acquisitions of Businesses On October 9, 2023, we acquired Skytef Soluces em Captura de Transaes Ltda (Skytef), a distributor for ISV partners and merchants of our Electronic Funds Transfer payments software. Skytef is included within the Merchant segment and expands our distribution network and POS applications. On November 1, 2023, we acquired Sled S.A. (Sled), a provider of instant payment solutions. Sled is included within the Merchant segment and expands our direct payment service capabilities. We acquired these businesses in Latin America for an aggregate purchase price, including hold-backs, of $17 million. Pending Acquisitions In 2024, we entered into definitive agreements to acquire CCV Group B.V. (CCV) and Payfare Inc. (Payfare). CCV is a supplier of POS payment solutions. Upon the closing of this acquisition, which is subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions, CCV will be included within the Merchant segment and is expected to expand our network of payment solutions. Payfare is a provider of program management solutions powering instant access to earnings and banking solutions for workforces. Upon the closing of this acquisition, which is subject to shareholder and court approvals and customary closing conditions, Payfare will be included within the Financial segment and is expected to expand our embedded finance capabilities. We expect these acquisitions, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $360 million, to close in the first quarter of 2025. Dispositions of Businesses On July 25, 2023, we sold our financial reconciliation business, which was reported within the Financial segment, for cash proceeds of $235 million. We recognized a pre-tax gain of $172 million on the sale during the year ended December 31, 2023. Other Transactions In the third quarter of 2024, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (Wells Fargo) provided us with a notice of non-renewal for the Wells Fargo Merchant Services merchant alliance (WFMS), which is accounted for as an equity method investment. With the joint venture expected to expire on April 1, 2025, we expect to receive a cash payment equal to the fair value of our 40% ownership interest of WFMS as determined in accordance with an agreed upon contractual valuation and separation process. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we recorded a $595 million non-cash impairment as a result of an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of our equity method investment in WFMS. In connection with the expiration of WFMS, we entered into a multi-year agreement with Wells Fargo to provide processing for current and future merchant clients as well as other services to Wells Fargos merchant business. On September 25, 2023, we acquired the remaining 49% ownership interest in European Merchant Services B.V., a Netherlands-based merchant acceptance business, for $56 million. We previously held a majority controlling financial interest in this subsidiary, which continues to be consolidated and reported within the Merchant segment. Enterprise Priorities We aspire to move money and information in a way that moves the world. Our purpose is to deliver superior value for our clients through leading technology, targeted innovation and excellence in everything we do. We are focused on driving growth and creating value by assembling a high-performing and diverse team; integrating our solutions; delivering operational excellence; allocating capital in a disciplined manner, including share repurchase and merger and acquisition activity; and investing for organic growth through innovation. Our long-term focus is to meet our financial commitments; continue to build high-quality revenue; deepen client relationships with an emphasis on digital solutions and value-added services; deliver innovation and integration enabling differentiated value for our clients; and generate integration value, including cost and revenue synergies from acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents Industry Trends The global payments landscape continues to evolve, with rapidly advancing technologies and a steady expansion of digital payments, e-commerce and real-time payments infrastructure. Because of this growth, competition also continues to intensify. Business and consumer expectations continue to rise, with a focus on speed, convenience, choice and security. To meet these expectations, payments companies are focused on modernizing their technology, expanding the use of data and enhancing the customer experience. Merchants The rapid growth in and globalization of mobile and e-commerce, driven by consumers desire for simpler, more efficient shopping experiences, has created an opportunity for merchants to reach consumers nearly anywhere, through any device, which often requires a merchant acquiring provider to enable and optimize the acceptance of payments. Merchants are demanding simpler, integrated and flexible systems to enable them to serve customers and help manage cash flow and everyday business operations. When combined with the ever-increasing ways a consumer can pay for goods and services, merchants have sought modern end-to-end solutions throughout their growth lifecycle to streamline the complexity. Furthermore, merchants can now search, discover, compare, purchase and even install a new system through direct, digital-only experiences. This direct, digital-only channel is a source of new merchant acquisition opportunities, especially with respect to smaller merchants. Additionally, there are numerous software-as-a-service solution providers in the industry, many of which have chosen to integrate merchant acquiring into their software as a way to generate revenue from existing client relationships. Such providers are independent software vendors, typically referred to as ISVs, and we believe there are numerous potential distribution partnership opportunities to cross-sell multiple value-added solutions available to us. We believe that our merchant acquiring products and solutions create compelling value propositions for merchant clients of all sizes, from small and mid-sized businesses to medium-sized regional businesses to global enterprise merchants. The depth and breadth of our omnichannel solutions, and flexibility to serve clients across various channels and geographies, drives higher product attach rates with new and existing clients across all verticals. Furthermore, we believe that our strength in distribution, our progress growing software and services, and our value-based pricing as we continue to invest in our operating systems, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Financial Institutions Financial services providers regularly introduce and implement new payment, deposit, risk management, lending and investment products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, the evolving global regulatory and cybersecurity landscape has continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. These conditions are driving heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. In addition, the focus on the customer experience, including through mobile and online engagement, by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, continues to elevate the data and transaction processing needs of financial institutions. Financial institutions must be able to serve their customers with tailored solutions, delivered how and when those customers want. In addition, financial institutions are striving for this single, integrated view of a customers activity. This requires financial institutions to not only process customer transactions, but to integrate financial institutions products and services to give customers easy access to integrated solutions. We believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. We have invested in integrating our platforms and value-added solutions to make it easy for a client to buy across our full product suite. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environmental shift from traditional to digital banking. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including a unified, seamless customer experience across mobile and online channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. Our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations transfer accounts among financial institutions. If a client loss occurs due to merger or acquisition, we typically receive a 29 Table of Contents contract termination fee based on the size of the client and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. We believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our value-added software and services-led model, and our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Recent Market Conditions Global macroeconomic conditions, including changing interest rates, inflation, disruptions in the global supply chain, changes in consumer spending, the effects of international hostilities, political conditions, and regulations restricting trade or impacting our ability to offer products or services, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Personal consumption and consumer savings growth in the U.S. may also negatively impact our business and financial results. We actively monitor and manage our business in response to these unpredictable geopolitical and market conditions, as they may adversely impact our operations and financial results. In addition, our operating results in certain foreign countries in which we operate may be adversely impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates for currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the Euro, British Pound Sterling, Indian Rupee, Brazilian Real and Argentine Peso. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar against certain foreign currencies in countries in which we operate would negatively impact our revenue and earnings. We also have exposure to risks related to currency devaluation in certain countries, which may negatively impact our international operating results if there is a prolonged devaluation of local currencies relative to the U.S. dollar or if the economic conditions in these countries decline. While the majority of our revenue is earned in the U.S., we actively monitor the foreign exchange rate environment and may enter into derivative instruments and utilize other non-derivative hedging instruments with creditworthy institutions in an effort to manage these risks. The operations of our Argentina subsidiary have experienced higher interest rates and inflation relative to historical averages. The potential benefits of higher transitory revenue from above-average interest and inflation may be offset in whole or in part by, or may be less than, foreign currency exchange losses related to a significant devaluation of the Argentine Peso. For discussion of risks and potential challenges applicable to our business, results of operations and financial condition, see Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors. For managements assessment of market risks, including interest rate and foreign currency risks, see Part II.