ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 . Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of cloud software for contact centers, facilitating more than three billion interactions between our more than 2,000 clients and their customers per year. We believe we achieved this leadership position through our expertise and technology, which has empowered us to help organizations of all sizes transition from legacy on-premise contact center systems to our cloud solution. Our solution, which is comprised of our Virtual Contact Center, or VCC, cloud platform and applications, allows simultaneous management and optimization of customer interactions across voice, chat, email, web, social media and mobile channels, either directly or through our application programming interfaces, or APIs. Our VCC cloud platform routes each customer interaction to an appropriate agent resource, and delivers relevant customer data to the agent in real-time to optimize the customer experience. Unlike legacy on-premise contact center systems, our solution requires minimal up-front investment and can be rapidly deployed and adjusted depending on our clients requirements. Since founding our business in 2001, we have focused exclusively on delivering cloud contact center software. We initially targeted smaller contact center opportunities with our telesales team and, over time, invested in expanding the breadth and depth of the functionality of our cloud platform to meet the evolving requirements of our clients. In 2009, we made a strategic decision to expand our market opportunity to include larger contact centers. This decision drove further investments in research and development and the establishment of our field sales team to meet the requirements of these larger contact centers. We believe this shift has helped us diversify our client base, while significantly enhancing our opportunity for future revenue growth. To complement these efforts, we have also focused on building client awareness and driving adoption of our solution through marketing activities, which include internet advertising, digital marketing campaigns, social marketing, trade shows, industry events and telemarketing. We provide our solution through a SaaS business model with recurring subscriptions. We offer a comprehensive suite of applications delivered on our VCC cloud platform that are designed to enable our clients to manage and optimize interactions across inbound and outbound contact centers. We primarily generate revenue by selling subscriptions and related usage of our VCC cloud platform. We charge our clients monthly subscription fees for access to our solution, primarily based on the number of agent seats, as well as the specific functionalities and applications our clients deploy. We define agent seats as the maximum number of named agents allowed to concurrently access our solution. Our clients typically have more named agents than agent seats, and multiple named agents may use an agent seat, though not simultaneously. Substantially all of our clients purchase both subscriptions and related telephony usage from us. A small percentage of our clients subscribe to our platform but purchase telephony usage directly from wholesale telecommunications service providers. We do not sell telephony usage on a stand-alone basis to any client. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts to our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for changes in the number of agent seats. Our clients can use this notice period to rapidly adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs, including to reduce the number of agent seats to zero. As a general matter, this means that a client can effectively terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Our larger clients typically choose annual contracts, which generally include an implementation and ramp period of several months. Fixed subscription fees, including bundled plans, are generally billed monthly in advance, while related usage fees are billed in arrears. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , subscription and related usage fees accounted for 92% and 94% of our revenue, respectively. The remainder was comprised of professional services revenue from the implementation and optimization of our solution. Key GAAP Operating Results Our revenue increased to $58.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 from $47.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Revenue growth has primarily been driven by our larger clients. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 , no single client accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. As of March 31, 2018 , we had over 2,000 clients across multiple industries. Our clients subscriptions generally range in 23 Table of Contents size from fewer than 10 agent seats to approximately 2,000 agent seats. We had net loss of $0.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net loss of $5.3 million in the three months ended March 31, 2017 . We have continued to make significant expenditures and investments, including in sales and marketing, research and development and infrastructure. We primarily evaluate the success of our business based on revenue growth, adjusted EBITDA and the efficiency and effectiveness of our investments. The growth of our business and our future success depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to expand our client base, particularly in larger opportunities, grow revenue from our existing client base, develop innovative products and features, and expand internationally. While these areas represent significant opportunities for us, they also pose risks and challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. In order to pursue these opportunities, we anticipate that we will continue to expand our operations and headcount in the near term. Due to our continuing investments to grow our business, increase our sales and marketing efforts, pursue new opportunities, enhance our solution and build our technology, we expect our cost of revenue and operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. However, we expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue as we grow our revenue and gain economies of scale by increasing our client base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Performance Metrics In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate We believe that our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate provides insight into our ability to retain and grow revenue from our clients, and is a measure of the long-term value of our client relationships. Our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate is calculated by dividing our Retained Net Invoicing by our Retention Base Net Invoicing on a monthly basis, which we then average using the rates for the trailing twelve months for the period being presented. We define Retention Base Net Invoicing as recurring net invoicing from all clients in the comparable prior year period, and we define Retained Net Invoicing as recurring net invoicing from that same group of clients in the current period. We define recurring net invoicing as subscription and related usage revenue excluding the impact of service credits, reserves and deferrals. Historically, the difference between recurring net invoicing and our subscription and related usage revenue has been within 10%. The following table shows our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate for the periods presented: Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate 98% 99% Our Dollar-Based Retention Rate declined year over year primarily due to the termination of one customer for non-payment and the bankruptcy of another customer. Adjusted EBITDA We monitor adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude from adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from that of other 24 Table of Contents companies in our industry. We compensate for the inherent limitations associated with using adjusted EBITDA through disclosure of these limitations, presentation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, net loss. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss before (1) depreciation and amortization, (2) stock-based compensation, (3) interest income, expense and other, (4) provision for income taxes, and (5) other unusual items that do not directly affect what we consider to be our core operating performance. The following table shows a reconciliation from net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Net loss $ (607 ) $ (5,255 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization (1) 2,320 2,095 Stock-based compensation (2) 5,325 3,129 Interest expense 810 882 Interest income and other (398 ) (118 ) Legal settlement (3) 1,700 Legal and indemnification fees related to settlement (3) 135 Provision for income taxes 45 49 Adjusted EBITDA $ 7,495 $ 2,617 (1) Depreciation and amortization expenses included in our results of operations are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Cost of revenue $ 1,794 $ 1,576 Research and development 194 206 Sales and marketing 29 30 General and administrative 303 283 Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,320 $ 2,095 (2) See Note 7 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements for stock-based compensation expense included in our results of operations for the periods presented. (3) Represents settlement amount, legal and indemnification fees related to the settlement of a litigation. Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of subscription and related usage as well as professional services. We consider our subscription and related usage to be recurring revenue. This recurring revenue includes fixed subscription fees for the delivery and support of our VCC cloud platform, as well as related usage fees. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound client interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts for our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for changes in the number of agent seats. Our clients can use this notice period to rapidly adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs, including to reduce the number of agent seats to zero. As a general matter, this means that a client can effectively terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Fixed subscription fees, including plans with bundled usage, are generally billed monthly in advance, while variable usage fees are billed in arrears. Fixed subscription fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the 25 Table of Contents applicable term, predominantly the monthly contractual billing period. Support activities include technical assistance for our solution and upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis, which are not billed separately. Variable subscription related usage fees for non-bundled plans are billed in arrears based on client-specific per minute rate plans and are recognized as actual usage occurs. We generally require advance deposits from clients based on estimated usage. All fees, except usage deposits, are non-refundable. In addition, we generate professional services revenue from assisting clients in implementing our solution and optimizing use. These services include application configuration, system integration and education and training services. Professional services are primarily billed on a fixed-fee basis and are typically performed by us directly. In limited cases, our clients choose to perform these services themselves or engage their own third-party service providers to perform such services. Professional services are recognized as the services are performed using the proportional performance method, with performance measured based on labor hours, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. The adoption of ASC 606, the new revenue recognition guidance, in January 2018 did not have a material impact on the recognition or timing of revenue. See Note 2 of notes to condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs (including stock-based compensation), fees that we pay to telecommunications providers for usage, USF contributions and other regulatory costs, depreciation and related expenses of the servers and equipment, costs to build out and maintain co-location data centers, and allocated office and facility costs and amortization of acquired technology. Cost of revenue can fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the fees we pay to telecommunications providers, which vary depending on our clients usage of our VCC cloud platform, the timing of capital expenditures and related depreciation charges and changes in headcount. We expect to continue investing in our network infrastructure and operations and client support function to maintain high quality and availability of service, resulting in absolute dollar increases in Cost of Revenue. As our business grows, we expect to realize economies of scale in network infrastructure, personnel and client support. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses as research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for personnel related to the development of improvements and expanded features for our services, as well as quality assurance, testing, product management and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred except for internal-use software development costs that qualify for capitalization. We believe that continued investment in our solution is important for our future growth, and we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future, although these expenses as a percentage of our revenue are expected to decrease over time. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for personnel in sales and marketing, sales commissions, as well as advertising, marketing, corporate communications, travel costs and allocated overhead. Prior to the adoption of ASC 606, we expensed sales commissions associated with the acquisition of client contracts as incurred in the period the contract is acquired. Upon the adoption of ASC 606 in January 2018, a significant amount of our sales commission expenses have been deferred over an expected benefit period of five years as required by ASC 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers. See Note 2 of notes to condensed consolidated financial statements in this report for additional information. We believe it is important to continue investing in sales and marketing to continue to generate revenue growth. Accordingly, while we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our growth initiatives, with the adoption of ASC 606 in January 2018, we expect sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue to decrease in our consolidated statements of operations due to the deferral of a significant portion of sales commissions as required by ASC 340-40. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for management, finance and accounting, legal, information systems and human resources personnel, professional fees, compliance costs, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. 26 Table of Contents We expect that general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period, but decline as a percentage of revenue over time. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense associated with our debt and capital leases. We expect interest expense for our capital leases to increase as a result of our continued capital spending funded by capital leases. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of corporate income taxes resulting from profits generated in foreign jurisdictions by our wholly-owned subsidiaries, along with state income taxes payable in the United States. We do not expect the new legislation signed into law by President Trump in December 2017 to have a significant impact on our future income tax provision. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Based on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the following table sets forth our operating results as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 42 % 42 % Gross profit 58 % 58 % Operating expenses: Research and development 13 % 15 % Sales and marketing 30 % 34 % General and administrative 15 % 18 % Total operating expenses 58 % 67 % Loss from operations % (9 )% Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (1 )% (2 )% Interest income and other % % Total other income (expense), net (1 )% (2 )% Loss before income taxes (1 )% (11 )% Provision for income taxes % % Net loss (1 )% (11 )% Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 58,905 $ 47,014 $ 11,891 25 % The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily attributable to our larger clients, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing activities and our improved brand awareness. The adoption of ASC 606 in January 2018 did not have a material impact on the recognition or timing of revenue. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 24,702 $ 19,971 $ 4,731 24 % % of Revenue 42 % 42 % The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to a $2.0 million increase in third party hosted software costs driven by increased client activities and change in timing of the release of deferred cost as required by ASC 340-40 in connection with the adoption of the new revenue standard, a $1.5 million increase in cash-based personnel costs driven mainly by increased headcount, and a $0.6 million increase in USF contributions and other federal telecommunication service fees due primarily to increased client usage. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 34,203 $ 27,043 $ 7,160 26 % % of Revenue 58 % 58 % The increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to increases in subscription and usage revenues. Gross margin remained consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 . Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 7,772 $ 6,847 $ 925 14 % % of Revenue 13 % 15 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to a $0.9 million increase in personnel costs including stock-based compensation costs, driven mainly by increased headcount and higher fair value of employee equity awards due primarily to our increased stock price. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 17,478 $ 15,778 $ 1,700 11 % % of Revenue 30 % 34 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to a $2.0 million increase in personnel-related costs including stock-based compensation costs, driven mainly by increased headcount and higher fair value of employee equity awards due 28 Table of Contents primarily to our increased stock price, offset in part by a $0.8 million decrease in sales commission expense resulting from the adoption of the new accounting guidance in January 2018. The new accounting guidance requires us to capitalize incremental costs of obtaining contracts with customers consisting primarily of sales commissions. Accordingly, our sales commission expense for the first quarter of 2018 decreased by approximately $1.7 million . See Note 2 for additional information. These increases, as well as the remainder of the increased sales and marketing expenses, were primarily due to the execution of our growth strategy to acquire new clients, to increase the number of agent seats within our existing client base, and to establish brand awareness. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 9,103 $ 8,860 $ 243 3 % % of Revenue 15 % 18 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to a $1.3 million increase in stock-based compensation costs mainly due to higher fair value of employee equity awards driven by our increased stock price, a $0.6 million increase in cash-based personnel-related costs driven by increased headcount, offset in part by a $1.8 million settlement and legal costs incurred in the first quarter of 2017. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (810 ) $ (882 ) $ 72 8 % Interest income and other 398 118 280 237 % Total other income (expense), net $ (412 ) $ (764 ) $ 352 46 % % of Revenue (1 )% (2 )% The favorable change in other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the same period of 2017 was primarily due to a $0.3 million gain from the sale of our convertible notes held for investment. See Note 3 for additional information. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our solution, lease facilities and net proceeds from our equity and debt financings. As of March 31, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $80.7 million . As of March 31, 2018 , we had a total of $32.6 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility governed by our 2016 Loan and Security Agreement as described below. On August 1, 2016, we entered into a loan agreement (2016 Loan and Security Agreement) with two lenders for a new revolving credit facility (Revolving Credit Facility) of up to $50.0 million. The Revolving Credit Facility matures on August 1, 2019. Under the terms of the Revolving Credit Facility, the balance outstanding cannot exceed our trailing four months of MRR (monthly recurring revenue including subscription and usage) multiplied by the average trailing 12 month dollar based retention rate (calculated on the same basis as described above under the heading Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate). The Revolving Credit Facility carries a variable annual interest rate of the prime rate plus 0.50%, subject to a 0.25% increase if our adjusted EBITDA is negative at the end of any fiscal quarter. As of March 31, 2018 , the amount available for additional borrowings was $17.4 million . We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and the amount available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility (or any refinancing of the facility) will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our 29 Table of Contents growth rate, continuing market acceptance of our solution, client retention, our ability to gain new clients, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the outcome of any pending or future litigation or other claims by third parties or governmental entities, the expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new and enhanced offerings. We may also acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies and intellectual property rights, which may increase our future capital requirements, both to pay acquisition costs and to support our combined operations. We may raise additional equity or debt financing at any time. We may not be able to raise additional equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or required, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, if our operating performance during the next twelve months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be harmed If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we will be subject to increased debt service obligations and could also be subject to new or additional restrictive covenants and other operating restrictions that could harm our ability to conduct our business. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 March 31, 2017 $ Change % Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 7,997 $ 159 $ 7,838 4,930 % Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,490 (514 ) 2,004 390 % Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,242 (1,315 ) 3,557 270 % Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 11,729 $ (1,670 ) $ 13,399 802 % Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by or used in operating activities is primarily influenced by our personnel-related expenditures, data center and telecommunications carrier costs, office and facility related costs, USF contributions and other regulatory costs and the amount and timing of client payments. If we continue to improve our financial results, we expect net cash provided by operating activities to increase. Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our clients for subscription and related usage services. Payments from clients for these services are typically received monthly. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities was $8.0 million compared to $0.2 million for the same period of 2017 . The increase was due to a $6.8 million favorable impact from a decrease in net loss after adjusting for non-cash expenses and a $1.0 million favorable change in net cash flows from operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities was $ 1.2 million compared to $0.2 million for the same period of 2017, resulted in an overall improvement of $1.0 million . This improvement was primarily due to a favorable change of $2.1 million in accounts receivable attributed to increased collections from clients and $1.3 million in accounts payable due to timing of payments, offset in part by an unfavorable change of $1.7 million in deferred contract acquisition costs due to the deferral of incremental sales commissions as required by the new accounting guidance in connection with the adoption of ASC 606, and $0.8 million in deferred revenue primarily driven by the adoption of ASC 606. See Note 2 for more information on the adoption impact of ASC 606. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net cash used $0.5 million for the same period in 2017 . The favorable change was primarily driven by the $1.9 million cash proceeds from the sale of our investment during the three months ended March 31, 2018 . See Note 3 . Our most significant capital expenditures have been investments in our software and equipment for our data centers. We expect such capital investment will continue in the future. 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $2.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to net cash used of $1.3 million for the same period in 2017 . This favorable change was primarily driven by a $4.0 million increase in cash received from stock option exercises during the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe our critical accounting policies involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized when control of the promised services are transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. We generate all of our revenue from contracts with customers. In contracts with multiple performance obligations, we identify each performance obligation and evaluate whether the performance obligations are distinct within the context of the contract at contract inception. Performance obligations that are not distinct at contract inception are combined. We allocate the transaction price to each distinct performance obligation proportionately based on the estimated standalone selling price for each performance obligation. We then look to how services are transferred to the customer in order to determine the timing of revenue recognition. Most services provided under our agreements result in the transfer of control over time. Our revenue consists of subscription services and related usage as well as professional services. We charge clients subscription fees, usually billed on a monthly basis, for access to our VCC solution. The monthly subscription fees are primarily based on the number of agent seats, as well as the specific VCC functionalities and applications deployed by the client. Agent seats are defined as the maximum number of named agents allowed to concurrently access the VCC cloud platform. Clients typically have more named agents than agent seats. Multiple named agents may use an agent seat, though not simultaneously. Substantially all of our clients purchase both subscriptions and related telephony usage. A small percentage of our clients subscribe to our platform but purchase telephony usage directly from a wholesale telecommunications service provider. We do not sell telephony usage on a stand-alone basis to any client. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes used for inbound and outbound client interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, whereby the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. Professional services revenue is derived primarily from VCC implementations, including application configuration, system integration, optimization, education and training services. Clients are not permitted to take possession of our software. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts to our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for changes in the number of agent seats and sometimes with a minimum number of agent seats required. Larger clients typically choose annual contracts, which generally include an implementation and ramp period of several months. Fixed subscription fees (including bundled plans) are generally billed monthly in advance, while related usage fees are billed in arrears. Support activities include technical assistance for our solution and upgrades and enhancements to the VCC cloud platform on a when-and-if-available basis, which are not billed separately. Professional services are primarily billed on a fixed-fee basis and are performed by us directly or, alternatively, clients may also choose to perform these services themselves or engage their own third-party service providers. The estimation of variable consideration for each performance obligation requires us to make some subjective judgments. In the early stages of our larger contracts, we must estimate variable consideration to be included in the transaction fee, to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved, in order to allocate the overall transaction fee on a relative stand-alone selling price basis to our multiple 31 Table of Contents performance obligations. This requires the estimate of unit quantities, especially during the initial ramp period of the contract, during which we bill under an actual usage model for subscription-related services. We recognize revenue on fixed fee professional services performance obligations based on the proportion of labor hours expended compared to the total hours expected to complete the related performance obligation. The revenue recognition standards include guidance relating to any tax assessed by a governmental authority that is directly imposed on a revenue-producing transaction between a seller and a customer and may include, but is not limited to, sales, use, value added and excise taxes. We record USF contributions and other regulatory costs on a gross basis in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss and record surcharges and sales, use and excise taxes billed to our clients on a net basis. The cost of gross USF contributions payable to the USAC and suppliers is presented as a cost of revenue in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Contractual Obligations Our principal contractual obligations consist of future payment obligations under capital leases to finance data centers and other computer and networking equipment, debt agreements (see Note 6 ), operating leases agreements for office space, research and development, and sales and marketing facilities, and agreements with third parties to provide co-location hosting, telecommunication usage and equipment maintenance services. These commitments as of December 31, 2017 are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 , and did not change materially during the three months ended March 31, 2018 except for the acquisition of certain additional data center and network equipment and software under multiple capital leases and certain hosting and telecommunications agreements. As of March 31, 2018 , the total minimum future payment commitments under these capital leases added during the three months ended March 31, 2018 were approximately $3.7 million , of which $1.1 million is due during the remainder of 2018, with the remaining $2.6 million due in 2019 to 2021 . During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we entered into various hosting and telecommunications agreements for terms of 12 to 36 months commencing on various dates in 2018. These agreements require us to make monthly payments over the service term in exchange for certain network services. Our total minimum future payment commitments under these agreements are $2.1 million . 32 Table of Contents