ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of intelligent cloud contact centers with more than 3,000 clients. We believe we achieved this leadership position through our expertise and technology, which has empowered us to help organizations of all sizes transition from legacy on-premise contact center systems to our cloud solution. Our solution, comprised of our Virtual Contact Center, or VCC, cloud platform and applications, allows simultaneous management and optimization of customer interactions across voice, chat, email, web, social media and mobile channels, either directly or through our application programming interfaces, or APIs. Our VCC cloud platform matches each customer interaction with an appropriate agent resource and delivers relevant customer data to the agent in real-time through integrations with adjacent enterprise applications, such as customer relationship management, or CRM, software, to optimize the customer experience and improve agent productivity. Unlike legacy on-premise contact center systems, our solution requires minimal up-front investment, can be rapidly deployed and adjusted depending on our clients requirements. Since founding our business in 2001, we have focused exclusively on delivering cloud contact center software. We initially targeted smaller contact center opportunities with our telesales team and, over time, invested in expanding the breadth and depth of the functionality of our cloud platform to meet the evolving requirements of our clients. In 2009, we made a strategic decision to expand our market opportunity to include larger contact centers. This decision drove further investments in research and development and the establishment of our field sales team to meet the requirements of these larger contact centers. We believe this shift has helped us diversify our client base, while significantly enhancing our opportunity for future revenue growth. To complement these efforts, we have also focused on building client awareness and driving adoption of our solution through marketing activities, which include internet advertising, digital marketing campaigns, social media, trade shows, industry events, telemarketing and out of home campaigns. We provide our solution through a SaaS business model with recurring subscriptions. We offer a comprehensive suite of applications delivered on our VCC cloud platform that are designed to enable our clients to manage and optimize interactions across inbound and outbound contact centers. We primarily generate revenue by selling subscriptions and related usage of our VCC cloud platform. We charge our clients monthly subscription fees for access to our solution, primarily based on the number of agent seats, as well as the specific functionalities and applications our clients deploy. We define agent seats as the maximum number of named agents allowed to concurrently access our solution. Our clients typically have more named agents than agent seats, and multiple named agents may use an agent seat, though not simultaneously. Substantially all of our clients purchase both subscriptions and related telephony usage from us. A small percentage of our clients subscribe to our platform but purchase telephony usage directly from wholesale telecommunications service providers. We do not sell telephony usage on a stand-alone basis to any client. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts to our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for reductions in the number of agent seats. Increases in the number of agent seats can be provisioned almost immediately. Our clients, therefore, are able to adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs. Our larger clients typically choose annual contracts, which generally include an implementation and ramp period of several months. Fixed subscription fees, including bundled plans, are generally billed monthly in advance, while related usage fees are billed in arrears. For the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, subscription and related usage fees accounted for 93% and 92% of our revenue, respectively. The remainder was comprised of professional services revenue from the implementation and optimization of our solution. Macroeconomic and Other Factors We are subject to risks and exposures, including those caused by adverse economic conditions, including macroeconomic deterioration, the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the conflict in Israel. Macroeconomic factors include the global economic slowdown, continued inflation, increased interest rates, supply chain disruptions, decreased economic output and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We continuously monitor the direct and indirect impacts of these circumstances on our business and financial results, as well as the 29 Table of Contents overall global economy and geopolitical landscape. While the implications of macroeconomic events on our business, results of operations and overall financial position remain uncertain over the long term, we expect that adverse economic conditions will continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue in future periods. For example, our installed base business, which typically contributes approximately half of our annual revenue growth, continues to experience macroeconomic headwinds. In March 2022 we decided to close our Russia office and to establish a new European development center in Portugal, in part due to the growing uncertainty arising from the Russia-Ukraine conflict. During the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, we incurred approximately $0.1 million and $0.7 million in costs related to the closure and relocation of our Russian operations, of which $0.0 million and $0.5 million was recorded in research and development expense, $0.0 million and $0.1 million was recorded in general and administrative expense, and $0.1 million and $0.1 million was recorded in interest income and other in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Going forward, we do not expect to incur additional material costs related to the closure and relocation of our Russia operations. We currently do not believe that this decision will have a material effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Key GAAP Operating Results Our revenue increased to $247.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 from $218.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Revenue growth was primarily attributable to our larger clients, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing activities and our improved brand awareness. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, no single client accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. As of March 31, 2024, we had over 3,000 clients across multiple industries with a wide range of seat sizes. We had a net loss of $7.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024, compared to a net loss of $27.2 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023. We have continued to make significant expenditures and investments, including in sales and marketing, research and development and infrastructure. We primarily evaluate the success of our business based on revenue growth and the efficiency and effectiveness of our investments. The growth of our business and our future success depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to expand our base of larger clients, grow revenue from our existing clients, innovate and expand internationally. While these areas represent significant opportunities for us, they also pose risks and challenges that we must successfully address, including the impact of macroeconomic deterioration, the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the conflict in Israel, in order to successfully grow our business and improve our operating results. Key Operating and Non-GAAP Financial Performance Metrics In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate We believe that our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate provides insight into our ability to retain and grow revenue from our clients, and is a measure of the long-term value of our client relationships. Our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate is calculated by dividing our Retained Net Revenue by our Retention Base Net Revenue on a monthly basis, which we then average using the rates for the trailing twelve months for the period presented. We define Retention Base Net Revenue as recurring net revenue from all clients in the comparable prior year period, and we define Retained Net Revenue as recurring net revenue from that same group of clients in the current period. We define recurring net revenue as net subscription and related usage revenue. The following table shows our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate based on Net Revenue for the periods presented: Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate 109% 114% Our Dollar-Based Retention Rate decreased year-over-year primarily due to continued macroeconomic headwinds on our installed base. 30 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA We monitor adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude from adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from that of other companies in our industry. We compensate for the inherent limitations associated with using adjusted EBITDA through disclosure of these limitations, presentation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, net loss. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss before (1) depreciation and amortization, (2) stock-based compensation, (3) interest expense, (4) gain on early extinguishment of debt, (5) interest (income) and other, (6) exit costs related to the closure and relocation of Russian operations, (7) acquisition and related transaction costs and one-time integration costs, (8) lease amortization for finance leases, (9) provision for income taxes, and (10) other items that do not directly affect what we consider to be our core operating performance. The following table shows a reconciliation of net loss to adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Net loss $ (7,077) $ (27,248) Non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization (1) 12,183 11,347 Stock-based compensation (2) 44,684 50,743 Interest expense 2,567 1,845 Gain on early extinguishment of debt (6,615) Interest (income) and other (10,559) (4,121) Exit costs related to closure and relocation of Russian operations (3) 25 596 Acquisition and related transaction costs and one-time integration costs 932 1,455 Lease amortization for finance leases 457 Provision for income taxes 989 527 Adjusted EBITDA $ 37,586 $ 35,144 (1)Depreciation and amortization expenses included in our results of operations for the periods presented are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Cost of revenue $ 9,613 $ 8,907 Research and development 890 872 Sales and marketing 27 1 General and administrative 1,653 1,567 Total depreciation and amortization $ 12,183 $ 11,347 (2)See Note 7 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for stock-based compensation expense included in our results of operations for the periods presented. (3)Exit costs related to the closure and relocation of our Russian operations were $0.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. The $0.0 million adjustment presented above was net of $0.1 million included in Interest (income) and other. Exit costs related to the closure and relocation of our Russian operations were $0.7 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. The $0.6 million adjustment presented above was net of $0.1 million included in Interest (income) and other. 31 Table of Contents Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of subscription and related usage as well as professional services. We consider our subscription and related usage to be recurring revenue. This recurring revenue includes fixed subscription fees for the delivery and support of our VCC cloud platform, as well as related usage fees. The related usage fees are generally based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound client interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts for our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for reductions in the number of agent seats. Increases in the number of agent seats can be provisioned almost immediately. Our clients, therefore, are able to adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs. Our larger clients typically choose annual contracts, which generally include an implementation and ramp period of several months. Fixed subscription fees, including plans with bundled usage, are generally billed monthly in advance, while variable usage fees are billed in arrears. Fixed subscription fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the applicable term, which is predominantly the monthly contractual billing period. Support activities include technical assistance for our solution and upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis, which are not billed separately. Variable subscription related usage fees for non-bundled plans are billed in arrears based on client-specific per minute rate plans and are recognized as actual usage occurs. We generally require advance deposits from clients based on estimated usage. All fees, except usage deposits, are non-refundable. In addition, we generate professional services revenue from assisting clients in implementing our solution and optimizing use. These services include application configuration, system integration and education and training services. Professional services are primarily billed on a fixed-fee basis and are typically performed by us directly. In limited cases, our clients choose to perform these services themselves or engage their own third-party service providers to perform such services. Professional services are recognized as the services are performed using the proportional performance method, with performance measured based on labor hours, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. While the implications of macroeconomic events on our business, results of operations and overall financial position remain uncertain over the long term, we expect that adverse economic conditions will continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue in future periods. For example, our installed base business, which typically contributes approximately half of our annual revenue growth, continues to experience macroeconomic headwinds. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs, including stock-based compensation, fees that we pay to telecommunications providers for usage, Universal Service Fund, or USF, contributions and other regulatory costs, depreciation and related expenses of our servers and equipment, costs to build out and maintain co-location data centers, costs of public cloud-based data centers, allocated office and facility costs, amortization of acquired technology and amortization of internal-use software development costs. Cost of revenue can fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the fees we pay to telecommunications providers, which vary depending on our clients usage of our VCC cloud platform, the timing of capital expenditures and related depreciation charges and changes in headcount. We expect to continue investing in professional services, public cloud, cloud operations, client support and network infrastructure to maintain high quality and availability of services, which we believe will result in absolute dollar increases in cost of revenue but percentage of revenue declines in the long-term through economies of scale. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses as research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development. Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses, including stock-based compensation, for personnel related to the development of improvements and expanded features for our services, as well as quality assurance, testing, product management and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred except for internal use software development costs that qualify for capitalization. We believe that continued investment in our solution is important 32 Table of Contents for our future growth, and we expect our research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars and fluctuate as a percentage of revenue in the near and longer term. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses, including stock-based compensation, for personnel in sales and marketing, sales commissions, as well as advertising, marketing, corporate communications, travel costs and allocated overhead. We believe it is important to continue investing in sales and marketing to continue to generate revenue growth, and we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars and fluctuate as a percentage of revenue in the near and longer term as we continue to support our growth initiatives. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses, including stock-based compensation, for management, finance and accounting, legal, information systems and human resources personnel, professional fees, compliance costs, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue in the near term, but to increase in absolute dollars and decline as a percentage of revenue in the longer term. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 Based on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss set forth in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, the following table sets forth our operating results as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 46 % 48 % Gross profit 54 % 52 % Operating expenses: Research and development 17 % 17 % Sales and marketing 33 % 35 % General and administrative 12 % 13 % Total operating expenses 62 % 65 % Loss from operations (8) % (13) % Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (1) % (1) % Gain on early extinguishment of debt 3 % % Interest income and other 4 % 2 % Total other income (expense), net 6 % 1 % Loss before income taxes (2) % (12) % Provision for income taxes 1 % % Net loss (3) % (12) % Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $ 247,010 $ 218,439 $ 28,571 13 % The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily attributable to our larger clients, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing activities and our improved brand awareness. 33 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 114,530 $ 104,756 $ 9,774 9 % % of Revenue 46 % 48 % The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to a $5.4 million increase in depreciation, data center and public cloud costs to support our growing capacity needs, a $3.2 million increase in personnel costs driven mainly by increased headcount, higher salaries and increased stock-based compensation costs, a $0.4 million increase in third-party costs driven by increased client activities, a $0.4 million increase in office, facilities and related costs, and a $0.4 million increase in amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 132,480 $ 113,683 $ 18,797 17 % % of Revenue 54 % 52 % The increase in gross profit for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to increases in subscription and related revenues. The increase in gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to our revenue growing at a higher rate than our increase in cost of revenue as described above. We expect gross margin to continue to increase in the long term despite continued investments in professional services, public cloud, cloud operations, client support and network infrastructure, as we expect revenue growth in the long term to more than offset these increases. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 41,518 $ 38,108 $ 3,410 9 % % of Revenue 17% 17 % The increase in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to a $3.9 million increase in personnel-related costs driven mainly by an increase in stock-based compensation costs, increased headcount and higher salaries, and a $0.4 million increase in office, facilities and related costs, offset in part by a $2.0 million increase in research and development costs that qualified for capitalization. 34 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 81,109 $ 76,314 $ 4,795 6 % % of Revenue 33 % 35 % The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to a $4.2 million increase in amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs driven by the growth in sales and bookings of our solution, as well as expenses as we continued to execute our growth strategy to acquire new clients, increase the number of agent seats within our existing client base, and increase our brand awareness. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 30,548 $ 28,258 $ 2,290 8 % % of Revenue 12 % 13 % The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to a $2.6 million increase in personnel costs driven by increased stock-based compensation costs, increased headcount and higher salaries. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (2,567) $ (1,845) $ (722) 39 % Gain on early extinguishment of debt 6,615 6,615 100 % Interest income and other 10,559 4,121 6,438 156 % Total other income (expense), net $ 14,607 $ 2,276 $ 12,331 542 % % of Revenue 6 % 1 % The increase in interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes in March 2024. In connection with the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, we used part of the net proceeds from the issuance to repurchase approximately $313.1 million aggregate principal amount of our then outstanding 2025 convertible senior notes in privately-negotiated transactions for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $304.9 million. The repurchase transaction was accounted for as a debt extinguishment. The difference between the consideration used to extinguish the 2025 convertible senior notes and the carrying value of the 2025 convertible senior notes (including unamortized debt discount and issuance cost) resulted in an extinguishment gain of approximately $6.6 million. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. The increase in interest income and other for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023 was primarily due to higher interest income on our marketable investments due to higher investable balances and higher interest rates, and from an increase in foreign currency transaction gains. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our solution, net proceeds from our equity and debt financings, including the issuance of our 2029 convertible senior notes in March 2024, issuance of our 2025 convertible senior notes in May and June 2020 and of our 2023 convertible senior notes in May 2018, and lease facilities. As of March 31, 2024, we had $1,105.8 million in working capital, which included $240.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $843.2 million in marketable investments. Our intent is that all marketable investments are available for use in our current operations, including marketable investments with maturity dates greater than one year from March 31, 2024. In March 2024, we issued $747.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 2029 convertible senior notes in a private offering. The 2029 convertible senior notes mature of March 15, 2029 and are our senior unsecured obligations. The 2029 convertible senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2024. The total net proceeds from the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, after deducting initial purchaser' discounts and commissions and estimated debt issuance costs, were approximately $728.9 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, we used part of the net proceeds from the issuance to repurchase approximately $313.1 million aggregate principal amount of our then outstanding 2025 convertible senior notes in privately-negotiated transactions for aggregate cash consideration of approximately $304.9 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, we also entered into privately negotiated capped call transactions with certain financial institutions. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. We plan to continue to finance our operations in the future primarily through sales of our solution, net proceeds from equity and debt financings, and lease facilities. As previously disclosed, we are in discussions with one or more financial institutions, which may include the initial purchasers in our recent sale of 2029 convertible senior notes, regarding a potential revolving credit facility (the Revolving Credit Facility) of up to $200 million, which may be secured or unsecured. We expect to enter into the Revolving Credit Facility in the second half of 2024. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the Revolving Credit Facility on acceptable terms, or at all. Proceeds are expected to be available to us for general corporate purposes, including to fund working capital requirements and to fund all or a portion of the purchase price for potential acquisitions that we may identify in the future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, continuing market acceptance of our solution, the strength of the global economy, client retention, growth within our installed base, our ability to gain new clients, the timing and extent of spending to support research and development efforts, the outcome of any pending or future litigation or other claims by third parties or governmental entities, the expansion of sales and marketing activities and personnel, the introduction of new and enhanced offerings, expenses incurred in closing our Russia operations and expanding our operations in Portugal and any operational disruptions due to this transition, and the effect of the length and severity of the current economic downturn, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the conflict in Israel on these or other factors. We may also acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies and intellectual property rights, such as our recent acquisition of Aceyus in August 2023, which may increase our use of cash and future capital requirements, both to pay acquisition costs and to support our combined operations. We may raise additional capital through equity or debt financings at any time to fund these or other requirements. However, we may not be able to raise additional capital through equity or debt financings when needed on terms acceptable to us or at all, depending on our financial performance and condition, economic and market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, and other factors, including the length and severity of the current economic downturn and fluctuations in the financial markets, including due to the Russia-Ukraine conflict and the conflict in Israel. If we are unable to raise additional capital as needed, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, if our operating performance during the next twelve months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business also could be harmed. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders would be diluted. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of additional indebtedness, we will be subject to increased debt service obligations and could also be subject to restrictive covenants and other operating restrictions that could negatively impact our ability to operate our business. 36 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 March 31, 2023 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 32,353 $ 33,412 Net cash used in investing activities (266,823) (75,686) Net cash provided by financing activities 331,396 3,125 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 96,926 $ (39,149) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities is primarily influenced by our personnel-related expenditures, data center and telecommunications carrier costs, office and facility related costs, USF contributions and other regulatory costs and the amount and timing of client payments. If we continue to improve our financial results, we expect net cash provided by operating activities to increase. Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our clients for subscription and related usage services. Payments from clients for these services are typically received monthly. Net cash provided by operating activities was $32.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Net cash provided by operating activities resulted from our net loss of $7.1 million, adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operating activities of $66.3 million, primarily consisting of $44.7 million of stock-based compensation, $16.3 million of amortization of commission costs, $12.2 million of depreciation and amortization, $3.3 million of amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets and $1.1 million of amortization of issuance costs on our convertible senior notes, partially offset by use of cash for operating assets and liabilities of $(26.9) million primarily due to the timing of cash payments to vendors and cash receipts from customers. Net cash provided by operating activities was $33.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Net cash provided by operating activities resulted from our net loss of $27.2 million, adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operating activities of $77.3 million, primarily consisting of $50.7 million of stock-based compensation, $12.4 million of amortization of commission costs, $11.3 million of depreciation and amortization, $2.9 million of amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets and $0.9 million of amortization of issuance costs on our convertible senior notes, partially offset by use of cash for operating assets and liabilities of $(16.6) million primarily due to the timing of cash payments to vendors and cash receipts from customers. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $(266.8) million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was comprised of $524.9 million related to purchases of marketable investments, $12.0 million in capital expenditures and $3.2 million in capitalized software development costs, offset in part by $273.1 million related to cash proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable investments. Net cash used in investing activities of $(75.7) million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was comprised of $76.9 million related to cash proceeds from sales and maturities of marketable investments, offset in part by $140.9 million related to purchases of marketable investments, $9.9 million in capital expenditures and $1.8 million in capitalized software development costs. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $331.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was related to net cash proceeds of $728.9 million from the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, net of initial purchasers' discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs, $0.5 million cash received from the partial termination of capped calls associated with the 2025 convertible senior notes, and $0.4 million of cash proceeds from the exercise of stock options, offset in part by $304.5 million from the repurchase of a portion of the 2025 convertible senior notes, $93.4 million from the payment for capped call transactions associated with the 2029 convertible senior notes, and $0.5 million of payments related to finance leases. Net cash provided by financing activities of $3.1 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was related to cash proceeds of $3.1 million from the exercise of stock options. 37 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Contractual and Other Obligations Our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Convertible Senior Notes In May and June 2020, we issued $747.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 2025 convertible senior notes in a private offering. The 2025 convertible senior notes mature on June 1, 2025 and are our senior unsecured obligations. The 2025 convertible senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 0.50% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning December 1, 2020. The total net proceeds from the offering, after deducting initial purchasers discounts and commissions and estimated debt issuance costs, were approximately $728.8 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, we used part of the net proceeds from the issuance to repurchase approximately $313.1 million aggregate principal amount of our 2025 convertible senior notes. As of March 31, 2024, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2025 convertible senior notes was $434.4 million. In March 2024, we issued $747.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 2029 convertible senior notes in a private offering. The 2029 convertible senior notes mature of March 15, 2029 and are our senior unsecured obligations. The 2029 convertible senior notes bear interest at a fixed rate of 1.00% per annum, payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on September 15, 2024. The total net proceeds from the issuance of the 2029 convertible senior notes, after deducting initial purchasers' discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs, were approximately $728.9 million. As of March 31, 2024, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 2025 convertible senior notes was $747.5 million. See Note 6 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for further details. Leases We have leases for offices, data centers and computer and networking equipment that expire at various dates through 2031. Our leases have remaining terms of one to seven years. Some of the leases include an option to extend the leases for up to one to five years, and some of the leases include the option to terminate the leases upon 30-days' notice. We had outstanding operating lease obligations of $48.5 million as of March 31, 2024, with $8.8 million payable within 12 months, $16.5 million payable within one to three years, $11.5 million payable within three to five years, and $11.7 million after five years. We also had outstanding finance lease obligations of $4.5 million as of March 31, 2024, with $1.5 million payable within 12 months, and $3.0 million payable within one to three years. See Note 12 to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for further details. Cloud Services and Software and Maintenance As of March 31, 2024, we had outstanding cloud services and software and maintenance agreement commitments totaling $89.2 million, of which $14.3 million is expected to be purchased in 2024, $47.3 million is expected to be purchased in 2025, and the remaining $27.6 million is expected to be purchased in 2026. Hosting and Telecommunication Usage Services We have agreements with third parties to provide co-location hosting and telecommunication usage services. The agreements require payments per month for a fixed period of time in exchange for certain guarantees of network 38 Table of Contents and telecommunication availability. As of March 31, 2024, we had outstanding hosting and telecommunication usage services obligations of $13.6 million, with $5.5 million payable within 12 months, $6.1 million payable within one to three years, $2.0 million payable within three to five years. Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements of varying scope and terms pursuant to which we agree to indemnify clients, vendors, lessors, business partners and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us or from intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors, officers and certain employees that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers or employees. There are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or consolidated statements of cash flows. Contingencies Legal and Regulatory We are subject to certain legal and regulatory proceedings, and from time to time may be involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations, and proceedings relating to contractual disputes, intellectual property rights, employment matters, regulatory compliance matters, and other litigation matters relating to various claims that arise in the normal course of business. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. We assess our potential liability by analyzing specific litigation and regulatory matters using reasonably available information. We develop our views on estimated losses in consultation with inside and outside counsel, which involves a subjective analysis of potential results and outcomes, assuming various combinations of appropriate litigation and settlement strategies. Legal fees are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. See Note 10 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for more details. 39 Table of Contents