ITEM 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this report and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 17 Table of Contents Overview We are a pioneer and leading provider of cloud software for contact centers, facilitating approximately three billion interactions between our more than 2,000 clients and their customers per year. We believe we achieved this leadership position through our expertise and technology, which has empowered us to help organizations of all sizes transition from legacy on-premise contact center systems to our cloud solution. Our solution, which is comprised of our VCC cloud platform and applications, allows simultaneous management and optimization of customer interactions across voice, chat, email, web, social media and mobile channels, either directly or through our application programming interfaces ("APIs"). Our VCC cloud platform routes each customer interaction to an appropriate agent resource, and delivers relevant customer data to the agent in real-time to optimize the customer experience. Unlike legacy on-premise contact center systems, our solution requires minimal up-front investment and can be rapidly deployed and adjusted depending on our clients requirements. Since founding our business in 2001, we have focused exclusively on delivering cloud contact center software. We initially targeted smaller contact center opportunities with our telesales team and, over time, invested in expanding the breadth and depth of the functionality of our cloud platform to meet the evolving requirements of our clients. In 2009, we made a strategic decision to expand our market opportunity to include larger contact centers. This decision drove further investments in research and development and the establishment of our field sales team to meet the requirements of these larger contact centers. We believe this shift has helped us diversify our client base while significantly enhancing our opportunity for future revenue growth. To complement these efforts, we have also focused on building client awareness and driving adoption of our solution through marketing activities, which include internet advertising, digital marketing campaigns, social marketing, trade shows, industry events and telemarketing. We provide our solution through a SaaS business model with recurring subscriptions. We offer a comprehensive suite of applications delivered on our VCC cloud platform that are designed to enable our clients to manage and optimize interactions across inbound and outbound contact centers. We primarily generate revenue by selling subscriptions and related usage of our VCC cloud platform. We charge our clients monthly subscription fees for access to our solution, primarily based on the number of agent seats, as well as the specific functionalities and applications our clients deploy. We define agent seats as the maximum number of named agents allowed to concurrently access our solution. Our clients typically have more named agents than agent seats, and multiple named agents may use an agent seat, though not simultaneously. Substantially all of our clients purchase both subscriptions and related telephony usage from us. A small percentage of our clients subscribe to our platform but purchase telephony usage directly from wholesale telecommunications service providers. We do not sell telephony usage on a stand-alone basis to any client. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts to our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for changes in the number of agent seats. Our clients can use this notice period to rapidly adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs, including to reduce the number of agent seats to zero. As a general matter, this means that a client can effectively terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Our larger clients typically choose annual contracts, which generally include an implementation and ramp period of several months. Fixed subscription fees, including bundled plans, are generally billed monthly in advance, while related usage fees are billed in arrears. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, subscription and related usage fees accounted for 95% and 97% of our revenue, respectively. The remainder was comprised of professional services revenue from the implementation and optimization of our solution. Our revenue increased to $38.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 from $30.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2015 . Revenue growth has primarily been driven by our larger clients. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, no single client accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. As of March 31, 2016 , we had over 2,000 clients across multiple industries. Our clients' subscriptions generally range in size from fewer than 10 agent seats to approximately1,000 agent seats. We have continued to make significant expenditures and investments, including in sales and marketing, research and development and infrastructure. We primarily evaluate the success of our business based on revenue growth, adjusted EBIDTA and the efficiency and effectiveness of our investments. The growth of our business and our future success depend on many factors, including our ability to continue to expand our client base, particularly in larger opportunities, grow revenue from our existing client base, innovate and expand internationally. While these areas represent significant opportunities for us, they also pose risks and challenges that we must successfully address 18 Table of Contents in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. In order to pursue these opportunities, we anticipate that we will continue to expand our operations and headcount in the near term. Due to our continuing investments to grow our business, increase our sales and marketing efforts, pursue new opportunities, enhance our solution and build our technology, we expect our cost of revenue and operating expenses to increase in absolute dollars in future periods. However, we expect these expenses to decrease as a percentage of revenue as we grow our revenue and gain economies of scale by increasing our client base without direct incremental development costs and by utilizing more of the capacity of our data centers. Key Operating and Financial Performance Metrics In addition to measures of financial performance presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we monitor the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational efficiencies. Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate We believe that our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate provides insight into our ability to retain and grow revenue from our clients, and is a measure of the long-term value of our client relationships. Our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate is calculated by dividing our Retained Net Invoicing by our Retention Base Net Invoicing on a monthly basis, which we then average using the rates for the trailing twelve months for the period being presented. We define Retention Base Net Invoicing as recurring net invoicing from all clients in the comparable prior year period, and we define Retained Net Invoicing as recurring net invoicing from that same group of clients in the current period. We define recurring net invoicing as subscription and related usage revenue excluding the impact of service credits, reserves and deferrals. Historically, the difference between recurring net invoicing and our subscription and related usage revenue has been within 10%. The following table shows our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate for the periods presented: Twelve Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate 98% 95% The increase in our Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate from March 31, 2015 to March 31, 2016 was primarily due to our larger clients both increasing the number of agent seats and increasing the revenue per agent seat. We expect the Annual Dollar-Based Retention Rate to gradually increase over time, partly due to the higher mix of larger clients with higher retention rates. Adjusted EBITDA We monitor adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, to analyze our financial results and believe that it is useful to investors, as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures, in evaluating our ongoing operational performance and enhancing an overall understanding of our past financial performance. We believe that adjusted EBITDA helps illustrate underlying trends in our business that could otherwise be masked by the effect of the income or expenses that we exclude from adjusted EBITDA. Furthermore, we use this measure to establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business and evaluating our performance. We also believe that adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our recurring core business operating results over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and our calculation of adjusted EBITDA may differ from that of other companies in our industry. We compensate for the inherent limitations associated with using adjusted EBITDA through disclosure of these limitations, presentation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP and reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure, net loss. We calculate adjusted EBITDA as net loss before (1) depreciation and amortization, (2) stock-based compensation, (3) interest income, expense and other, (4) provision for income taxes, and (5) other unusual items that do not directly affect what we consider to be our core operating performance. 19 Table of Contents The following table shows a reconciliation from net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Net loss $ (4,911 ) $ (8,903 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Depreciation and amortization (1) 2,103 1,775 Stock-based compensation (2) 1,994 2,235 Interest expense 1,199 1,139 Interest income and other 45 (2 ) Provision for income taxes 28 18 Out of period adjustment for sales tax liability (3) 575 Adjusted EBITDA $ 458 $ (3,163 ) (1) Depreciation and amortization expenses included in our results of operations are as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Cost of revenue $ 1,680 $ 1,439 Research and development 148 87 Sales and marketing 53 49 General and administrative 222 200 Total depreciation and amortization $ 2,103 $ 1,775 (2) See Note 6 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements for stock-based compensation expense included in our results of operations for the periods presented. (3) Included in general and administrative expense. The 2015 amount represents an immaterial out of period adjustment for 2011 through 2014. See Note 9 of the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Key Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of subscription and related usage as well as professional services. We consider our subscription and related usage to be recurring revenue. This recurring revenue includes fixed subscription fees for the delivery and support of our VCC cloud platform, as well as related usage fees. The related usage fees are based on the volume of minutes for inbound and outbound client interactions. We also offer bundled plans, generally for smaller deployments, where the client is charged a single monthly fixed fee per agent seat that includes both subscription and unlimited usage in the contiguous 48 states and, in some cases, Canada. We offer monthly, annual and multiple-year contracts for our clients, generally with 30 days notice required for changes in the number of agent seats. Our clients can use this notice period to rapidly adjust the number of agent seats used to meet their changing contact center volume needs, including to reduce the number of agent seats to zero. As a general matter, this means that a client can effectively terminate its agreement with us upon 30 days notice. Fixed subscription fees, including plans with bundled usage, are generally billed monthly in advance, while variable usage fees are billed in arrears. Fixed subscription fees are recognized on a straight-line basis over the applicable term, predominantly the monthly contractual billing period. Support activities include technical assistance for our solution and upgrades and enhancements on a when and if available basis, which are not billed separately. Variable subscription related usage fees for non-bundled plans are billed in arrears based on client-specific per minute rate plans and are recognized as actual usage occurs. We generally require advance deposits from clients based on estimated usage. All fees, except usage deposits, are non-refundable. In addition, we generate professional services revenue from assisting clients in implementing our solution and optimizing its use. These services include application configuration, system integration and education and training 20 Table of Contents services. Professional services are primarily billed on a fixed-fee basis and are typically performed by us directly. In limited cases, our clients choose to perform these services themselves or engage their own third-party service providers to perform such services. Professional services are recognized as the services are performed using the proportional performance method, with performance measured based on labor hours, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs (including stock-based compensation), fees that we pay to telecommunications providers for usage, USF contributions and other regulatory costs, depreciation and related expenses of our servers and equipment, costs to build out and maintain co-location data centers, allocated office and facility costs and amortization of acquired technology. Cost of revenue can fluctuate based on a number of factors, including the fees we pay to telecommunications providers, which vary depending on our clients usage of our VCC cloud platform, the timing of capital expenditures and related depreciation charges and changes in headcount. We expect to continue investing in our network infrastructure and operations and client support function to maintain high quality and availability of service. As our business grows, we expect to continue to realize economies of scale in network infrastructure, personnel and client support. Operating Expenses We classify our operating expenses as research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Research and Development . Our research and development expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for personnel related to the development of improvements and expanded features for our services, as well as quality assurance, testing, product management and allocated overhead. We expense research and development expenses as they are incurred except for internal-use software development costs that qualify for capitalization. We believe that continued investment in our solution is important for our future growth, and we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars in the foreseeable future, although these expenses as a percentage of our revenue are expected to continue to decrease over time. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for employees in sales and marketing, sales commissions, as well as advertising, marketing, corporate communications, travel costs and allocated overhead. We expense the costs of sales commissions associated with the acquisition or renewal of client contracts as incurred in the period the contract is acquired or the renewal occurs. We believe it is important to continue investing in sales and marketing to continue to generate revenue growth. Accordingly, we expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to support our growth initiatives, although these expenses as a percentage of our revenue are expected to decrease over time. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salary and related expenses (including stock-based compensation) for management, finance and accounting, legal, information systems and human resources personnel, professional fees, compliance costs, other corporate expenses and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will fluctuate in absolute dollars from period to period but continue to decline as a percentage of revenue over time. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense associated with our debt and capital leases. We expect interest expense for our outstanding debt to decrease as we continue to reduce the outstanding principal balances. We expect interest expense for our capital leases to increase as a result of our continued capital spending funded by capital leases. Provision for Income Taxes Our provision for income taxes consists primarily of corporate income taxes resulting from profits generated in foreign jurisdictions by our wholly-owned subsidiaries, along with state income taxes payable in the United States. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Based on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss set forth in this quarterly report, the following table sets forth our operating results as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 44 % 49 % Gross profit 56 % 51 % Operating expenses: Research and development 15 % 20 % Sales and marketing 33 % 33 % General and administrative 18 % 24 % Total operating expenses 66 % 77 % Loss from operations (10 )% (26 )% Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (3 )% (4 )% Interest income and other % 1 % Total other income (expense), net (3 )% (3 )% Loss before income taxes (13 )% (29 )% Provision for income taxes % % Net loss (13 )% (29 )% Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue $38,015 $30,274 $7,741 26% The increase in revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily attributable to our larger clients, driven by an increase in our sales and marketing activities and our improved brand awareness. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, the majority of our revenue was from our larger clients. Our average recurring revenue per agent seat has been increasing slightly between these periods due mainly to increased sales of add on products. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $16,610 $14,778 $1,832 12% % of Revenue 44% 49% The increase in cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily due to a $1.0 million increase in cash-based personnel costs driven by increased headcount, a $0.5 million increase in third party hosted software costs due to increased client activities, a $0.4 million increase in USF contributions and other federal telecommunication service fees primarily due to increased client usage, and a $0.4 million increase in facility-related costs. The remainder of the increase was primarily due to our business 22 Table of Contents growth and system implementations. These increases were offset in part by a $1.0 million decrease in telecommunication carrier costs relating to our clients' long distance call usage due to improved usage efficiencies. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $21,405 $15,496 $5,909 38% % of Revenue 56% 51% The increase in gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily due to improved efficiencies in usage and professional services, and to continued benefit from economies of scale as our revenue increased. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $5,802 $6,038 $(236) (4)% % of Revenue 15% 20% The decrease in research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily due to a $0.3 million decrease in cash-based personnel-related costs resulting from decreased headcount. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $12,706 $9,931 $2,775 28% % of Revenue 33% 33% The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in cash-based personnel-related costs, a $0.7 million increase in commissions paid to sales personnel driven by the growth in sales and bookings of our solution, a $0.5 million increase in discretionary and other marketing-related expenses, and a $0.3 million increase in business travel and related expenses. These increases were primarily due to the execution of our growth strategy to acquire new clients, increase the number of agent seats within our existing client base and establish brand awareness. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $6,536 $7,275 $(739) (10)% % of Revenue 18% 24% 23 Table of Contents The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to the same period of 2015 was primarily due to a $0.6 million immaterial out of period adjustment recorded in the first quarter of 2015 for additional sales taxes for certain revenue earned during the period 2011 through 2014. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Interest expense $ (1,199 ) $ (1,139 ) $ (60 ) 5 % Interest income and other (45 ) 2 (47 ) (2,350 )% Total other income (expense), net $ (1,244 ) $ (1,137 ) $ (107 ) 9 % % of Revenue (3 )% (3 )% For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , other income (expense), net did not change significantly from the same period of 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of our solution, lease facilities and net proceeds from our equity and debt financings. As of March 31, 2016 , we had cash and cash equivalents totaling $57.8 million . We maintain a revolving line of credit of $20.0 million (Revolving Credit Facility) with a lender under our 2013 Loan and Security Agreement, which was entered into in March 2013 and last amended in December 2014 (see Note 5 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q). The Revolving Credit Facility carries a variable annual interest rate of the prime rate plus 0.50% and matures on December 1, 2016 . As of March 31, 2016 , we had borrowed $12.5 million under the Revolving Credit Facility and the amount available for additional borrowings was $7.5 million . In addition, as of March 31, 2016 , we also had $2.0 million in principal amount outstanding under a $5.0 million term loan that matures in March 2017 under the 2013 Loan and Security Agreement. The 2013 Loan and Security Agreement contains certain covenants, including the requirement that we maintain $7.5 million of cash deposited with the lender for the term of the agreement and includes the occurrence of a material adverse effect, as defined in the agreement and determined by the lender, as an event of default. As of March 31, 2016 , we were in compliance with these covenants. We intend to refinance the revolving credit facility with a new facility before the current one expires. As of March 31, 2016 , we also had $19.3 million in principal amount outstanding under a $20.0 million term loan under our 2014 Loan and Security Agreement, which was entered into in February 2014 and last amended in February 2015 (see Note 5 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q). The $20.0 million term loan bears interest at a variable per annum rate equal to the greater of 10% or LIBOR plus 9%. Interest is due and payable monthly during the term of the loan and commenced in February 2014. Monthly principal payments were due beginning in February 2016 based on 1/60th of the outstanding balance at that time and will continue until all remaining principal outstanding under the term loan becomes due and payable in February 2019. The 2014 Loan and Security Agreement contains certain covenants and includes the occurrence of a material adverse event, as defined in the agreement and determined by the lenders, as an event of default. As of March 31, 2016 , we were in compliance with these covenants. In addition, as of March 31, 2016 , we had a $1.5 million FCC civil penalty payable to the U.S. Treasury and $1.1 million outstanding principal amount under a promissory note with the USAC (see Note 5 of the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q). We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and the amount available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility (or any refinancing of the facility) will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs at least through March 31, 2017. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, continuing market acceptance of our solution, client retention, ability to gain new clients, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities and the introduction of new and enhanced offerings. We may also acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies and intellectual property rights, which may increase our future capital requirements, both to pay acquisition costs and to support our combined operations. We may raise additional equity or debt financing at 24 Table of Contents any time. We may not be able to raise additional equity or debt financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired or required, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, if our operating performance during the next twelve months is below our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business could be harmed. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, we will be subject to increased debt service obligations and could also be subject to restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, and other operating restrictions that could harm our ability to conduct our business. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 March 31, 2015 $ Change % Change Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 52 $ (5,753 ) $ 5,805 (101 )% Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (252 ) 462 (714 ) (155 )% Net cash used in financing activities (517 ) (2,352 ) 1,835 (78 )% Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (717 ) $ (7,643 ) $ 6,926 (91 )% Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by or used in operating activities is primarily influenced by our personnel-related expenditures, datacenters and telecommunications carriers costs, office and facility related costs, USF contributions and other regulatory costs and the amount and timing of client payments. If we continue to improve our financial results, we expect net cash provided by operating activities to increase. Our largest source of operating cash inflows is cash collections from our clients for subscription and related usage services. Payments from clients for these services are typically received monthly. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, our days-sales-outstanding were 27 and 24 days, respectively. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash provided by operating activities was $52 thousand as compared to net cash used by operating activities of $5.8 million for the same period of 2015. The improvement was primarily due to a $4.0 million decrease in net loss after adjusting for non-cash expenses and a $1.8 million favorable change in net cash flows resulting from changes in operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $1.9 million increase in accrued and other liabilities primarily for ESPP withholdings for employees for the purchase period that commenced in November 2015, additional employee paid-time-off liability due to timing of usage and sales commissions driven by the growth in sales and bookings of our solution, a $1.7 million increase in deferred revenue primarily attributable to increased billings, and a $0.8 million increase in accounts payable related to timing of liabilities and payments. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included primarily a $2.0 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales, and a $1.7 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily related to long-term maintenance contracts and annual subscription fees on third-party licensed technology and insurance policies. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included primarily a $1.6 million decrease in accounts payable related to timing of liabilities and payments, a $1.2 million increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily related to long-term maintenance contracts and annual subscription fees on third-party licensed technology and insurance policies, and a $0.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to increased sales. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $1.1 million increase in accrued and other liabilities primarily for ESPP withholdings for employees for the purchase period started in November 2014 and additional employee paid-time-off liability due to timing of usage, a $1.0 million increase in accrued federal fees and sales tax liability as a result of an immaterial $0.6 million out of period adjustment for additional sales tax liability recorded in the first quarter of 2015, as well as increased client usage, and a $0.3 million increase in deferred revenue primarily attributable to increased billings. 25 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2016 was for purchase of property and equipment. Net cash provided by investing activities in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was primarily from proceeds of $20.0 million from maturity of short-term investments and a $0.7 million decrease in restricted cash due to the release of a letter of credit issued to our landlord with respect to our office lease obligation, offset in part by purchase of short-term investments of $20.0 million and purchase of property and equipment of $0.2 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , cash used in financing activities of $0.5 million was primarily for repayments of $2.9 million on our capital lease and notes payable obligations, offset in part by cash received from stock option exercises of $2.4 million . During the three months ended March 31, 2015, cash used in financing activities of $2.4 million was primarily for repayments of $2.5 million on our capital lease and notes payable obligations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe our critical accounting policies involve the greatest degree of judgment and complexity and have the greatest potential impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015. During the three months ended March 31, 2016 , our critical accounting policies did not materially change. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement . The ASU provides guidance to customers about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. The ASU does not change the accounting for a customers accounting for service contracts. A company can elect to adopt the ASU either prospectively or retrospectively. We adopted this guidance prospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2016 and it did not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, Interest - Imputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs . The ASU requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by this ASU. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-15, InterestImputation of Interest (Subtopic 835-30): Presentation and Subsequent Measurement of Debt Issuance Costs Associated with Line-of-Credit Arrangements , which clarifies that the SEC staff would not object to an entity deferring and presenting debt issuance costs as an asset and subsequently amortizing the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings on the line-of-credit arrangement. We adopted this guidance retrospectively beginning in the first quarter of 2016 and the adoption did not have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements for the prior periods or the current period reported. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes . This ASU eliminates the requirement for companies to present deferred tax assets and liabilities as current and noncurrent on the balance sheet and, instead, requires companies to classify all deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent. As permitted by ASU 2015-17, we early-adopted this new guidance at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2015 and applied it prospectively . No prior periods were retrospectively adjusted. 26 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective In March 2016, the FASB Issued ASU No. 2016-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. This ASU simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholding requirements, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2017 with early application permitted. We are currently assessing the effect the guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) . Under the new guidance, a lessee will be required to recognize assets and liabilities for both finance, or capital, and operating leases with lease terms of more than 12 months. The ASU also will require disclosures to help investors and other financial statement users better understand the amount, timing, and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. Lessor accounting will remain largely unchanged from current GAAP. In transition, lessees and lessors are required to recognize and measure leases at the beginning of the earliest period presented using a modified retrospective approach that includes a number of optional practical expedients that entities may elect to apply. This guidance is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2019. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently assessing the effect the adoption of this standard will have on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40): Disclosure of Uncertainties about an Entitys Ability to Continue as a Going Concern . The new guidance requires management of public and private companies to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about the entitys ability to continue as a going concern and, if so, disclose that fact. Management will also be required to evaluate and disclose whether its plans alleviate that doubt. The standard will be effective for our annual period ending December 31, 2016 and interim and annual periods thereafter. Early adoption is permitted. We do not expect that the requirement will have an impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The ASU No. 2014-09 was originally scheduled to be effective for the Company's annual and interim reporting periods beginning January 1, 2017. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or the cumulative effect transition method. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-14, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date , which defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 for all entities by one year while providing an option to early adopt the standard on the original effective date. Accordingly, the new revenue standard is effective for our annual and interim reporting periods beginning January 1, 2018. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) , which is intended to improve the operability and understandability of the implementation guidance on principal versus agent considerations under the new revenue standard. In April 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-10, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing , which clarifies the following two aspects of Topic 606: (a) identifying performance obligations; and (b) licensing implementation guidance. We have not yet selected a transition method or determined the effect of these ASUs on our ongoing financial reporting. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016 , we did not have any off balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K, such as the use of unconsolidated subsidiaries, structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. Contractual Obligations Our principal contractual obligations consist of future payment obligations under debt, capital leases to finance data centers and other computer and networking equipment, operating leases for office space, research and development, and sales and marketing facilities, and agreements with third parties to provide co-location hosting, telecommunication usage and equipment maintenance services. These commitments as of December 31, 2015 are disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and did not change during the three months ended March 31, 2016 except for the acquisition of certain additional data center and network equipment and software under multiple capital leases. As of March 31, 2016 , total minimum future payment 27 Table of Contents commitments under these capital leases added during the three months ended March 31, 2016 were approximately $1.7 million , of which $0.5 million is due in 2016, with the remainder due over approximately 28 months .