Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the sections titled " Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our fiscal year end is December 31, and our fiscal quarters end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. Overview Flywire is a leading global payments enablement and software company. Our next-gen payments platform, proprietary global payment network and vertical-specific software help our clients get paid and help their customers pay with easeno matter where they are in the world. Our clients rely on us for integrated solutions that are both global and local, and combine tailored invoicing, flexible payment options, and highly personalized omni-channel experiences. We believe we make generational advances for our clients by transforming payments into a source of value and growth for their organizations while delighting their customers with payment experiences that are engaging, secure, fast, and transparent. Our Flywire Advantage is derived from three core elements: (i) our next-gen payments platform; (ii) our proprietary global payment network; and (iii) our vertical-specific software backed by our deep industry expertise. With our Flywire Advantage, we aim to power the transformation of our clients accounts receivable functions by automating paper and check-based business processes in addition to creating interactive, digital payment experiences for their customers. As a result, clients who implement our payments and software solutions can see increased digital payments and improved accounts receivable, higher enrollment in payment plans, and a reduction in customer support inquiries. We help our clients turn their accounts receivable functions into strategic, value-enhancing areas of their organizations. We reach clients through various channels, with our direct channel being our primary go-to-market strategy. Our industry-experienced sales and relationship management teams bring expertise and local reach, and our solution combines high-tech and high-touch functions backed by 24x7 multilingual customer support, resulting in high client and customer satisfaction. In addition, the value of our Flywire Advantage has been recognized, with global financial institutions and technology providers choosing to form channel partnerships with us. These partnerships promote organic referral and lead generation opportunities and enhance our indirect sales strategy. 25 The combination of our differentiated solution and efficient go-to-market strategy has resulted in strong and consistent client growth. Rapid domestic and international payments volume growth . We have grown our total payment volume by approximately 46.0% period-over-period from $2.9 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2021 to $4.2 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Expanded global payments network . W e have continued to add to the capabilities of our payment network by means of new local bank accounts and payment partners, and have expanded our global reach to over 240 countries and territories and more than 140 currencies. Enjoyable and personalized user experience . Our net promoter score (NPS) score of 64 in fiscal year 2020 demonstrates a strong affinity among our clients for our platform. Strong dollar-based net retention . For the year ended December 31, 2021, our annual net dollar-based retention rate was approximately 140%. We calculate the annual net dollar-based retention rate for a given year based on the weighted average of the quarterly net dollar-based retention rates for each quarter in that year. We calculate the quarterly net dollar-based retention rate for a given quarter by dividing the revenue we earned in that quarter by the revenue we earned from the same clients in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Our calculation of quarterly net dollar-based revenue rate for a given quarter only includes revenue from clients that were clients at the beginning of the corresponding quarter of the previous year. As of March 31, 2022, we serve over 2,700 clients around the world. In education, we serve more than 2,000 institutions and 2.0 million students globally. In healthcare, we power more th an 80 healthcare systems, incl uding four of the top 10 healthcare systems in the United States ranked by hospital size as of December 31, 2021. In our newer payment verticals of travel and business-to-business (B2B) payments, we have a growing portfolio of more tha n 420 clients a s of as of March 31, 2022. Our success in building our client base around the world and expanding utilization by our clients customers has allowed us to achieve significant scale. We enabled more tha n $13.2 billion and $4.2 billion in total payment volume during the year ended December 31, 2021 and three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively. W e generated revenue 26 of $201.1 million and $13 1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, and incurred net losses of $28.1 million and $ 11.1 million for those same years . We believe that the growth of our business and our operating results will be dependent upon many factors, including our ability to add new clients, expand the usage of our solutions by our existing clients and their customers, and increase the breadth and depth of our payments and software capabilities by adding new solutions. While these areas present significant opportunities for us, they also pose challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. While we have experienced significant growth and increased demand for our solutions over recent periods, we expect to continue to incur losses in the short term and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our marketing is focused on generating leads to develop our sales pipeline, building our brand and market awareness, scaling our network of partners and growing our business from our existing client base. We believe that these efforts will result in an increase in our client base, revenues, and improved margins in the long term. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology (IT) and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. Additionally, we face intense competition in our market, and to succeed, we need to innovate and offer solutions that are differentiated from legacy payment solutions. We must also effectively hire, retain, train, and motivate qualified personnel and senior management. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges, our business, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. Initial Public Offering On May 28, 2021, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 12,006,000 shares of common stock at a public offering price of $24.00 per share, which included 1,566,000 shares of common stock issued pursuant to the exercise in full of the underwriters' option to purchase additional shares. We received $263.8 million in net proceeds from the IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $19.4 million and other offering costs of $4.9 million. Recent Acquisition In December 2021, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of WPM for a purchase price of $59.6 million including $56.1 million of cash consideration, net of cash acquired and the estimated fair value of contingent consideration of $3.5 million. The contingent consideration is payable at various intervals through March 2024 in the form of up to approximately 225,000 shares of common stock and is dependent upon the Company's achievement of specified minimum payment volume targets and integration targets established for the years ending December 31, 2022 and 2023. WPM is a leading software provider that enables seamless and secure payment experiences for universities and colleges across the U.K. The acquisition of WPM is intended to build on our existing education payments business and is expected to further accelerate our market share in the U.K. education sector. WPM contributed $1.7 million in platform revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our Revenue Model We derive revenue from transactions and platform and usage-based fees. Transaction revenue is earned from payment processing services provided to our clients. The fee earned on each transaction consists of a rate applied to the total payment value of the transaction, which can vary based on the payment method currency pair conversion and the geographic region in which our client and the clients customer resides. We also earn revenue from marketing fees from credit card service providers for marketing arrangements in which we perform certain marketing activities which we consider to be ancillary to the solutions we provide to our clients. Platform and usage-based fee revenue includes (i) fees earned for the utilization of our payment platform to optimize cash collections, (ii) fees collected on payment plans established by our clients on our payment platform, (iii) subscription fees and (iv) fees related to printing and mailing services which we consider to be ancillary to the solutions we provide to our clients. 27 Key Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures The following table sets forth our key operating metrics and non-GAAP measures for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Total Payment Volume $ 4,173.7 $ 2,862.7 Revenue $ 64.6 $ 45.0 Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 59.3 $ 40.2 Gross Margin 60.1 % 61.3 % Adjusted Gross Margin 65.5 % 68.7 % Net Loss $ (10.1 ) $ (8.7 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 1.8 $ 7.0 For the three months ended March 31, 2022, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 75.4% and 24.6% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 81.5% and 18.5% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 72.0% and 28.0% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 79.9% and 20.1% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our total payment volume was approximately $4.2 billion, consisting of $2.5 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $1.7 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and usage-based fee revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, our total payment volume was approximately $2.9 billion, consisting of $1.7 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $1.2 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and usage-based fee revenue. Total Payment Volume To grow revenue from clients we must facilitate the use of our payment platform by our clients to process the amounts paid to them by their customers. The more our clients use our platform and rely upon our features to automate their payments, the more payment volume is processed on our solution. This metric provides an important indication of the value of the transactions that our clients customers are completing on our payment platform and is an indicator of our ability to generate revenue from our clients. We define total payment volume as the total amount paid to our clients on our payments platform in a given period. Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and better project our future consolidated financial performance as forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide our stakeholders with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented here. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. We use supplemental measures of our performance which are derived from our consolidated financial information, but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include the following: Revenue Less Ancillary Services - Revenue less ancillary services represents our consolidated revenue in accordance with GAAP less (i) pass-through cost for printing and mailing services and (ii) marketing fees we 28 receive. We exclude these amounts to arrive at this supplemental non-GAAP financial measure as we view these services as ancillary to the primary services we provide to our clients. Adjusted Gross Margin - Adjusted gross margin represents adjusted gross profit divided by Revenue Less Ancillary Services. Adjusted gross profit represents Revenue Less Ancillary Services less cost of revenue adjusted to (i) exclude pass-through cost for printing services and (ii) offset marketing fees against costs incurred. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross margin with a useful measure of the gross margin of our payment-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. Adjusted EBITDA - Adju sted EBITDA represents EBITDA further adjusted by excluding (i) stock-based compensation expense, (ii) the impact from the change in fair value measurement for contingent consideration associated with acquisitions, (iii) the impact from the change in fair value measurement of our preferred stock warrants prior to our IPO, (iv) other income (expense), net, (v) indirect taxes related to intercompany activity, (vi) acquisition related transaction costs, and (vii) employee retention costs, such as incentive compensation, associated with acquisition activities. Management believes that the exclusion of these amounts to calculate Adjusted EBITDA provides useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business. These non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for revenue, gross margin or net loss prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are presented below. We encourage you to review these reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The tables below provide reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA to the most comparable GAAP figure on a consolidated basis for the periods presented. Revenue Less Ancillary Services and Adjusted Gross Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 Revenue $ 64.6 $ 45.0 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.9 ) (4.5 ) Marketing fees (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 59.3 $ 40.2 Payment processing services costs 24.3 16.1 Hosting and amortization costs within technology and development expenses 1.5 1.3 Adjusted to: Exclude printing and mailing costs (4.9 ) (4.5 ) Offset marketing fees against related costs (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Costs of Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 20.5 $ 12.6 Gross Profit $ 38.8 $ 27.6 Gross Margin 60.1 % 61.3 % Adjusted Gross Profit $ 38.8 $ 27.6 Adjusted Gross Margin 65.5 % 68.7 % 29 (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and Usage-Based Fee Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue $ 48.7 $ 15.9 $ 64.6 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.9 ) (4.9 ) Marketing fees (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 48.3 $ 11.0 $ 59.3 Percentage of Revenue 75.4 % 24.6 % 100.0 % Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 81.5 % 18.5 % 100.0 % (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and Usage-Based Fee Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Revenue $ 32.4 $ 12.6 $ 45.0 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.5 ) (4.5 ) Marketing fees (0.3 ) (0.3 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 32.1 $ 8.1 $ 40.2 Percentage of Revenue 72.0 % 28.0 % 100 % Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 79.9 % 20.1 % 100 % EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31 (in millions) 2022 2021 Net loss $ (10.1 ) $ (8.7 ) Interest expense 0.2 0.6 Provision for income taxes 0.5 0.2 Depreciation and amortization 2.8 2.1 EBITDA (6.6 ) (5.8 ) Stock-based compensation expense 5.5 10.4 Change in fair value of contingent consideration (0.1 ) Change in fair value of preferred stock liability, prior to IPO 1.0 Other expense, net (1) 2.3 0.4 Indirect taxes related to intercompany activity 0.1 Acquisition related employee retention costs (2) 0.6 1.0 Adjusted EBITDA $ 1.8 $ 7.0 (1) For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, other expense consisted of losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions into our functional currency of $2.3 million and $0.4 million, respectively. (2) Acquisition related employee retention costs consisted of costs incurred to retain and compensate Simplee's and WPMs employees in connection with integration of the business. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Increased Utilization by Our Clients and Their Customers Our ability to monetize our payments platform and global payment network is an important part of our business model. Today, we charge a fee based on the total payment volume we process on behalf of our clients. Our revenue and payment volume increases as our clients process more transactions on our payment platform and more money is collected through our global payment network. Increased average size of the payments processed on our payment platform also increases our revenue. Our ability to influence clients to process more transactions on our platform will have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition, sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new clients and further adoption of use cases such as payment plans, by our clients customers. Our ability to influence our clients to expand their customers 30 usage of our platform also depends on our ability to successfully introduce new solutions, such as our solutions to support payments by international education consultants and our B2B solutions. Mix of Business on Our Platform Our revenue is affected by several factors, including the amount of payment volume processed by us on behalf of our clients, the industry in which our clients operate, the currency in which payments are made and received, the method of payment and the number of payment plans initiated by our clients customers. For example, we recognize more transaction revenue as our clients engage in cross border payment flows which may increase or decrease depending on the industry in which our clients operate. We may experience shifts in the type of revenue we earn (transaction revenue or platform and usage-based fee revenue) depending on the nature of the activity of our clients and our clients customers on our platform. Investment in Technology and Development and Sales and Marketing We make significant investments in both new solutions and existing solution enhancement. New solution features and functionality are brought to market through a variety of distribution and promotional activities. We will continue to adopt emerging technologies, expand our library of software integrations and invest in the development of more features. While we expect our expenses related to technology and development to increase, we believe these investments will contribute to long-term growth and profitability. Additionally, we will continue to expand efforts to market our payment platform and global payment network directly to our clients through comprehensive marketing initiatives. We are focused on the effectiveness of sales and marketing spending and will continue to be strategic in maintaining efficient client acquisition in the next quarters, including adjusting spending levels as needed in response to changes in the economic environment. Seasonality Our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue, which can vary by geographic corridor. For instance, our revenue has historically been strongest in our first and third quarters and weakest in our second quarter. Some variability results from seasonal events including the timing of when our education clients customers make their tuition payments on our payment platform and the number of business days in a month or quarter. We also experience volatility in certain other metrics, such as transactions processed and total payment volume. We expect our mix to shift to bank transfers throughout the year. Economic Conditions and Resulting Consumer Spending Trends Changes in macro-level consumer spending for education, healthcare and travel trends, including as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, could affect the amounts of volumes processed on our platform, thus resulting in fluctuations to our revenue streams. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic The unprecedented and rapid spread of COVID-19 in 2020 as well as the shelter-in-place orders, promotion of social distancing measures, restrictions to businesses deemed non-essential, and travel restrictions implemented throughout the United States and globally have significantly impacted the verticals in which we have been predominantly focused over the last decade, including payment volumes, sales cycles and time to implementation in those verticals. However, we have not experienced any significant client attrition and our quarterly and annual net dollar-based retention rate remained strong. For the year ended December 31, 2021, our annual net dollar-based retention rate was approximately 140%. For the year ended December 31, 2020, despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our clients and the industries we serve, our annual net dollar-based retention rate was approximately 100%. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we added an additional 300 clients and have observed a recovery in payment volumes and growth in clients. As a result of the payment volume growth, client growth and public company complexities, we have increased hiring. Borders are continuing to open allowing for an increase in international students to attend education clients. We expect this trend to continue throughout the year for our education clients. Additionally, the opening of borders and abatement of COVID-19 restrictions is increasing travel abroad and we expect travel to continue to return to pre-pandemic levels. As variants (most notably Delta and Omicron) or sub-variants of COVID-19 emerge, we will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of these potential impacts to our business, consolidated financial statements, and liquidity. 31 On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was signed into law. The CARES Act did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021. We continue to monitor any effects that may result from the CARES Act or other government relief programs that are made available. Impact of the Conflict between Russia and Ukraine We do not have any operations, including long-lived assets, in Ukraine or Russia, and to our knowledge, our clients do not receive material amounts of payments from payers in these regions. We are actively monitoring the situation in Ukraine and assessing its impact on our business, but to date have not experienced any material impact. However, we have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the conflict or its impacts in Ukraine, Russia or Belarus as the conflict, and any resulting government reactions, are rapidly developing and beyond our control. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions could be significant and could potentially have a substantial impact on the global economy and our business for an unknown period of time. Ukraine is a major engineering hub and the conflict may create a global challenge in outsourcing or hiring engineering talent. In addition, we have put in place and continue to actively manage a program to comply with government sanctions imposed on Russian persons and financial institutions. Also, providers of payment and accounts receivable software have frequently been targeted by cyber threats and due to the war in the Ukraine and continued political uncertainty involving Russia and Ukraine and potentially other regions of Europe, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cyber-attacks that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. We continue to invest in systems, software and personnel to protect against these enhanced threats, but any failure to protect against such attacks, could result in unauthorized access to or leakage of, sensitive data, or compromise our ability to provide our solutions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business or delay our financial reporting. Such failures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Diversified Mix of Clients We have a wide range of clients across education, healthcare, travel and B2B. Following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a temporary deceleration of payment volumes and revenue from education clients relying on international enrollments due to the uncertainty of borders re-opening. During 2021 and the first quarter of 2022 borders continued to open allowing for an increase in international students to attend education clients. We expect this trend to continue throughout the year for our education clients. Additionally, the opening of borders and abatement of COVID-19 restrictions is increasing travel abroad and we expect travel to continue to return to pre-pandemic levels. Dynamic Changes to Client Communication and Product Solutions In response to the macroeconomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we initiated a series of refinements to our technology and personalization engine to optimize our clients ability to offer payment plans and communicate effectively and digitally with their customers. For example, we developed streamlined versions of our solution that allowed healthcare clients to rapidly deploy secure payment capabilities in support of newly emergent telehealth services that were deployed in the early phases of the COVID-19 to enable remote healthcare services. Similarly, we configured some of our education payment plan solutions for a very streamlined implementation in support of our clients requests for affordability solutions for their students that could be deployed with minimal IT involvement. While we continue to invest in our technology and product capabilities, our ability to continue providing streamlined and effective products through our technology platform may impact our ability to retain and win new clients in the future. We believe that our ability to help increase payment affordability has become more critical to our clients during the COVID-19 pandemic as the lack of affordability drives the need for more financial flexibility. Business Continuity In response to COVID-19 developments, we implemented measures to focus on the safety of our employees and support of our clients, while at the same time seeking to mitigate the impact on our financial position and operations. We have implemented remote working capabilities for our entire organization and to date, there has been minimal disruption to our operations. During the spring of 2020, due to initial COVID-19 uncertainty, we reduced our workforce by approximately 12%. From July 2020 through March 31, 2022, our workforce increased by approximately 71% in order to meet the demand of clients and life as a public company. As vaccination rates have increased, our offices have reopened in limited capacity. We have also increased our hiring plan to address key roles with the goal of ensuring continuity and growth. 32 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from transactions and platform and usage-based fees as described below. Transaction Revenue Transaction revenue consists of a fee based on the total payment volume processed through our payment platform and global payment network. The fee can vary depending on the geographic region in which our client and clients customer resides, the payment method selected by our clients customer and the currencies in which the transaction is completed on our solution. Fees received are reported as revenue upon the completion of payment processing transaction. Our revenue mix fluctuates and as more revenue is derived from credit cards our adjusted gross margin goes down. We also earn marketing fees from credit card service providers for marketing arrangements in which we perform certain marketing activities to increase the awareness of the credit card provider and promote certain methods of payments on our payment platform. Fees from these marketing services are recognized as revenue when we complete our obligations under the marketing arrangements. We do not expect our marketing services revenue to be material in future periods. Platform and Usage-Based Fee Revenue We earn revenue from many of our clients based on the amount of accounts receivable they collect through our platform. For these services, we are paid a platform and usage-based fee based on the total payment volume that our clients collect. We also earn revenue from clients customers when they enter into a payment plan and make actual payments against a payment plan in satisfying their obligation to our client. Additionally, we earn a subscription fee from some of our clients for their use of our payment platform. Finally, we earn fees from providing other ancillary services to our clients including printing and mailing services. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs consist of costs incurred to process payment transactions which include banking and credit card processing fees, foreign currency translation costs, partner fees, personnel-related expenses for our employees who facilitate these payments and personnel related expenses for our employees who provide implementation services to our clients. We expect that payment processing services costs will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period, as we continue to invest in scaling our processing operations and grow our revenue base. Technology and Development Technology and development includes (a) costs incurred in connection with the development of our solution and the improvement of existing solutions, including the amortization of software and website development costs incurred in developing our solution, which are capitalized, and acquired developed technology, (b) site operations and other infrastructure costs incurred, (c) amortization related to capitalized cost to fulfill a contract, (d) personnel-related expenses, including salaries, stock based compensation and other expenses, (e) hardware and software engineering, consultant services and other costs associated with our technology platform and products, (f) research materials and facilities, and (g) depreciation and maintenance expense. We believe delivering new functionality is critical to attract new clients and expand our relationship with existing clients. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our solutions in order to enhance our clients experience and satisfaction, and to attract new clients. We expect our technology and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but they may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period as we expand our technology and development team to develop new solutions and enhancements to existing solutions. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, sales commissions, amortization of acquired client relationship intangible assets, marketing program expenses, travel-related expenses and costs to market and promote our solutions through advertisements, marketing events, partnership arrangements, and direct client acquisition. 33 We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our Company, platform, and solutions, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing efforts by driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events; however, we will adjust our sales and marketing spend level as needed, and this may fluctuate from period to period, in response to changes in the economic environment. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, for finance, risk management, legal and compliance, human resources and IT functions, costs incurred for external professional services, as well as rent, and facility and insurance costs. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as we continue to invest in our planned growth of our business. We also expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth in the business, and to operate as a public company. As a result, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest previously incurred on our LSA and interest on a new Revolving Credit Facility. During 2018, we borrowed $25.0 million under the LSA to complete the acquisition of OnPlan Holdings LLC. On April 25, 2020, we entered into a Joinder and Second Amendment to the LSA to refinance the LSA. As part of the refinancing, the lender re-advanced $4.2 million of principal paid on the loan through May 1, 2020. The LSA was interest only until May 2023 and carried annual interest at a rate equal to the greater of (i) 5.25% above the prime rate or (ii) 8.50%. In July 2021, we refinanced the LSA by entering into a $50.0 million Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility has an adjustable rate of interest based on the type of loan requested, either at an annual rate based on the Alternate Base Rate (ABR), which references the prime rate plus an applicable margin or LIBOR plus an applicable margin. Loans based on ABR bear interest at a rate between ABR plus 0.75% and ABR plus 1.25%, and loans based on LIBOR bear interest at a rate between LIBOR plus 1.75% and LIBOR plus 2.25%, depending on our liquidity. Change in Fair Value of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability In connection with our financing arrangements, we issued warrants to purchase convertible preferred stock to a lender. The warrants to purchase preferred stock provided for net share settlement under which the maximum number of shares that could be issued represented the total amount of shares under the warrant agreements. These warrants were classified as liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets as these were free standing instruments that may have required us to transfer an asset upon exercise. The warrant liability associated with these warrants was recorded at fair value on the issuance date of the warrants and was marked to market each reporting period based on changes in the warrants fair value calculated using the Black-Scholes model. Following our IPO, all preferred stock warrants were either fully exercised or converted to warrants to purchase common stock and no longer require liability classification. As a result, we no longer recognize the change in fair value of preferred stock warrant liability in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists of interest income and gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions into its functional currency. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of foreign and state income taxes. We have historically generated net operating losses (NOL) carryforwards for U.S. Federal and state tax purposes as we expand the scale of our international business activities. We are currently anticipating generating U.S. taxable income in 2022 primarily due to capitalizing a large portion of our research costs. Any additional changes in the U.S. and foreign taxation of such activities may increase our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance for our U.S. deferred tax assets, including federal and state NOLs. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized through expected future taxable income generated in the United States. 34 Results of Operations Comparison of results for the Three Months Ended March, 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 64.6 $ 45.0 $ 19.6 43.6 % Payment processing services costs 24.3 16.1 8.2 50.9 % Technology and development 11.0 7.5 3.5 46.7 % Selling and marketing 17.6 12.0 5.6 46.7 % General and administrative 18.8 15.9 2.9 18.2 % Total costs and operating expense 71.7 51.5 20.2 39.2 % Loss from operations (7.1 ) (6.5 ) (0.6 ) 9.2 % Interest expense (0.2 ) (0.6 ) 0.4 (66.7 )% Change in fair value of preferred stock warrant liability (1.0 ) 1.0 (100.0 )% Other expense, net (2.3 ) (0.4 ) (1.9 ) 475.0 % Total other expenses, net (2.5 ) (2.0 ) (0.5 ) 25.0 % Loss before income taxes (9.6 ) (8.5 ) (1.1 ) 12.9 % Provision for income taxes 0.5 0.2 0.3 150.0 % Net loss (10.1 ) (8.7 ) (1.4 ) 16.1 % Foreign currency translation adjustment (0.1 ) 0.4 (0.5 ) (125.0 )% Comprehensive loss $ (10.2 ) $ (8.3 ) $ (1.9 ) 22.9 % Revenue Revenue was $64.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $45.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $19.6 million or 43.6%. Revenue is comprised of transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Transaction revenue $ 48.7 $ 32.4 $ 16.3 50.3 % Platform and usage-based fee revenue 15.9 12.6 3.3 26.2 % Revenue $ 64.6 $ 45.0 $ 19.6 43.6 % Transaction revenue was $48.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $32.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $16.3 million or 50.3%. The increase in transaction revenue was primarily driven by growth in transaction payment volumes, from both our existing clients and new clients added during the three months ended March 31, 2022. We experienced strong growth in payment volume across all regions and verticals during the period. Total payment volume increased 46.0% during the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $4.2 billion. Our marketing services revenue increased as a result of our payment partners using more of our marketing services in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. Platform and usage-based fee revenue was $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $12.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $3.3 million or 26.2%. The increase in platform and usage-based fee revenue was driven primarily by the WPM acquisition, which accounted for a $1.7 million increase over the same period in 2021. The remainder of the increase was attributable to increased usage by our clients and new clients signed during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs were $24.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $16.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $8.2 million or 50.9%. The increase in payment processing services costs is correlated with the increase in total payment volume of 46.0% over the same period. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses were $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $3.5 million or 46.7%. The increase in technology and development cost was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, amortization expense, software 35 and hosting expenses and travel related expenses, which was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation expense. Personnel costs were $6.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $2.9 million or 76.3%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount within our technology and development teams. Amortization of intangible assets was $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.4 million or 36.4%. The increase in amortization expense was the result of the acquisition of Simplee. Software and hosting expenses were $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.2 million or 22.2%. The increase in software and hosting expenses was primarily related to increased hosting fees based on payment volumes growth and additional software needs based on headcount growth. Travel expenses were $0.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.1 million. The increase in travel expenses was due to the lifting of COVID-19 related travel restrictions. Stock-based compensation expense was $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $0.2 million or 18.2%. The decrease in stock-based compensation was due to a secondary sale that involved stockholders who were also our employees in the first quarter of 2021 and no such sale occurring in the first quarter of 2022. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $17.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $12.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $5.6 million or 46.7%. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, marketing costs, travel related expenses, professional fees, and amortization expenses, which was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation. Personnel costs were $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $4.2 million or 65.6%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount within our selling and marketing teams and commissions earned on sales during the period. Marketing costs were $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.9 million or 150.0%. The increase in marketing costs was due to increased marketing initiatives and hosted events, including marketing activities associated with WPM. Travel expenses were $0.5 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.5 million. The increase in travel expenses was due to the lifting of COVID-19 related travel restrictions. Professional fees were $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.4 million or 44.4%. The increase in professional fees was due to increases in third party commissions and consulting fees. Amortization of intangibles was $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.4 million or 66.7%. The increase in amortization expense was due to acquired customer relationships related to the WPM acquisition. Stock-based compensation was $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $2.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $1.4 million or 53.8%. The decrease in stock-based compensation was due to a secondary sale that involved stockholders who were also our employees in the first quarter of 2021 and no such sale occurring in the first quarter of 2022. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses were $18.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $2.9 million or 18.2%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, professional fees, general and administrative, software and hosting expenses, other costs, and travel related expenses, which was partially offset by a decrease in stock-based compensation and acquisition related expenses. Personnel costs were $7.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $5.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $2.3 million or 45.1%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily due to increased headcount. Professional fees were $2.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1.5 million or 115.4%. The increase in professional fees was due to increased legal and audit fees as a result of becoming a public company. General and administrative costs were $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1.2 million. The increase in general and administrative costs was primarily due to increased insurance costs as a public company. Software and hosting expenses were $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.5 million or 62.5%. The increase in software and hosting expenses was primarily related to increased hosting fees based on payment volumes growth and additional software needs based on headcount growth. Other costs were $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.5 million. The increase in other costs was primarily due to indirect taxes recorded during the period and increased hedging fees related to increase in total payment volume. Travel related expenses were $0.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0 for the 36 three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.3 million. The increase in travel expenses was due to the lifting of COVID-19 related travel restrictions. Stock-based compensation was $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $6.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $3.5 million or 53.0%. The decrease in stock-based compensation was due to a secondary sale that involved stockholders who were also our employees in the first quarter of 2021 and no such sale occurring in the first quarter of 2022. Interest Expense Interest expense was $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $ 0.4 million or 66.7%. During July 2021, we entered into a Revolving Credit Facility with three banks for a total commitment of $50.0 million. We drew $25.9 million on the Revolving Credit Facility and used the proceeds to early prepay our existing LSA of $25.0 million, which resulted in a new interest rate per year. Change in Fair Value of Preferred Stock Warrant Liability The fair value of preferred stock warrant liability was $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $1.0 million or 100.0%. Upon the completion of our IPO, all preferred stock warrants were either fully exercised or converted to warrants to purchase common stock. As a result, we no longer recognize the change in fair value of preferred stock warrant liability in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Other Expense, net Other expense, net, was $2.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $1.9 million. The increase was primarily the result of changes in the British pound sterling exchange rate against the U.S. Dollar, our financial reporting currency. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $0.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to a provision for income taxes of $0.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021, an increase of $0.3 million or 150.0%. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to profits generated in our foreign subsidiaries. The income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to foreign taxes. Our effective tax rate was (5.1)% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to (2.4)% for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from sales of equity securities, credit facilities and payments received from our clients as further detailed below. In May 2021, we completed our IPO which resulted in aggregate net proceeds of $263.8 million, after underwriting discounts of $19.4 million and issuance costs of $4.9 million. As of March 31, 2022, our principal source of liquidity is cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $369.7 million. We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to support our expected working capital needs and material cash requirements for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from clients, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase public cloud capacity, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations consist of outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility and operating leases that relate to real estate for our primary facilities. 37 The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022: Payments Due by Year (in thousands) Total Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 3,500 $ 1,337 $ 2,132 $ 31 Debt obligations 25,939 25,939 Total $ 29,439 $ 1,337 $ 28,071 $ 31 The following table sets forth summary cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (17.0 ) $ (14.8 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1.3 ) (1.5 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3.0 ) 58.2 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.7 0.3 Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash. $ (19.6 ) $ 42.2 Operating Activities Net cash used in o perating activities consists of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in other assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities of $17.0 million was primarily the result of net loss of $10.1 million adjusted for non-cash expenses of $8.4 million, which primarily include stock-based compensation expenses of $5.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.1 million and amortization of deferred contract costs of $0.1 million, offset by $15.2 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in operating activities of $14.8 million was primarily the result of net loss of $8.7 million adjusted for non-cash expenses of $13.8 million, which primarily include stock-based compensation expenses of $10.4 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.1 million, and the change in fair value of preferred stock warrant liability of $1.0 million, offset by $19.9 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities of $1.3 million was the result of the capitalization of internally developed software. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash used in investing activities of $1.5 million was primarily the result of the capitalization of internally-developed software costs. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in financing activities of $3.0 million was the result of payments for contingent consideration of $3.3 million related to our acquisition of Simplee, payments of tax withholdings for net settled option exercises of $0.8 million, offset by $1.1 million proceeds from the exercise of stock options, net of payments of tax withholdings. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, cash provided by financing activities of $58.2 million was the result of our sale of preferred stock for aggregate proceeds of $59.7 million and proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $2.4 million, partially offset by payments for contingent consideration of $3.8 million related to our acquisition of Simplee and $0.2 million related to offering costs associated with our IPO. As of March 31, 2022, we had $25.9 million of outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility. The proceeds of the Revolving Credit Facility were used to pay off the existing loan of $25.0 million. The Revolving Credit Facility consists of ABR loans or Eurodollar Borrowings, at our option. ABR loans bear interest at the ABR plus the applicable rate. Eurodollar Borrowings bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus the applicable rate. The ABR rate is based on the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one-month Interest Period plus 1%. The adjusted LIBO rate is based on (a) the LIBO Rate multiplied by 38 (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. The applicable rate is based upon our liquidity as of the most recent consolidated financial information and ranges from 0.75% to 2.25%. The Revolving Credit Facility incurs a commitment fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.35% based upon our liquidity as of the most recent consolidated financial information assessed on the average undrawn portion of the available commitment. We have access to an additional $24.1 million of additional funds under the Revolving Credit Facility to draw in the future. As of March 31, 2021, we had $25.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the LSA. The LSA was interest only until May 2023 and bore annual interest at a rate equal to the greater of (i) 5.25% above the prime rate of (ii) 8.50%. Refer to Note 10 - Debt for additional details related to the LSA. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount s of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated, and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Our critical accounting policies a nd estimates are described in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Effective January 1, 2022, we changed our accounting policy for leases resulting from the adoption of ASC 842, Leases and subsequent related ASUs . There were no other material changes to policies during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Leases On January 1, 2022, we adopted ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) and subsequent related ASUs using January 1, 2022 as the date of initial application. The new lease standard sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases for both parties to a contract (i.e., lessees and lessors). We elected the modified retrospective transition option which allows for application of Topic 842 at the adoption date. Therefore, comparative prior period financial informatio n was not adjusted and will continue to be reported under the previous accounting guidance of ASC 840, Leases . No cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening accumulated deficit balance as of January 1, 2022 was necessary as a result of adopting the new standard. We elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance which allowed us to not to reassess (i) whether any expired or existing contracts are, or contain, leases, (ii) the lease classification for any expired or existing leases and (iii) initial direct costs for any existing leases. We elected the practical expedient not to separate lease and non-lease components. We also elected the short-term lease recognition exemption and will not recognize ROU assets or lease liabilities for leases with a term less than 12 months. As a result of the adoption, we recognized ROU assets of $3.0 million in Other assets and a corresponding lease liability of $3.6 million in Other liabilities as of January 1, 2022. The ROU assets were adjusted per Topic 842 transition guidance for the existing deferred rent balance. Refer to Note 1 - Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for details on accounting for leases after the adoption of ASC 842. Emerging Growth Company Status The JOBS Act permits an emerging growth company such as us to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards applicable to public companies until those standards would otherwise apply to nonpublic companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, we will not be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, and our financial statements may not be comparable to other public companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. We may choose to early adopt any new or revised accounting standards whenever such early adoption is permitted for nonpublic companies. 39 We will cease to be an emerging growth company on the date that is the earliest of (i) the last day of the fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenues of $1.07 billion or more, (ii) December 31, 2026, (iii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in nonconvertible debt during the previous three years or (iv) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. See Risk Factors - Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock - We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We have reviewed all recently issued standards and have determined that, other than as disclosed in Note 1 - Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, such standards are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or do not otherwise apply to our operations. Ite m 3.