Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of or that we deem immaterial may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, liquidity, operating results, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. See Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Risk Factors Summary The summary of risks below is intended to provide an overview of the risks we face and should not be considered a substitute for the more fulsome risk factors discussed immediately following this summary. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a short operating history at our current scale in a rapidly evolving industry. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in operating results. We may be unable to retain our current clients, attract new clients, and increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions or sell additional functionality to our clients. Our operational and business portfolio reviews may not result in improvements to our financial performance, strategy, or operations. We may be unable to expand our direct and channel sales capabilities, grow our marketing reach and increase sales productivity. We expect our revenue mix to vary over time, which could affect our gross profit, gross margin and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients and their customers are not satisfied with the timing or quality of implementation services provided by us or our partners, or our ability to meet service levels to allow for timely payment processing due to system downtime or other factors. Our financial and operating results are subject to seasonality and cyclicality. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations. Certain of our key performance indicators are subject to inherent challenges in measurement. Our business depends, in large part, on our proprietary network of global, regional, and local banking partners and our relationships with other third parties. Our markets are highly competitive. The estimates of market opportunity and our ability to capture a meaningful share of this payment volume may prove to be inaccurate. Our education business may be adversely affected by decreases in enrollment or tuition, limitations or other restrictions on student visas to international students or increased operating expenses for our clients. 28 The healthcare industry is rapidly evolving. Our travel business may be sensitive to events affecting the travel industry in general. We may be unable to enter or expand into new verticals or sub-verticals, including our B2B vertical. There could be consolidation in the payment processing or enablement industry. We may be adversely impacted by worldwide global economic and political instability. Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our growing client base. We enable the transfer of large sums of funds to our clients daily and are subject to the risk of errors. Volatility in the banking and financial services sectors may impact our bank partnerships and relationships, which could adversely affect our operations and liquidity. Our management of our operating funds and those of our clients may be reliant on a limited number of our banking partners and other financial institutions. We may be unable to maintain or expand our ability to offer a variety of local and international payments. Improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to personal or sensitive data could harm our reputation. We may fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, and changing business needs, requirements, or preferences. Changes to payment card networks fees or rules could harm our business. If we lose key members of our management team or are unable to attract and retain executives and employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business may be harmed. Risks Related to Our Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Landscape Payments and other financial services-related regulations and oversight are material to our business. We are subject to governmental laws and requirements regarding economic and trade sanctions, AML, CFT and those applicable to a MSB. We are subject to governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly those related to privacy, data protection, information security, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and similar laws. Risks Related to Being a Public Company We may fail to continue to maintain proper effective internal control over financial reporting. Estimates relating to our critical accounting policies may prove to be incorrect. We will continue to incur increased costs as a public company. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our existing stockholders, restrict our operations, or require us to relinquish rights to our intellectual property on unfavorable terms. Our repurchase program may not achieve our goals or meet expectations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry 29 We have a history of operating losses and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We were incorporated in 2009 and although we have generated net income for the year ended December 31, 2024, we have incurred net losses in the past, and may continue to incur net losses in the future. We generated net income of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, and net losses of $8.6 million and $39.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. In addition, as of December 31, 2024, we had an accumulated deficit of $170.9 million. We have experienced significant revenue growth in recent periods and we are not certain whether or when we will obtain a high enough volume of revenue to sustain or increase our growth or achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs and expenses to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase. In particular, we intend to continue to strategically invest in headcount, to further develop our solutions, including introducing new functionality, and to expand our marketing programs and sales teams to drive new client adoption, expand strategic partner integrations, and support international and product expansion. Our operating results are also impacted by the mix of our revenue generated from our different revenue sources, which include transaction revenue and platform and other fee revenue. Changes in our revenue mix from quarter to quarter, including those derived from cross-border or domestic currency transactions, will impact our margins, and we may not be able to grow our gross margin adequately to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, the mix of payment methods utilized by our clients customers may have an impact on our margins given that our costs associated with certain payment methods, such as credit cards, are higher than other payment methods accepted by our solutions, such as bank transfers. Due to the cross-border nature of much of our business, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, slowdowns in international mobilityand other regional considerations may affect our operating results. We will also face increased compliance and security costs associated with growth, the expansion of our client base, and being a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for several reasons, including the other risks described herein, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. If the assumptions we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we are unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. Our financial results from any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as an indication of our future revenue or growth in revenue, gross profit or volume of payments processed. In addition, we expect to continue to expend substantial management time, financial and other resources on: sales, marketing, relationship management and client support, including an expansion of our sales organization, and new client support and payer retention initiatives; our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, scalability, availability, performance, and security; our technology development, including investments in our technology development team and the development of new solutions and new functionality; expanding into more international markets; retaining existing clients, attracting new clients and increasing the number of our clients customers that use our solutions; acquisitions or strategic investments; regulatory compliance and risk management; and general administration, including increased insurance, legal and accounting expenses associated with being a public company. These investments may not result in increased revenue growth in our business. If we are unable to increase our revenue at a rate sufficient to offset the expected increase in our costs, our business, financial position and operating results will be harmed, and we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability over the long term. We have a short operating history at our current scale in a rapidly and significantly evolving industry and, as a result, our past results may not be indicative of future operating performance. 30 We have a short history operating at our current scale in a rapidly and significantly evolving industry that may not develop in a manner favorable to our business. This relatively short operating history makes it difficult to assess our future performance with certainty. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to, among other things: cost-effectively acquire new clients, retain existing clients, increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions and sell additional functionality to our clients; maintain and increase our market share; avoid pricing pressure on our solutions which would compress our margins; effectively market our solutions; enhance our existing solutions and develop new solutions; increase awareness of our brand and maintain our reputation; develop new technologies, adapt to technology changes and evolving industry standards and to incorporate new technologies, such as artificial intelligence, into our solutions; offer seamless experience for our clients and their customers, including all user facing attributes ranging from the user interface to client and customer support; anticipate and respond to microeconomic and macroeconomic changes; expand our solutions and geographic reach, including with respect to B2B and travel payments; our decision to exit certain markets, or our inability to process payments from certain jurisdiction we had previously served; anticipate and effectively respond to changing trends and the preferences of clients and their customers; compete effectively; avoid interruptions in our business from information technology (IT) downtime, an inability to manage emerging technology risks (including those posed by generative AI or other tools), cybersecurity breaches, or labor stoppages; effectively manage our growth; effectively identify and manage risks, including foreign currency exchange risk; hire, integrate, and retain talented people at all levels of our organization; maintain the quality of our technology infrastructure; compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including with respect to employment, tax, competition, workplace and sustainability and other social matters; global pandemics, such as COVID-19, or other public health emergencies; retain our existing proprietary global network of banking and other payment partners and add new banking and other payment partners to scale our business; and retain our existing technology partners that allow us to provide alternative payment methods and add new technology partners to scale our business. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this section titled Risk Factors, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. 31 If we are unable to retain our current clients, attract new clients and increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions or sell additional functionality to our clients, our revenue growth and operating results will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, in addition to acquiring new clients, we must continue to retain existing clients, increase the volume of payments made by our clients customers and sell additional functionality to our clients. We expect to derive a significant portion of our revenue from the renewal of existing clients contracts and sales of additional features and solutions to existing clients. As the market for our solutions matures, solutions evolve, and competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated products or services that are perceived to compete with our solutions, our ability to attract (and our clients ability to attract) new customers and maintain our current client base and clients customer usage could be hindered. As a result, we may be unable to retain existing clients or increase the usage of our solutions by them or their customers, which would have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, gross profit, gross margins, and other operating results, and accordingly, on the trading price of our common stock. As the market for our solutions matures, or as new or existing competitors introduce new products or services that compete with our solutions, we may experience pricing pressure. This competition and pricing pressure could have an adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients or attract new clients at prices that are consistent with our pricing model, operating budget and expected operating margins. In particular, it has become more common in the education sector for competitors to offer generous revenue sharing arrangements for clients we target. Our business could be adversely affected if clients or their customers perceive that features incorporated into alternative products reduce the need for our solutions or if they prefer to use competitive services. If we are unable to attract new clients and increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions, our revenue growth and operating results will be adversely affected. Further, in an effort to attract new clients and increase usage by their customers, we may need to offer simpler, lower-priced payment options, which may reduce our revenue. Our ability to sell additional functionality to our existing clients may require more sophisticated and costly sales efforts, especially for our larger clients with more senior management and established accounts receivable solutions. Similarly, the rate at which our clients deploy additional solutions from us depends on several factors, including general economic conditions, the availability of client technical personnel to implement our solutions, and the pricing of additional functionality. If our efforts to sell additional functionality to our clients are not successful, our business and growth prospects would suffer. Contracts with our clients generally have a stated initial term of three years, are not subject to termination for convenience and automatically renew for one-year subsequent terms. Our clients may negotiate terms less advantageous to us upon renewal, which may reduce our revenue. If our clients fail to renew their contracts, renew their contracts upon terms less favorable to us or at lower fee levels or fail to purchase new solutions from us, our revenue may decline or our future revenue growth may be constrained. In addition, certain of our clients are subject to requirements to issue requests for proposals (RFPs) to open up competition for their ongoing business notwithstanding their satisfaction with our solutions. In order to retain their business, we may be required to accept terms or pricing conditions less favorable to us than would be the case with automatic renewal of an existing contract. Should any of our clients terminate their relationship with us after implementation has begun, we would not only lose our time, effort and resources invested in such implementation, but we would also have lost the opportunity to leverage those resources to build a relationship with other clients over that same period of time. We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, as well as our key metrics, due to a number of factors which make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below expectations or our guidance. Our operating results, and key metrics, may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. Our past results should not be relied on as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results or key metrics fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results have varied in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. In addition to other risk factors listed in this section titled Risk Factors, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, business and financial condition include the following: demand for our solutions and the number, volume and timing of payments processed; 32 timing of tuition payments; government restrictions or related limitations on the issuances of visas, such as recently enacted policies in Canada and Australia; market acceptance of our current and future solutions; our revenue mix in a particular quarter; the mix of payment methods and currencies utilized by our clients customers in a particular quarter; a slowdown or delay in spending on IT and software by our current and/or prospective clients; sales cycles and performance of our direct and indirect sales force; budgeting and implementation cycles of our current or potential clients; foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; the management, performance and expansion of our domestic and international operations; the rate of renewals of contracts with our clients; changes in the competitive dynamics of our markets; our ability to control and predict costs, including our operating expenses; clients delaying purchasing decisions, including in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; the seasonality and cyclical nature of our business; failure to successfully manage or integrate any acquisitions, including our most recent acquisitions of Sertifi, Cohort Go, StudyLink and Invoiced; the outcome or publicity surrounding any pending or threatened lawsuits or government investigations; general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets, including heightened interest rates, imposition of tariffs, inflation and fluctuations in supply chains, and restrictions on cross-border travel or commerce; changes in the level of scrutiny applied by regulators and investors on our ESG program; unexpected events, including those resulting from climate change, international or civil conflicts and wars, or other geopolitical events; expected or actual extended U.S. federal government shutdowns, priorities of the U.S. presidential administration and related changes in laws, regulations or policies, which among other things could result in increased limitations on visa issuances, geopolitical uncertainty and impact educational financial aid payments; and global pandemics, such as COVID-19, or other public health emergencies and the responses thereto. In addition, we may in the future experience fluctuations in our gross and operating margins due to changes in the mix of our domestic and international payments and the mix of payment methods, including an increase in the use of credit cards, and currencies used by our clients customers to make payments. Based upon the factors described above and those described elsewhere in this section titled Risk Factors, we have a limited ability to forecast the amount and mix of future revenues and expenses, which may cause our operating results to fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 33 Our restructuring plan may not yield its intended efficiencies and could strain resources, negatively impact workforce morale, and slow down execution of our strategic plans. In February 2025, we announced a restructuring plan that is designed to improve operational efficiencies, reduce operating costs and better align the our workforce with current business needs, top strategic priorities and key growth opportunities (Restructuring Plan). As part of the Restructuring Plan we have reduced our workforce by approximately 10%. This reduction in force, and any other future reductions, and the attrition that may occur following them, result in the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise and the reallocation and combination of certain roles and responsibilities across our company, all of which could adversely affect our operations. These actions and other additional measures we might take to reduce costs may potentially result in a strain our workforce, divert management attention, yield attrition beyond our intended reduction in force, negatively impact employee morale and productivity, cause us to delay, limit, reduce or eliminate certain strategic plans or otherwise interfere with our ability to operate and grow our business effectively, each of which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, as we are operating our business with a different level and mix of employees, we face additional risk that we might not be able to execute on our strategic plans and product roadmap, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Moreover, the workforce reduction we are implementing, though currently planned to be temporary, may negatively impact our ability to attract, integrate, retain and motivate highly qualified employees, make it difficult for us to pursue new opportunities and initiatives, and may harm our reputation with current or prospective employees. Our operational and business portfolio reviews may not result in improvements to our financial performance, strategy, or operations, and we face a number of risks related to such reviews. We are currently undertaking a comprehensive operational and business portfolio review that is expected to encompass geographies, products, verticals, and cost structure, and explore various options and an operational cost-saving review to identify efficiencies and synergies across all of our business areas, including opportunities to combine and optimize systems and processes. Implementation of a go forward plan and any other cost-saving initiatives, including possible future restructuring efforts, may be costly and disruptive to our business, the expected costs and charges may be greater than forecasted, and the estimated cost savings may be lower than forecasted. We may not achieve the desired strategic, operational, and financial benefits of any actions taken as a result of our operational and business portfolio reviews. Further, we may not be able to successfully execute the desired changes. During the pendency of these reviews or any transaction that may occur as a result of these reviews, we may be subject to risks related to a decline in the business or employee morale and turnover, as well as distraction of management from our business and clients, and investors may not react favorably to our decisions, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to successfully complete our operational and business portfolio reviews or we are unable to complete the proposed outcomes of these reviews or they do not meet our strategic objectives, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our operational and business portfolio reviews are ongoing, and we are continuing to carefully consider the full range of options for maximizing value to our shareholders, including potential transactions with third parties and other strategic and financial alternatives. There can be no assurance that the operational and business portfolio reviews will result in any particular action or that a transaction will be consummated, nor can there be any assurance regarding the timing of any action or transaction. We have not set a deadline or definitive timetable for the completion of our reviews, and we can provide no assurance that any actions taken or any transaction or other strategic alternative we may pursue will achieve the anticipated cost savings, operating efficiencies or have a positive impact on our results of operations or financial condition. We expect our revenue mix to vary over time, which could affect our gross profit, gross margin and results of operations. We expect our revenue mix to vary over time due to a number of factors. Shifts in our business mix from quarter to quarter could produce substantial variation in revenue recognized. Further, our gross profit, gross margins and results of operations could be affected by changes in revenue mix and costs, together with numerous other factors, including payment methods and currencies, pricing pressure from competitors, increases in credit card usage on our solutions and associated network fees, changes in payment volume across verticals and the portion of such payment volume for which we perform foreign exchange. Any one of these factors or the cumulative effects of certain of these factors may result in significant fluctuations in our gross profit, gross margin and results of operations. This variability and unpredictability could result in our failure to meet internal expectations or those of securities analysts or investors for a particular period. If we 34 fail to meet or exceed such expectations for these or any other reasons, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our efforts to attract new clients and increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions are unsuccessful, our revenue growth and operating results will be adversely affected. Our future growth and profitability will depend in large part upon the effectiveness and efficiency of our efforts to attract new clients and increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions. While we intend to dedicate resources to attracting new clients and increasing the number of our clients customers that use our solutions, our ability to do so depends in large part on the success of these efforts and the success of the marketing channels we use to promote our solutions. Our marketing channels include search engine optimization, search engine marketing, account-based direct marketing campaigns, industry events and association marketing relationships. If any of our current marketing channels become less effective, if we are unable to continue to use any of these channels, if the cost of using these channels were to significantly increase or if we are not successful in generating new channels, we may not be able to attract new clients in a cost-effective manner or increase the number of our clients customers that use our solutions. If we are unable to recover our marketing costs through increases in the number of clients and in the number of our clients customers that use our solutions, or if we discontinue our marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations, and financial condition. If we are unable to expand our direct and channel sales capabilities, grow our marketing reach and increase sales productivity, we may not be able to generate increased revenues. We believe that our future growth will depend on the continued development of our direct sales force and its ability to obtain new clients and to manage our existing client base. Our ability to increase our client base and achieve broader market acceptance of our solutions will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing organizations, and to deploy our sales and marketing resources efficiently. We intend to continue to strategically increase our number of direct sales professionals and to expand our relationships with new strategic channel partners. These efforts will require us to invest significant financial and other resources. New hires require training and take time to achieve full productivity. Similarly, new channel partnerships often take time to develop and may never yield results, as they require new partners to understand the services and solutions we offer, and how to position our value within the market. We cannot be certain that recent and future new hires or partner relationships will become as productive as necessary or that we will be able to hire enough qualified individuals or build effective channel sales in the future. If we are unable to hire, develop, integrate, and retain talented and effective sales personnel, if our new and existing sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels, or if our sales, channel strategy and marketing programs and advertising are not effective, we may not be able to expand our business and grow our revenue, which may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be adversely affected if our clients or their customers are not satisfied with the timing or quality of implementation services provided by us or our partners. Our business depends on our ability to satisfy our clients and their customers with respect to our solutions as well as the services that are performed to help our clients and their customers use the features and functions of our solutions. Services are usually performed by us, and are also on occasion provided together with a third-party partner. If our clients or their customers are not satisfied with the functionality of our solutions or the services that we or a third-party partner provide, such dissatisfaction could damage our ability to retain our current clients or expand our clients or their customers use of our solutions. In addition, any negative publicity and reviews that we may receive which is related to our client relationships may further damage our business and may invite enhanced regulatory scrutiny at the federal and state level in the United States as well as internationally. Our financial and operating results are subject to seasonality and cyclicality. Our financial and operating results are subject to seasonal trends. For example, the volume of education tuition processed typically increases in the northern hemisphere during the summer and early fall months, as well as at year end, as students and their families seek to pay tuition costs for the fall semester, the spring semester, or the entire academic year, respectively. We expect this seasonality of education tuition processing to continue and expect it to impact the amount of processing fees that we earn and the level of expenses we incur to generate tuition payment volume and process the higher volume activity in a particular fiscal quarter. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. 35 A majority of the total payment volume we have historically processed is cross-border payments denominated in many foreign currencies, which subjects us to foreign currency risk. The strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar versus these foreign currencies impacts the translation of our net revenues generated in these foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2024, as the U.S. Dollar weakened against several currencies, including the British Pound, relative to the prior year, these foreign exchange impacts increased our reported revenue in U.S. Dollars by approximately $2.3 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 on a constant currency basis. In connection with providing our solutions in multiple currencies, we may face financial exposure if we are unable to implement appropriate hedging strategies, negotiate beneficial foreign exchange rates, or as a result of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the times that we set them. We also have foreign exchange risk on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries. We also incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our non-U.S. locations in the local currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could result in the dollar equivalent of our expenses being higher which may not be offset by additional revenue earned in the local currency. This could have a negative impact on our reported results of operations. Periods of instability in the Eurozone, including fears of sovereign debt defaults, and stagnant growth generally, and of certain Eurozone member states in particular, have resulted in concerns regarding the suitability of a shared currency for the region, which could lead to the reintroduction of individual currencies for member states. If this were to occur, Euro-denominated assets and liabilities would be re-denominated to such individual currencies, which could result in a mismatch in the values of assets and liabilities and expose us to additional currency risks. As our international operations continue to operate and grow, our risks associated with fluctuation in currency rates will become greater, and we will continue to reassess our approach to managing this risk, such as using foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our use of such hedging practices may not offset any, or more than a portion, of the adverse effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. In addition, currency fluctuations or a weakening U.S. dollar can increase the costs of our international operations, and the strengthening U.S. dollar could slow international demand as solutions priced in the U.S. dollar become more expensive. Certain of our key performance indicators are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. We track certain key performance indicators, including metrics such as total payment volume, revenue less ancillary services, FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services, adjusted gross profit, adjusted gross margin, adjusted EBITDA, and adjusted EBITDA margin, with internal systems and tools and which may differ from estimates or similar metrics published by third parties due to differences in sources, methodologies, or the assumptions on which we rely. Our internal systems and tools have a number of limitations, and our methodologies for tracking these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our key performance indicators, including the metrics we publicly disclose, or our estimates. If the internal systems and tools we use to track these metrics undercount or overcount performance or contain algorithmic or other technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring these metrics across our growing client base. If our key performance indicators are not accurate representations of our business, or if investors, clients or other stakeholders do not perceive our operating metrics to be accurate, or if we discover material inaccuracies with respect to these figures, our reputation may be significantly harmed, and our operating and financial results could be adversely affected. Our business depends, in large part, on our proprietary network of global, regional and local banking partners. To grow our business, we will need to maintain and expand our network of global, regional and local banking partners. Our proprietary network of strategic relationships with global, regional and local banking partners is a material asset to our business, which took more than a decade to build. Establishing and maintaining our strategic partner relationships, particularly with our banking partners entails extensive and highly specific efforts, with little predictability and various ancillary requirements. These partners and suppliers have contractual and regulatory requirements and conditions that we must satisfy and continue to comply with in order to continue and grow the relationships. For example, our financial institution partners generally require us to submit to an exhaustive security audit including adherence to AML policies and KYC procedures. If we are not able to comply with those obligations or if our agreements with our banking partners or our network partners are terminated for any reason, we could experience service interruptions as well as delays and additional expenses in arranging new services, potentially interfering with our existing client relationships or making us less attractive to potential new clients. 36 In addition, our existing banking partners may at any time and from time to time cease serving certain categories of payments due to perceived risk or similar reasons as well as payments originating from, or being paid to, certain high risk jurisdictions. These partners may also impose additional requirements on Flywire, or with respect to their own internal procedures, as a condition of processing such payments in partnership with us. If we cease to be able to process payments from corridors or within certain of our verticals, or we are unable to comply with new requirements or only at considerable expense, our client relationships and ability to grow our revenue could be adversely affected. Instability and volatility in the banking and financial services sectors, including bank failures, have increased and may in the future increase uncertainty in the global economy and the risk of a global recession. Volatility in the banking and financial services sectors may adversely impact our bank partnerships and could negatively impact our business. We may face difficulty establishing or maintaining banking relationships due to instability in the global banking system and increasing regulatory uncertainty and scrutiny. If these financial institutions are subject to suspension of operations, receivership, closure or similar action, or if our banking relationships become severely limited or unavailable in a certain country, there could be temporary delays in or unavailability of services in such country that are critical to our or our clients' operations. This could potentially lead to reduced use of our platform and lower payment volume which may adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may not be able to attract new network partners to our existing network of global, regional and local banking partners, which could adversely affect our ability to expand to additional countries and territories and transact in additional currencies. In addition, our potential partners may choose to work with our competitors or choose to compete with our solutions directly, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position, and operating results. Further, many of our network partners have greater resources than we do and could choose to develop their own solutions to replace or compete with ours. If we are unsuccessful in establishing, growing, or maintaining our relationships with network partners, our ability to compete or to grow our revenue could be impaired, and our results of operations may suffer. Our growth depends in part on the success of our relationships with other (non-banking) third parties. We have established relationships with a number of other companies, including financial institutions, processors, other financial services suppliers, channel sales partners, providers of electronic health records (EHR) services, implementation partners, technology and cloud-based hosting providers, and others. In order to grow our business, we will need to continue to establish and maintain relationships with these types of third parties, and negotiating and documenting relationships with them requires significant time and resources. Our competitors may be more effective in providing incentives to third parties to favor their products or services. If we are unsuccessful in establishing or maintaining our relationships with third parties, our ability to compete in the marketplace or to grow our revenues could be impaired and our operating results could suffer. Even if our strategic relationships are successful, we cannot assure you that these relationships will result in increased client usage of our solutions or increased revenues. The markets in which we participate are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. The market for payments solutions is fragmented, competitive, and constantly evolving. Our competitors range from legacy payment methods, such as traditional bank wires, to integrated payment providers that focus on cross-border payments. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect that the competitive environment will remain intense going forward. Our competitors that offer legacy payment methods or integrated cross-border payment platforms may develop products that compete with ours. Financial institutions that choose to enter into and compete in our market may have the operating flexibility to bundle competing solutions with other offerings, including offering them at a lower price or for no additional cost to clients as part of a larger sale. In addition, new entrants not currently considered to be competitors may enter the market through acquisitions, partnerships, or strategic relationships. Many of our domestic and foreign competitors have greater resources, experience or more developed customer relationships than we do. For example, foreign competitors may seek to leverage local or common language relationships to cater to potential customers of our clients. There are new market entrants with innovative revenue sharing and other pricing arrangements that are able to attract customers that we compete to serve. Our competitors vary in size, breadth, and scope of the solutions offered. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more established client relationships, larger marketing budgets, and greater resources than us. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly and effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, and client requirements. For example, an existing competitor or new entrant could introduce new technology that reduces demand for our solutions. 37 For these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, and this competition could result in the failure of our solutions to continue to achieve or maintain market acceptance, any of which would harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our estimates of market opportunity and our ability to capture a meaningful share of this payment volume may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our market opportunity estimates, including those we have generated ourselves and our ability to capture a meaningful share of this payment volume, are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. The variables that go into the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, and there is no guarantee that any payment volumes covered by our market opportunity estimates will materialize in clients using our solutions as anticipated or generate any particular level of revenue for us. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our business and those of our competitors. Even if the market in which we compete meets the size estimates and growth forecasted, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our growth is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. Our clients in the education sector may be adversely affected by decreases in enrollment, limitations or other restrictions on student visas, pressure on tuition costs, or increased operating expenses, which may reduce demand for our solutions. We are reliant on our education clients, including colleges, universities and other education-related organizations that include language schools, boarding schools, summer programs, and others, to drive enrollment at their schools and maintain tuition costs. Factors outside of our control will affect enrollments and tuition costs, including the following: Declines in international student enrollment. Global conflict, geopolitical tensions and restrictions on immigration or increased limitation on the award of student visas (such as those recently announced in Canada and Australia) has and is expected to continue to negatively impact the cross-border education industry and schools that rely on foreign student populations. Reduced enrollment in higher education due to lack of funding, increases to cost of attendance or other inflationary pressure. Some institutes of higher education may close or merge with other colleges and universities. Significant reductions in student funding, through grants or loans, may reduce enrollments and decrease the payment volume we process. Potential students may also be deterred by increases in the cost of attendance. Government supported institutions may experience losses or reduction in public funding. Many of our clients rely considerably upon public funding or support, which may not always be available due to budget constraints. Changing perceptions about in-person classes. Students may reject the opportunity to attend courses in person, when online or virtual classes are offered as an option, due to growing familiarity and perceived convenience of remote learning or a lower price point for online classes. Our clients rankings, reputation and marketing efforts strongly affect enrollments, none of which we control. If we fail to maintain or add clients with strong, stable reputations and rankings, they will fail to achieve consistent enrollments. General economic conditions. Any contraction in the economy could be expected to reduce enrollment in higher education, whether by reducing funding, reducing corporate allowances for continuing education, general reductions in employment or savings or other factors. International cross-border transaction revenue represents a significant part of our revenue; international regulations and restrictions that inhibit cross-border travel and relocation of international students, as well as ongoing political friction between China and the U.S., as well as between Canada and India, that has from time to time slowed the growth of Chinese students studying in the U.S. and Indian students studying in Canada, and may have resulted in changes in Chinese and Indian student education destinations, have had and may continue to have an impact on our revenue growth. These geopolitical tensions and perceptions regarding potential hostility of host country study destinations may further suppress interest in international study (even at levels below the caps described below set by the governments of Canada and Australia), which would have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 38 In January 2024, the Canadian government announced what at the time appeared to be a temporary intake cap on international student permit applications to stabilize new growth for a period of two years. This cap intended to address Canadas housing shortage, overburdened health systems, and rising costs of living has reportedly reduced the number of international students coming to Canada by about 40% since implementation. Building on these changes, the Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) announced in January 2025 that new study permits for international students will be reduced by 10% from the 2024 target of 485,000 to 437,000 in 2025 and 2026. When first instituted by the IRCC, the cap initially excluded students enrolled in masters and PhD programs, but recent reports indicate that the 2025 and 2026 study permit intake cap will include masters and doctoral students. Additionally, in November 2024, Canada ended its Student Direct Stream (SDS) program for expedited international student visa processing, and international students applying to study in Canada no longer need to prepay tuition to apply for a study permit. These limitations have resulted in a corresponding reduction in payment flows, which had an adverse effect on our business in the fourth quarter of 2024 and which we anticipate will continue to impact our Canada revenues in 2025. Similarly, since late 2023, the Australian government has taken actions to tighten international student visa rules, including an increase in the amount of minimum savings that international students would need to have in order to obtain a visa, raising the standards of the English language proficiency requirements for student and graduate visas, a 125% increase in the visa fee for international students, and the imposition of a ban for holders of visitor visas and students holding temporary graduate visas from applying for a student visa while in Australia. In August 2024, the Australian government announced the setting of a national planning level to apply from January 1, 2025 and which is intended to limit the number of new overseas student places available in Australia including a ceiling of 270,000 international students for calendar year 2025. However, in December 2024, the government announced a change of course, instead implementing a system to introduce two categories of student visa processing: high priority and standard priority, with all international education providers to receive high priority processing up to 80% of their indicative international student cap. After reaching 80%, the providers will receive standard priority processing. These new Australian government policies, including university quotas, slower visa processing, higher fees, and stricter financial and language requirements, has had an adverse impact on our business in the fourth quarter of 2024 and we anticipate will continue to impact our Australian revenues in 2025. Other governments where our client institutions are located, including in the U.S., may introduce measures from time to time to manage the growth of the international student population in their respective countries, which may have adverse effects on our business. Our U.S. market saw slower growth in the fourth quarter of 2024 due to shifting visa trends. In addition, there are reports that the new executive administration in the U.S. is likely to closely scrutinize applications for international student visas, adding to uncertainty around the number of students coming to the U.S. to study in the near future. Delays in issuances of visas or visa denials may discourage prospective international students from choosing U.S. institutions as places for study. The existing rules and any introduction of new rules further limiting the attractiveness of international study by the governments of countries where our client institutions are located has and is expected in the near term to continue to adversely impact the growth of our business in the applicable regions. In addition to caps on international students, government changes to other visa or student insurance requirements (for example, no longer requiring a one year tuition deposit as a condition to issuance of a student visa, or eliminating a need to procure insurance) may negatively impact payment volume. The existing rules and any introduction of new rules further limiting potential payment flows or the attractiveness of international study by the governments of countries where our client institutions are located has and could continue to adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition, some clients customers may find that higher education is an unnecessary investment during uncertain economic times and defer enrollment in educational institutions until the economy grows at a stronger pace, or they may turn to less costly forms of secondary education, thus decreasing our education payment volumes. A significant decrease in the payment volume and resulting revenue from clients and their customers in this market would have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The healthcare industry is rapidly evolving and the market for technology-enabled payment services that empower healthcare clients and their customers is relatively immature and unproven. If we are not successful in promoting the benefits of our solutions, our growth may be limited. The market for our payment solutions is subject to rapid and significant changes. The market for technology-enabled payment services that empower healthcare clients and their customers is characterized by rapid technological change, new product and service introductions, increasing patient financial responsibility, consumerism and engagement, the ongoing shift to value-based care and reimbursement models, and the entrance of non-traditional competitors. In addition, there may be a limited-time opportunity to achieve and maintain a significant share of this market due in part to the rapidly 39 evolving nature of the healthcare and technology industries and the substantial resources available to our existing and potential competitors. The market for technology-enabled payment services that empower healthcare clients and their customers is relatively new and unproven, and it is uncertain whether this market will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market adoption. In order to remain competitive, we are continually involved in a number of projects to compete with these new market entrants by developing new solutions, growing our client base and penetrating new markets. Some of these projects include the expansion of our integration capabilities and the expansion of our mobile solutions. These projects carry risks, such as cost overruns, delays in delivery, performance problems and lack of acceptance by our clients. Our integration partners may also decide to develop and offer their own patient engagement solutions that are similar to our solutions. In addition, the decisions we make on allocation of engineering resources, reliance on, integration with or discontinuance of, legacy systems or those acquired in acquisition, or the pace at which we remain technologically current within our internal systems and customer payment platforms, may negatively affect the morale of our engineering teams and the payment experiences our clients wish to feature to their customers. We may lose engineering talent or healthcare clients as a result, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends on providing high-quality payment solutions that healthcare clients use to improve their financial and operational performance, allowing them to collect payments and enhance their revenue lifecycle management objectives. If we cannot adapt to rapidly evolving industry standards and technology and increasingly sophisticated and varied healthcare client and customer payment needs, our existing technology could become undesirable, obsolete or harm our reputation. We must continue to invest significant resources in our personnel and technology in a timely and cost-effective manner in order to enhance our existing solutions and introduce new high-quality solutions that existing clients and potential new clients will want. Our operating results would also suffer if our innovations are not responsive to the needs of our existing clients or potential new clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity, are not effectively brought to market or significantly increase our operating costs. If our new or modified product and service innovations are not responsive to the preferences of healthcare clients and their customers, emerging industry standards or regulatory changes, are not appropriately timed with market opportunity or are not effectively brought to market, we may lose existing clients or be unable to obtain new clients and our results of operations may suffer. We believe demand for our payment solutions in the healthcare industry has been driven in large part by more patient responsibility for out-of-pocket spend, a trend towards higher deductibles for health care services, increased digitization in payments, and the tailoring of payment offers and increased patient engagement. Our success also depends to a substantial extent on the ability of our solutions to increase the volume of our clients customers payments, and our ability to demonstrate the value of our solutions to our clients. If our existing clients do not recognize or acknowledge the benefits of our solutions or our solutions do not drive payment volume, then the market for our solutions might not develop at all, or it might develop more slowly than we expect, either of which could adversely affect our operating results. A significant decrease in the payment volume and resulting revenue from our clients and their customers in the healthcare industry may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have limited insight into trends that might develop and affect our healthcare business. We might make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business, legal and regulatory trends and healthcare reform, which could harm our business. If any of these events occur, it could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Finally, our competitors, including major EHR providers, may have the ability to devote more financial and operational resources than we can to developing new technologies and services, including services that provide improved operating functionality, and adding features to their existing service offerings. Relationships with companies in the EHR space and business focused on revenue lifecycle management are critical to leverage if we are to add to our healthcare customer portfolio. However, intense competition and rising costs experienced by certain major EHR providers has resulted, in certain cases, in increased financial strain on these businesses, and in at least one notable instance, an action to seek bankruptcy protection. To the extent we have outstanding amounts owed to us by companies that seek bankruptcy protection or cease operations, it may become difficult for us to be paid in full in a timely manner, if at all. Many of these companies may offer products and services similar to ours and may have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, stronger and more dependent client relationships, larger marketing budgets, and greater resources than us. If successful, their development efforts could render our solutions less desirable, resulting in the loss of our existing clients or a reduction in the fees we generate from our solutions. 40 Our business serving clients in the travel sector may be sensitive to events affecting the travel industry in general. Events like regional or larger scale conflicts, war or other military conflict, including the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, and Israel and Hamas, terrorist attacks, mass shooting incidents, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, fires, droughts, floods and volcanic activity, including events resulting from climate change, and travel-related health events, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had a negative impact on the travel industry and affect travelers behavior by limiting their ability or willingness to visit certain locations. In addition, the travel industry can be negatively impacted by adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally, including economic slowdown, heightened interest rates and inflation. We are not in a position to evaluate the net effect of these circumstances on our business as these events are largely unpredictable; however, we believe there has been and may continue to be negative impact to our business due to such events. Furthermore, in the longer term, our business might be negatively affected by regulatory changes, financial pressures on or changes to the travel industry. For example, certain jurisdictions, particularly in Europe, have implemented or are considering implementing regulations intended to address the issue of overtourism including by restricting access to city centers or popular tourist destinations or limiting accommodation offerings in surrounding areas, such as by restricting construction of new hotels or the renting of homes or apartments. Such regulations could adversely affect travel and the volume of travel related payments that we process for our clients. In addition, any hostility towards tourists may depress international travel. The United States has implemented or proposed, or is considering, various changes in laws, regulations or policies that could affect U.S. trade policy or practices, relations with other countries and travel permits, which could also adversely affect travel to or from the United States. If such events result in a long-term negative impact on the travel industry, such impact could have a material adverse effect on our business. The payment volume from our travel vertical represented less than 10% of our total payment volume during the year ended December 31, 2024. Because we seek to grow the payment volume and the revenue from this vertical in the future through various initiatives, including the recently announced Sertifi acquisition, failure to grow our payment volume and resulting revenue from this industry, may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to enter or expand new client verticals or sub-verticals, including our relatively new B2B payment vertical, or if our solutions for any new vertical fail to achieve market acceptance, our operating results could be adversely affected and we may be required to reconsider our growth strategy. Our growth strategy is influenced, in part, on our ability to expand into new client verticals and sub-verticals, including our relatively new B2B payment vertical. The B2B payment vertical represents a relatively new market for us, and we have limited prior experience with the key ERP platforms that are critical to the B2B payment vertical. Accordingly, our lack of experience in the B2B payment vertical and with the key ERP platforms may result in operational difficulties, which could cause a delay or failure to integrate and realize the benefits of entering into this vertical. In addition, B2B payments carry a higher risk profile than education or healthcare receivables, and we will be required to devote more resources to manage the increased risk inherent in these payments. Banking and other payment services partners may be more reluctant to support B2B payment flows, and countries with currency controls are less likely to permit payments of a B2B nature. The payment volume and resulting revenue from our B2B payment vertical during the year ended December 31, 2024 represented, and is expected for the foreseeable future to represent, less than 10% of our total payment volume and revenue. We expect both the payment volume and the revenue from this vertical to grow over time. As such, failure to grow our payment volume and resulting revenue from our B2B payment vertical may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to identify new verticals or sub-verticals that meet our criteria for selecting industries that our solutions are ideally suited to address. In addition, our market validation process may not support entry into selected verticals due to our perception of the overall market opportunity or of the willingness of market participants within those verticals to adopt our solutions. Even if we choose to enter new verticals or sub-verticals, our market validation process does not guarantee our success. We may be unable to tailor our solutions for a new vertical or, in the event that we enter a new vertical by way of a strategic acquisition, we may be unable to leverage the acquired platform in time to take advantage of the identified market opportunity, and any delay in our time-to-market could expose us to additional competition or other factors that could impede our success. In addition, any solution we develop or acquire for a new vertical may not provide the functionality required by potential clients or their customers and, as a result, may not achieve widespread market acceptance within the new vertical. To the extent we choose to enter new verticals, whether organically or via strategic 41 acquisition, we may invest significant resources to develop and expand the functionality of our solutions to meet the needs of customers in those verticals, which investments will occur in advance of our realization of revenue from them. Consolidation in the payment processing or enablement industry could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many payment processing or enablement industry participants are consolidating to create larger and more integrated financial processing systems with greater market power. We expect regulatory and economic conditions to result in additional consolidation in the healthcare industry in the future. As consolidation accelerates, the economies of scale of our clients organizations may grow. If a client experiences sizable growth following consolidation, it may determine that it no longer needs to rely on us and may reduce its demand for our solutions. In addition, as payment processing providers consolidate to create larger and more integrated systems with greater market power, these providers may try to use their market power to negotiate fee reductions for our solutions. Finally, consolidation may also result in the acquisition or future development by our clients of products and services that compete with our solutions. Any of these potential results of consolidation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by global economic and political instability. As we seek to continue to operate and expand our business, our overall performance will depend in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions. Economies domestically and internationally have been affected from time to time by falling demand for a variety of goods and services, restricted credit, poor liquidity, heightened interest rates, reduced corporate profitability, employment pressures in services sectors, volatility in the banking ecosystem or credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, bankruptcies, as well as war, terrorist activity, political or social unrest, civil strife and other geopolitical uncertainty, including the effects of ongoing diplomatic and trade friction between Canada and India and the U.S. and countries such as Canada, Mexico and China, and the resulting impact on business continuity and travel, supply chain disruptions, inflation, security issues, and overall uncertainty with respect to the economy, including with respect to tariff and trade issues. To the extent that inflationary pressures and other global factors lead to an economic recession, demand for our solutions, our business and financial condition could be negatively impacted. In addition, from time to time we have reduced expenses and needed to restructure or reorganize certain portions of our operations, including our restructuring announced in February 2025, in order to align our business with market conditions and our strategies, any of which can result in near term expense and harm to our growth prospects. For example, on February 24, 2022, Russian military forces invaded Ukraine, and continued conflict and disruption in the region is likely, and on October 7, 2023, Hamas terrorists infiltrated Israels southern border from the Gaza Strip and conducted a series of attacks on civilian and military targets. Hamas also launched extensive rocket attacks on the Israeli population and industrial centers located along Israels border with the Gaza Strip and in other areas within the State of Israel. On October 8, 2023, Israel formally declared war on Hamas, and thereafter commenced military operations against Hamas. Although recent cease-fires have in some instances reduced hostilities, armed conflict is continuing and could intensify if cease-fires are not sustained, and conflict could spread between Israel and Iran, and also further affect Lebanon. The Israel Defense Force (IDF), the national military of Israel, is a conscripted military service, subject to certain exceptions. Since the outbreak of hostilities, the IDF has called up more than 350,000 of its reserve forces to serve. It is possible that there will be further military reserve duty call-ups in the future, which may affect our business due to a shortage of skilled labor and loss of institutional knowledge, and necessary mitigation measures we may take to respond to a decrease in labor availability, such as overtime and third-party outsourcing, for example, may have unintended negative effects and adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shelter-in-place and work-from-home measures, government-imposed restrictions on movement and travel and other precautions taken to address the ongoing conflict may temporarily disrupt our employees ability to effectively perform their daily tasks. Although the length, impact and outcome of the ongoing conflicts in Ukraine and Israel are highly unpredictable, these conflicts could lead to significant market and other disruptions, including significant volatility in commodity prices and supply of energy resources, instability in financial markets, supply chain interruptions, political and social instability, changes in consumer or purchaser preferences as well as an increase in cyberattacks and espionage. We are actively monitoring the situations in Ukraine and Israel and assessing any potential impact on our business, but to date have not experienced any material impact. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the conflicts 42 in Ukraine and Israel as the conflicts, and any resulting government reactions, continue to develop beyond our control and can quickly change. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions could be significant and could potentially have a substantial impact on the global economy and our business for an unknown period of time. As the adverse effects of these conflicts continue to develop and potentially spread, both in Europe, the Middle East and through the rest of the world, our clients, and customer behavior, may be negatively impacted, which could negatively affect sales and sales cycles and overall demand for our solutions. Further or prolonged impacts on the global economy could also cause businesses to curtail business expenses, which could hinder our ability to attract new clients or result in a decrease in payment volume. It is not possible to predict the ultimate broader consequences of these conflicts and any of the abovementioned factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly to the extent the conflict escalates to involve additional countries, further economic sanctions and wider military conflicts. Any such disruptions could also magnify the impact of other risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, political tensions between the U.S. and countries, such as Canada, Mexico and China, have recently escalated due to, among other things, priorities and executive orders from the new U.S. presidential administration, and could have an adverse effect on our operations. Rising political tensions could reduce levels of trade, investments, technological and educational exchanges, travel and other economic activities between the U.S. and such other countries, which would have a material adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets. For example, the Trump administration recently confirmed its intent to impose heavy tariffs on imports from several nations, including Canada, Mexico, and China. On February 3, 2025, President Trump announced a deal to delay the imposition of tariffs on imports from Canada and Mexico by a month. However, any such tariffs, if and when enacted, and any further legislation or actions taken by the U.S. federal government (and responsive actions adopted by other countries as well) that restrict trade, such as additional tariffs, trade barriers, and other protectionist or retaliatory measures could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that, if the political tension between the U.S. and other countries intensifies and further regulations affecting our business are passed, our business will not be materially and adversely affected. Inflation and heightened interest rates have and may in the future result in decreased demand for our solutions, increases in our operating costs including our labor costs, constrained credit and liquidity, and volatility in financial markets and the banking ecosystem. Although the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates by 50 basis points on September 18, 2024, interest rates remain elevated and there continues to be uncertainty in the changing market and economic conditions, including the effects of additional measures that have and could be taken by the Trump administration, the Federal Reserve and other government agencies, related to concerns over inflation risk. A sharp rise in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the fair market value of securities we may invest in as part of our portfolio investments, which could adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Operations We may not be able to scale our business quickly enough to meet our growing client base, and if we are not able to grow efficiently, our operating results could be harmed. As usage of our solutions grows and we sign additional clients and technology partners, we will need to devote additional resources to improving and maintaining our infrastructure and global payments network and integrating with third-party applications to maintain the performance of our solutions. In addition, we will need to appropriately scale our internal business systems, including client support, our 24x7 multilingual support to clients customers and risk and compliance operations, to serve our growing client base. Any failure of or delay in these efforts could result in interruptions to our solutions, impaired system performance, and reduced client satisfaction, resulting in decreased sales to clients, lower renewal rates by existing clients, the issuance of service credits, or requested refunds, all of which could hurt our revenue growth. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our solutions to clients and their customers and could result in lost client opportunities and lower renewal rates, any of which could hurt our revenue growth, client loyalty, and our reputation. Even if we are successful in these efforts to scale our business, they will be expensive and complex, and require the dedication of significant management time and attention. We could also face inefficiencies or service disruptions as a result of our efforts to scale or improve our internal infrastructure. We cannot be sure that the expansion and improvements to our internal infrastructure will be effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all, and such failures could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 43 We enable the transfer of large sums of funds to our clients daily, and are subject to the risk of errors, which could result in financial losses, damage to our reputation, or loss of trust in our brand, which would harm our business and financial results. For the year ended December 31, 2024, we processed over $29.7 billion in payments on our solutions, compared to over $24.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, and approximately $18.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022. We have grown rapidly and seek to continue to grow, and our business is subject to the risk of financial losses as a result of chargebacks for client-related losses, credit losses, operational errors, software defects, service disruption, employee or partner misconduct, security breaches, or other similar actions or errors in our solutions. As a provider of accounts receivable and other payment solutions, we enable the transfer of funds to our clients from their customers. Software errors in our solutions, including as a result of ordinary course updates to our software and systems, and operational errors by our FlyMates and business partners may also expose us to losses. In our business model, subject to certain exceptions, we function as a merchant of record in connection with the receipt of payments by our clients customers, which subjects us to chargeback risk in the event a clients customer cancels or otherwise does not receive the services for which such customer paid. Although our client contracts allow us to pass such chargeback risk to our client, if a client has gone out of business or we are otherwise unable to collect on the chargeback, we will bear the economic loss, which can negatively impact our business. Moreover, our trustworthiness and reputation are fundamental to our business. As a global payments enablement and software company, the occurrence of any credit losses, operational errors, software defects, service disruption, employee misconduct, security breaches, or other similar actions or errors in our solutions could result in financial losses to our business and our clients, loss of trust, damage to our reputation, or termination of our agreements with strategic partners, each of which could result in: loss of clients or a reduction in use of our solutions by our clients customers; lost or delayed market acceptance and acquisition of new clients; legal claims against us; regulatory enforcement action; or diversion of our resources, including through increased service expenses or financial concessions, and increased insurance costs. There can be no assurance that the insurance we maintain to cover losses resulting from our errors and omissions will cover all losses or our coverage will be sufficient to cover our losses. If we suffer significant losses or reputational harm as a result, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our management of our operating funds and client funds may be reliant on a limited number of our banking partners and other financial institutions. As to certain verticals that we may choose to serve, as well as in selected geographical locations, our network of banking and other financial institution partners may be limited. As a result, although we seek to distribute financial and credit risk among multiple financial institutions, from time to time there may be a concentration of operating funds or client fund flows among a more limited number of financial institution partners. These partners are generally heavily regulated by national and local governments, and in some locations may be involved in a multitude of related businesses or part of larger, higher-profile financial conglomerates. These partners and suppliers are often subject to strict regulatory requirements and enforcement actions or may experience failures to satisfy capital adequacy conditions that result in a suspension of operations, seizure of assets or closure, which could materially impact the safeguarding of our operating funds or client funds. If we are not able to access, or are delayed in accessing, our own funds or if client funds were in any way impacted, we could be adversely impacted, including by experiencing reputational damage and claims for restitution, potentially interfering with our existing client relationships or making us less attractive to potential new clients. Our marketable securities portfolio is subject to credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks that could cause its value to decline significantly and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We maintain an investment portfolio of marketable securities. These investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks that can affect the income that we receive from our investments, the net realizable 44 value of our investments, and our ability to sell them, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial markets. As a result, we may experience a significant decline in value or loss of liquidity of our investments, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. We attempt to mitigate these risks through diversification of our investments and continuous monitoring of our portfolios overall risk profile, but the value of our investments may nevertheless decline. To the extent that we increase the amount of our security investments in the future, these risks could be exacerbated. Volatility in the banking and financial services ecosystems may impact our bank partnerships and relationships, which could adversely affect our operations and liquidity. Instability and volatility in the banking and financial services ecosystems, including limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect the banking ecosystem, or concerns or rumors about any such events or other similar risks, has and may in the future increase uncertainty in the global economy and the risk of a recession. Volatility in the banking and financial services sectors may impact our bank partnerships and relationships, which could adversely affect our operations and liquidity. Our cash equivalents include money market funds, which are AAA-rated and comprised of liquid, high-quality debt securities issued by the U.S. government. Our access to our cash and cash equivalents and client funds could be significantly impacted in volatile markets given our concentration in government money market funds or impaired by the financial institutions with which we have arrangements directly, if such financial institutions are facing liquidity constraints or failures. We regularly maintain cash balances at third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit. A failure of a depository institution to return these deposits, or if a depository institution is subject to other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets, could further impact access to our invested cash or cash equivalents and could adversely impact our operating liquidity, financial performance and ability to recover or repay client funds. If one or more of our bank partners were to fail and enter receivership proceedings, we may not be able to withdraw our or our clients' funds in excess of FDIC insurance limits, or may not be able to withdraw such funds in a timely manner, which could adversely affect our brand, business and results of operations, and may lead to regulatory or other claims or litigation, which may be costly to address. In addition, investor concerns regarding the U.S. or international financial systems could result in less favorable commercial financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter financial and operating covenants, or systemic limitations on access to credit and liquidity sources, thereby making it more difficult for us to acquire financing on acceptable terms or at all. Any material decline in available funding or our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents could adversely impact our ability to meet our operating expenses, result in breaches of our contractual obligations or result in violations of federal or state wage and hour laws, any of which could have material adverse impacts on our operations and liquidity. If we are unable to maintain or expand our ability to offer a variety of local and international payment methods for our clients to make available to their customers, or if we fail to continue to grow and develop preferred payment choices, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The continued growth and development of our proprietary global payments network will also depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in client and customer behavior. For example, behavior may change regarding the use of credit and debit card transactions, including the relative increased use of cash, crypto-currencies, other emerging or alternative payment methods and credit card systems that may include strong regional preferences that we or our processing partners do not adequately support. Any failure to timely integrate emerging payment methods into our solutions, anticipate behavior changes, or contract with payment processing partners that support such emerging payment technologies could cause our clients to use our solutions less, resulting in a corresponding loss of revenue, in the event such methods become popular among their customers. The number and variety of the payment methods we offer or currencies we are able to service may not meet client expectations, or the costs borne by our clients customers in completing payments may become unsuitable. Accordingly, we may need to change our pricing strategies or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross profit, and operating results. We utilize a number of payment providers to clear and settle transactions for our clients, including payments providers such as China UnionPay Co. Ltd. and Adyen N.V. If the services provided by these partners become unavailable due to extended outages or interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, or due to regulatory restrictions or for any other reason, our expenses could increase and our ability to process certain payments could be materially interrupted, all of which could harm our business, financial condition, and 45 results of operations. In addition, our agreements with these providers include certain terms and conditions. These providers have broad discretion to change their terms of service and other policies with respect to our business, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. Therefore, we believe that maintaining successful partnerships with these payment providers is critical to our success. We, our strategic partners and our clients obtain and process large amounts of personal and sensitive data. Any real or perceived improper or unauthorized use of, disclosure of, or access to such data could harm our reputation as a trusted brand, as well as have a material adverse effect on our business. We, our strategic partners and our clients, and the third-party vendors that we use, obtain and process large amounts of sensitive data, including personally identifiable information, also referred to as personal data, and other potentially sensitive data related to our clients, their customers and each of their transactions, as well as a variety of such data relating to our own workforce and internal operations. We face risks, including to our reputation as a trusted brand, in the handling and protection of this data, and these risks will increase as our business continues to expand to include new solutions and technologies. We are responsible for data security for ourselves and for third parties with whom we partner and under the rules and regulations established by the payment networks, such as Visa, Mastercard and American Express, and debit card networks and by industry regulations and standards that may be promulgated by organizations such as NACHA, which manages the governance of the ACH network in the United States. These third parties include our distribution partners and other third-party service providers and agents. We and other third parties collect, process, store and/or transmit personal and sensitive data, such as names, addresses, social security numbers, credit or debit card numbers and expiration dates, drivers license numbers and bank account numbers. We have ultimate liability to the payment networks and to our clients for our failure or the failure of third parties with whom we contract to protect this data in accordance with PCI DSS and network requirements. The loss, destruction or unauthorized modification or disclosure of merchant or cardholder data by us or our contracted third parties could result in significant fines, sanctions, claims, litigation and proceedings or actions against us by the payment networks, governmental entities, clients, client customers or others and damage our reputation. Similarly, there are existing regulatory regimes designed to protect the privacy of categories of personal or otherwise sensitive data. Relevant U.S. federal privacy laws include the FERPA, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), and HIPAA. We also are subject to stringent contractual obligations relating to the handling of such data, including obligations that are more restrictive than legally required. For example, under HIPAA, the information we collect during the payment experience may include protected health Information (PHI), and as such, we are considered a business associate of the U.S. healthcare clients we serve, and we are required to enter into a business associate agreement (BAA) with these clients. The BAAs largely mirror some of the statutory obligations contained in HIPAA, but many contain additional contractual undertakings that give these clients additional remedies in the event of a breach of our obligations to protect the confidentiality of the clients PHI or otherwise meet our contractual obligations. Privacy laws impose a variety of compliance burdens on us and our clients, such as requiring notice to individuals of privacy practices, providing individuals with certain rights to prevent the use and disclosure of protected information, and also imposing requirements for safeguarding and proper destruction of personal information through the issuance of data security standards or guidelines. Privacy laws grant audit rights to our regulators and those of our clients. Any unauthorized disclosure of PHI or other data we are obligated to protect by regulation or contract could result in significant fines, sanctions, or requirements to take corrective action and could materially adversely affect our reputation and business. Threats may derive from human error, fraud, or malice on the part of employees or third parties, or from accidental technological failure. For example, certain of our FlyMates have access to personal and sensitive data that could be used to commit identity theft or fraud. Concerns about security increase when we transmit information electronically because such transmissions can be subject to attack, interception, or loss. Also, computer viruses can be distributed and spread rapidly over the Internet and could infiltrate our systems or those of our contracted third parties. Denial of service or other attacks could be launched against us for a variety of purposes, including interfering with our solutions or to create a diversion for other malicious activities. These and other types of actions and attacks could disrupt our delivery of solutions or make them unavailable. Any such actions or attacks against us or our contracted third parties could impugn our reputation, force us to incur significant expenses in remediating the resulting impacts, expose us to uninsured liability, result in the loss of our bank sponsors or our ability to participate in the payment networks, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny and the costs associated with such scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, fines or sanctions, distract our management, or increase our costs of doing business. 46 We and our contracted third parties could be subject to security breaches by hackers. Our encryption of data and other protective measures may not prevent unauthorized access to or use of personal and sensitive data. A breach of a system may subject us to material losses or liability, including payment network fines, assessments and claims for unauthorized purchases with misappropriated credit, debit or card information, impersonation, or other similar fraud claims. A misuse of such data or a cybersecurity breach could harm our reputation and deter clients and their customers from using electronic payments generally and our solutions specifically, thus reducing our revenue. In addition, any such misuse or breach could cause us to incur costs to correct the breaches or failures, expose us to uninsured liability, increase our risk of regulatory scrutiny and the costs associated with such scrutiny, subject us to lawsuits, and result in the imposition of material penalties and fines under state and federal laws or by the payment networks. The insurance coverage we maintain to cover cyber risks may be insufficient to cover all losses. In addition, a significant cybersecurity breach of our systems or communications could result in payment networks prohibiting us from processing transactions on their networks or the loss of our bank sponsors that facilitate our participation in the payment networks, either of which could materially impede our ability to conduct business. Additionally, it is also possible that unauthorized access to sensitive customer and business data may be obtained through inadequate use of security controls by our clients, suppliers or other vendors. We have administrative, technical, and physical security measures in place, and we have policies and procedures in place to both evaluate the security protocols and practices of our vendors and to contractually require service providers to whom we disclose personal data to implement and maintain privacy and security measures. However, we cannot provide assurance that the contractual requirements related to security and privacy that we impose on our service providers will be followed, or that those requirements, or our internal measures, will be adequate to prevent the unauthorized use or disclosure of data. If our privacy protection or security measures or those of the previously mentioned third parties are inadequate or are breached as a result of third-party action, employee or contractor error, malfeasance, malware, phishing, hacking attacks, system error, software bugs or defects in our solutions, trickery, process failure, or otherwise, and, as a result, there is improper disclosure of, or someone obtains unauthorized access to or extract funds or sensitive information, including personally identifiable information, on our systems or our partners systems, or if we suffer a ransomware or advanced persistent threat attack, or if any of the foregoing is reported or perceived to have occurred, our reputation and business could be damaged. Recent high-profile security breaches and related disclosures of personal and sensitive data by large institutions suggest that the risk of such events is significant, even if privacy protection and security measures are implemented and enforced. If personal or sensitive information is lost or improperly disclosed or threatened to be disclosed, we could incur significant costs associated with remediation and the implementation of additional security measures, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees, and engage third-party experts and consultants. In addition, we may incur significant liability and financial loss and may be subject to regulatory scrutiny, investigations, proceedings, and penalties and our reputation may be harmed. Additional risks will emerge to the extent we incorporate artificial intelligence in our solutions. Artificial intelligence algorithms or automated processing of data may be flawed, and datasets may be insufficient or may use third party artificial intelligence with unclear intellectual property rights or interests. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by us or others could subject us to lawsuits, regulatory investigations, legal and financial liability, or reputational harm. Additionally, our use of artificial intelligence may create additional cybersecurity risks or increase cybersecurity risks, including risks of security breaches and incidents. Under our terms of service and our contracts with strategic partners and clients, if there is a breach of payment information that we store, we could be liable for their losses and related expenses. Additionally, if our own confidential business information were improperly disclosed, our business could be materially and adversely affected. A core aspect of our business is the reliability and security of our solutions. Any perceived or actual breach of security, regardless of how it occurs or the extent of the breach, could have a significant impact on our reputation as a trusted brand, cause us to lose existing partners or clients, prevent us from obtaining new partners, clients or customers, require us to expend significant funds to remedy problems caused by breaches and implement measures to prevent further breaches, and expose us to legal risk and potential liability including those resulting from governmental or regulatory investigations, class action litigation, and costs associated with remediation, such as fraud monitoring and forensics. Any actual or perceived security breach at a company providing services to us or our clients could have similar effects. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. 47 Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities can disrupt our business and harm our competitive position. Cyber incidents have been increasing in sophistication and frequency and can include third parties gaining access to employee or customer data using stolen or inferred credentials, computer malware, viruses, spamming, phishing attacks, ransomware, card skimming code, and other deliberate attacks and attempts to gain unauthorized access. Providers of payment and accounts receivable software have frequently been targeted by such attacks and due to the wars in the Ukraine and Gaza and continued political uncertainty involving Russia and Ukraine, and Israel and Hamas, respectively, and potentially other regions of Europe and the Middle East, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cyberattacks that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. In addition, the development and implementation of AI technologies may further increase our exposure to or exacerbate the risks of cyberattacks or other security incidents, particularly where such technologies are exploited by third parties to breach our or other parties systems, including when such technologies are used to target our employees or impersonate members of senior management in order to gain unauthorized access to our systems. Because of this, we face additional cybersecurity challenges, including threats to our own IT infrastructure or those of our clients, our clients customers, and/or third-party providers, that may take a variety of forms ranging from stolen bank accounts, business email compromise, client employee fraud, account takeover, or check fraud, to mega breaches targeted against payment and accounts receivable software, which could be initiated by individual or groups of hackers or sophisticated cyber criminals using any of the methods described above. A cybersecurity incident or breach could result in disclosure of confidential information and intellectual property, or cause production downtimes and compromised data. We have in the past experienced cybersecurity incidents of limited scale, and we may in the future experience other data security incidents or breaches affecting personally identifiable information or other confidential business information. We may be unable to anticipate or prevent techniques used in the future to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems because they change frequently and often are not detected until after an incident has occurred. As we increase our client base and our brand becomes more widely known and recognized, third parties may increasingly seek to compromise our security controls or gain unauthorized access to our sensitive corporate information or our clients (or our clients customers) data. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these evolving threats. Despite the internal control measures, and security procedures we employ to safeguard our systems, we may still be vulnerable to a security breach, intrusion, or loss or theft of personal or sensitive data, which may harm our business, reputation and future financial results. The lost revenue and containment, remediation, investigation, legal and other costs could be significant and may exceed our insurance policy limits or may not be covered by insurance at all. Further, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions and litigation that could result in financial judgments or the payment of settlement amounts and disputes with insurance carriers concerning coverage. In addition, sufficient insurance coverage may become increasingly expensive to maintain as incidents increase globally. Our risk management efforts may not be effective to prevent fraudulent activities by our clients, FlyMates or other third parties, which could expose us to material financial losses and liability and otherwise harm our business. Our software provides payment facilitation solutions for a large number of our clients and their customers. We are responsible for performing KYC reviews of our clients, sanctions screening their customers, and monitoring transactions for fraud. We have been and may continue to be targeted by parties who seek to commit acts of financial fraud using techniques such as stolen identities and bank accounts, compromised business email accounts, employee or insider fraud, account takeover, false applications, and fake invoicing. We may suffer losses from acts of financial fraud committed by our clients, our clients customers and purported customers, our FlyMates and payment partners or third parties. The techniques used to perpetrate fraud are continually evolving and we may not be able to identify all risks created by new solutions or functionality. Our risk management policies, procedures, techniques, and processes may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks to which we are exposed, to enable us to prevent or mitigate the risks we have identified, or to identify additional risks to which we may become subject in the future. Furthermore, our risk management policies, procedures, techniques, and processes may contain errors or our FlyMates or agents may commit mistakes or errors in judgment as a result of which we may suffer large financial losses. The software-driven and highly automated nature of our solutions could enable criminals and those committing fraud to steal significant amounts of money accessing our solutions. As greater numbers of our clients' customers use our solutions, and we serve clients in industries that are at higher risk for fraudulent activity, our exposure to material risk losses from a single client, or from a small number of clients, will increase. In addition, our clients or their customers may suffer losses from acts of financial fraud by third parties posing as us through account takeover, credential harvesting, use of stolen identities and various other techniques, which could harm our reputation, consume significant time of our compliance, security and client relations 48 teams to investigate and remediate, or prompt us to reimburse our clients for such losses in order to maintain client business relationships. Our current business, the changing and uncertain economic, geopolitical and regulatory environment, and our anticipated domestic and international growth will continue to place significant demands on our risk management and compliance efforts. As our business grows and becomes more complex, we will need to continue developing and improving and investing in our risk management infrastructure, policies, procedures, techniques, and processes. As techniques used to perpetrate fraud on our solutions evolve, we may need to modify our solutions to mitigate fraud risks. As our business grows and becomes more complex, we may be less able to forecast and carry appropriate reserves in our books for fraud related losses. Further, these types of fraudulent activities targeting our solutions can also expose us to civil and criminal liability, governmental and regulatory sanctions as well as potentially cause us to be in breach of our contractual obligations to our clients and partners. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly and significantly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, and changing business needs, requirements, or preferences, or if we fail to continue to grow and develop our payments solutions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends in large part on the continued growth and development of our payments solutions. If such activities are limited, restricted, curtailed or degraded in any way, or if we fail to continue to grow and develop our payments solutions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. The market for payments enablement solutions is relatively new and subject to changes in technology, regulatory regimes, industry standards, payment methods, regulations and client and customer needs. Rapid and significant technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing regulations and business needs continue to confront the verticals in which we operate, including developments in digital banking, open banking, mobile financial apps, as well as developments in cryptocurrencies and in tokenization (e.g., replacing sensitive data such as payment card information) with symbols (tokens) to keep the data safe), blockchain, and artificial intelligence, including machine learning. The success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to adapt and respond effectively to these changes through methods which include launching new solutions and incorporating new technologies, such as generative artificial intelligence, into our solutions. The success of any new product and service, or any enhancements or modifications to existing solutions, depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction, and market acceptance of such solutions, enhancements, and modifications. Our engineering and software development teams operate in different locations across the globe (including teams in Spain, Romania, the United States, Israel and Australia), which can create logistical challenges. If we are unable to effectively coordinate with our global technology and development teams to enhance our solutions, add new payment methods or develop new solutions that keep pace with technological and regulatory changes to achieve market acceptance, or if new technologies emerge that are able to deliver competitive solutions that are more effective, secure, convenient or cost effective than our solutions, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be adversely affected. Furthermore, modifications to our existing solutions or technology will increase our technology and development expenses. Any failure of our solutions to operate effectively with existing or future network solutions and technologies could reduce the demand for our solutions, result in clients or clients' customer dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business. We use artificial intelligence in our solutions and services which may result in operational challenges, legal liability, reputational harm, competitive risks and regulatory concerns that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We incorporate AI, including generative AI, into our solutions and services. These technologies are complex and rapidly evolving and building them requires significant investment in infrastructure and personnel with no assurance that we will realize the desired or anticipated benefits. Our competitors may more successfully incorporate AI into their products and achieve higher market acceptance of their AI solutions, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations may also encounter new risks, challenges, and unintended consequences as a result of our use of AI. For example, the issue of intellectual property ownership and license rights surrounding AI technologies has not been fully addressed by U.S. courts or federal or state laws and regulations, and the incorporation of AI technologies into our solutions and services could expose us to intellectual property claims or mandatory compliance with open source software or other license terms. Our use of AI may also lead to novel cybersecurity or privacy risks which may adversely affect our operations and reputation. The European Unions Artificial Intelligence Act, which would apply beyond the European Union's borders, came into force in August 2024, and various other governments have proposed or adopted policy and regulatory responses to oversee the use of AI. Compliance with regulations as well as social and ethical standards relating to AI may require significant research and development costs as well as 49 management and employee attention. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws, regulations or ethical standards could include severe penalties, reputational harm, and slow adoption of AI in our solutions and services. In addition, our business may be disrupted if any of the third-party AI services we use become unavailable due to extended outages or commercially unreasonable terms of service. Changes to payment card networks fees or rules could harm our business. We are required to comply with Mastercard, American Express, and Visa payment card network operating rules and the rules of other regional card (such as China UnionPay or JCB) or payment providers, in connection with our solutions. We have agreed to reimburse our merchant acquirers for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by us. We may also be directly liable to the payment card networks for rule violations. The payment card networks set and interpret the card operating rules. The payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or reinterpret existing rules that we or our processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. For example, the card networks could adopt new rules or reinterpret existing rules to substantially modify how we offer credit card payment methods to our clients, or impose new fees or costs (including demanding a cash reserve from Flywire) that could negatively impact our margins. Card networks also could modify security or fraud detection methodologies that could have a downstream impact on our business, and force us to change our solutions, payment experience or security protocols, which may increase our operating costs. We also may seek to introduce other card-related solutions in the future, which would entail additional operating rules. As a result of any violations of rules, new rules being implemented, or increased fees, we could lose our ability to offer certain cards as a payment method to our clients customers, or such payments could become prohibitively expensive for us or for our clients. Additionally, from time to time, card networks, including Visa and Mastercard, increase the fees that they charge processors. We could attempt to pass these increases along to our clients and their customers, but this strategy might result in the loss of clients to our competitors who do not pass along the increases. If competitive practices prevent us from passing along the higher fees to our clients and their customers in the future, we may have to absorb all or a portion of such increases, which may increase our operating costs and reduce our profit margins. If we are unable to offer credit cards as a payment method to our clients customers, our business would be adversely affected. If we do not or cannot maintain the compatibility of our solution with evolving software solutions used by our clients, or the interoperability of our solutions with those of our third-party payment providers, payment networks and key software vendors, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our solutions integrate with ERP systems, such as Ellucian Company, L.P. in education, Epic Systems Corporation in healthcare, Rezdy Pty Ltd in travel and Oracle Corporation in B2B payments. We automatically synchronize suppliers, clients, client customers, invoices, and payment transactions between our solutions and these systems. This two-way sync eliminates duplicate data entry and provides the basis for managing cash-flow through an integrated solution for accounts receivable, and payments. In addition, we are subject to certain standard terms and conditions with these partners. These partners have broad discretion to change their terms of service and other policies, and those changes may be unfavorable to us. Therefore, we believe that maintaining successful partnerships with these providers is critical to our future success. We also rely on our proprietary global payment network comprised of leading global, regional and local banks and technology and payment partners. If we do not or cannot maintain the interoperability of their products or services or the products or our key software vendors that are integral to our solutions, our business may be materially and adversely affected. These third parties periodically update and change their systems, and although we have been able to adapt our solutions to their evolving needs in the past, there can be no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. In particular, if we are unable to adapt to such changes, we may not be able to utilize these strategic partners and we may lose access to large numbers of clients as a result. If any of the third party software providers change the features of their APIs, discontinue their support of such APIs, restrict our access to their APIs, or alter the terms governing their use in a manner that is adverse to our business, we will not be able to provide synchronization capabilities, which could significantly diminish the value of our solutions and harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we fail to maintain, protect and enhance our brand, our ability to expand our client base will be impaired and our business, operating results, and financial condition may suffer. We believe that further developing, maintaining, protecting and enhancing our brand domestically and on a global basis is important to support the marketing and sale of our existing and future solutions to existing and new clients and to 50 attracting additional and strategic partners. Successfully further developing, maintaining and enhancing our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing and demand generation efforts, our ability to provide reliable and seamless solutions that continue to meet the needs of our clients and their customers at competitive prices, our ability to maintain our clients trust, our ability to continue to develop new functionality, solutions, and our ability to successfully differentiate our solutions from competitive solutions. Our brand promotion activities may not generate client awareness or yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in maintaining and building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our business could suffer. The introduction and promotion of new solutions, as well as the promotion of existing solutions, may be partly dependent on our visibility on third-party advertising platforms, such as Google, LinkedIn, Facebook, or X. Changes in the way these platforms operate or changes in their advertising prices, data use practices or other terms could make the maintenance and promotion of our products and services and our brands more expensive or more difficult. If we are unable to market and promote our brands on third-party platforms effectively, our ability to acquire new clients would be materially harmed. Harm to our brand can arise from many sources, including failure by us or our partners and service providers to satisfy expectations of service and quality; inadequate protection or misuse of sensitive information; fraud committed by third parties using our solutions; compliance failures and claims; litigation, regulatory and other claims; errors caused by us or our partners; and misconduct by our partners, service providers, or other counterparties. In addition, negative statements about us can cause and have caused a decline in the market price of our common stock, divert our managements attention and resources, and could cause other adverse impacts to our business. Partners with whom we maintain relationships could engage in behavior or use their platforms to communicate directly with our clients and their customers in a manner that reflects poorly on our brand and such behavior or communications may adversely affect us. Further, negative publicity or commentary regarding the partners who are, or are perceived to be, affiliated with us may also damage our reputation, even if the negative publicity or commentary is not directly related to us. Any negative publicity about the industries we operate in or our company, the quality and reliability of our solutions, our risk management processes, changes to our products and services, our ability to effectively manage and resolve customer complaints, our privacy, data protection, and information security practices, litigation, regulatory activity, policy positions, and the experience of our clients and their customers with us, our products or services could adversely affect our reputation and the confidence in and use of our solutions. If we do not successfully maintain, protect or enhance our brands, our business could be materially and adversely affected. If we lose key members of our management team or are unable to attract and retain executives and employees we need to support our operations and growth, our business may be harmed. Our success and future growth depend upon the continued services of our management team and other key employees. Our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Massaro, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Rob Orgel, are critical to our overall management, as well as the continued development of our solutions, strategic partnerships, culture, relationships with financial institutions, and strategic direction. From time to time, there may be changes in our management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives and key employees, which could disrupt our business. Our senior management and key employees are employed on an at-will basis. Changes in our senior management may be disruptive to our business, and, if we are unable to manage an orderly transition, our business may be adversely affected. We currently have key person insurance on our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Massaro, but not for any other members of our management team. Certain of our key employees have been with us for a long period of time and have fully vested stock options or other long-term equity incentives that are or may become valuable and are publicly tradable subject to Rule 144 limitations, which may reduce the incentive for each of these key employees to remain at our Company. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees or that we would be able to timely replace members of our senior management or other key employees should any of them depart. The loss of our Chief Executive Officer, or our President and Chief Operating Officer, or one or more of our senior management, or other key employees could harm our business, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. The failure to attract and retain additional qualified personnel could prevent us from executing our business strategy and growth plans. To execute our business strategy, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for executive officers, software developers, compliance and risk management personnel and other key employees in our industry and locations is intense and increasing, especially in the U.S., where wage inflation has been increasing. We compete with 51 many other companies for software developers with high levels of experience in designing, developing, and managing payment systems, as well as for skilled legal and compliance and risk operations professionals. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we do and can frequently offer such personnel substantially greater compensation than we can offer. In addition, immigration policy and regulatory changes may also affect our ability to hire, mobilize, or retain some of our global talent. If we fail to identify, attract, develop and integrate new personnel, or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our growth prospects would be adversely affected. If we cannot maintain our company culture as we grow, our success and our business may be harmed. We believe our culture has been a key contributor to our success to date and that the critical nature of the solutions that we provide promotes a sense of greater purpose and fulfillment in our FlyMates. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel, which is critical to our growth, and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture. If we fail to maintain our culture, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Our sales cycles may be long and vary. We devote significant resources to establish relationships with new clients and deepen relationships with existing clients. The sales cycles of our solutions tend to vary depending on the client industry sector which makes forecasting more complex and uncertain. In addition, sales and sale cycles may be based in part or entirely on factors, or perceived factors, not directly related to the features of our solutions, including, among others, a client or prospective clients projection of business growth, uncertainty about economic conditions (including as a result of heightened inflationary conditions, regulatory concerns, recession concerns, priorities of the U.S. presidential administration and related changes in laws, regulations or policies, and the escalation of hostilities between Russia and Ukraine, and Israel and Hamas), capital budgets, anticipated cost savings from the implementation of our solution, potential preference for internally-developed software solutions, perceptions about our business and solutions, more favorable terms offered by potential competitors, and previous technology investments. Mid-market and large enterprises tend to have more complex operating environments than smaller businesses, making it often more difficult and time-consuming for us to demonstrate the value of our solutions to prospective clients. The decision to use our solutions may also be an enterprise-wide decision, and require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our solutions, which may result in additional time, effort, and money spent on our sales cycle without any assurance that our efforts will be successful in generating any sales. Often, major hospital systems and national or state higher education systems will solicit service offers by issuing RFPs, which are generally a time- and resource-intensive process, with no assurances of being selected as a vendor after the RFP process is completed. Additionally, large enterprises typically have longer implementation cycles, especially hospital and education systems, require greater product functionality and scalability and a broader range of services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks, sometimes require longer testing periods that delay general availability of our solutions, and expect greater payment flexibility from vendors. All of these factors can add further risk to business conducted with these clients. If we fail to realize an expected sale from a large end-client in a particular quarter or at all, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we may face unexpected deployment challenges with enterprise clients. It may be difficult to deploy our software solutions if a client has unexpected database, hardware or software technology issues, or if a client insists on a more customized or unique solution that is time intensive or that we have little prior experience in delivering. Decisions on timing of deployments may also be impacted by cost and availability of personnel. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation could cause clients to reject our solutions or lead to the delay or non-receipt of future orders, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We typically incur significant upfront costs in our client relationships, and if we are unable to develop or grow these relationships over time, we are unlikely to recover these costs and our operating results may suffer. We devote significant resources to establish relationships with new clients and deepen relationships with existing clients. Our sales cycle for our solutions can be variable, typically ranging from three to nine months from initial contact to contract execution. However, there is potential for our sales cycle to extend beyond three to nine months. During the period of our sales cycle, our efforts involve educating our clients about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our solutions. Our operating results depend in substantial part on our ability to deliver a successful client experience and persuade our clients to grow their relationship with us over time. As we expect to grow rapidly, our client acquisition costs 52 could outpace our build-up of recurring revenue, and we may be unable to reduce our total operating costs through economies of scale such that we are unable to achieve or maintain profitability. Any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays, including delays caused by factors outside of our control, could cause our operating results to suffer. If we fail to offer high-quality client support, or if our support is more expensive than anticipated, our business and reputation could suffer. Our clients and their customers rely on our support services to resolve issues and realize the full benefits provided by our solutions. High-quality support is also important for the expansion of the use of our solutions with existing clients and their customers. We provide multilingual support over chat, email or via telephone. The number of our clients, and the number of their customers utilizing our solutions, has grown significantly and such growth, as well as any future growth, will put additional pressure on our client service organization. If we do not help our clients and their customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, or if our support personnel or methods of providing support are insufficient to meet the needs of our clients and their customers, our ability to retain clients and their customers and acquire new clients and customers could suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential clients could be harmed. Providing an exceptional client experience requires significant time and resources from our client service team. Therefore, failure to scale our client service organization adequately may adversely impact our business results and financial condition. In addition, as we continue to operate and grow our operations and continue to expand to new jurisdictions, we need to be able to provide efficient client service that meets our clients needs globally at scale. In geographies where we sell through our channel partners, if we are unable to provide a high quality client experience tailored to the language and culture of the applicable jurisdiction, our business operations and reputation may suffer. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings, sales of our solutions, and fees. We cannot be certain if our operations will continue to generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support our business, which may require us to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to invest in future growth opportunities, which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. If we incur additional debt, the debt holders would have rights senior to holders of common stock to make claims on our assets, and the terms of any debt could restrict our operations, including our ability to pay dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in the future will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future issuances of debt or equity securities. As a result, our stockholders bear the risk of future issuances of debt or equity securities reducing the value of our common stock and diluting their interests. Our business could be harmed as a result of the risks associated with our acquisitions. As part of our business strategy, we have in the past and intend to continue to seek to acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies that could complement or expand our business, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities by providing us with additional intellectual property, client relationships and geographic coverage. The pursuit of potential acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses in identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not such acquisitions are completed. In addition, we can provide no assurances that we will be able to find and identify desirable acquisition targets or that we will be successful in entering into a definitive agreement with any one target. In addition, even if we reach a definitive agreement with a target, there is no assurance that we will complete any future acquisition or if we do acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate them effectively following the acquisition or effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition. Any acquisitions we undertake or have recently completed, including the acquisitions of Sertifi in February 2025, Invoiced in August 2024, StudyLink in November 2023 and Cohort Go in July 2022, will likely be accompanied by business risks which may include, among other things: the effect of the acquisition on our financial results, strategic position or reputation; 53 the failure of an acquisition to result in expected benefits, which may include benefits relating to enhanced revenues, technology, human resources, costs savings, operating efficiencies, goodwill and other synergies; the difficulty, cost and management effort required to integrate the acquired businesses, including costs and delays in implementing common systems and procedures and costs and delays caused by communication difficulties; the assumption of certain known or unknown liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation-related liabilities; the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses, the increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt; a lack of experience in new markets, new geographies, new business culture, products or technologies or an initial dependence on unfamiliar distribution partners; the possibility that we will pay more than the value we derive from the acquisition; the impairment of relationships with our clients, clients' customers, partners or suppliers or those of the acquired business; and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired business. These factors could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition to the risks commonly encountered in the acquisition of a business or assets as described above, we may also experience risks relating to the challenges and costs of closing a transaction. The risks described above may be exacerbated as a result of managing multiple acquisitions at once. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our solutions and core payment platform could harm our business. Our systems and payment platform and those of our service providers and partners have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, insider threats, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, and other natural disasters, including events resulting from climate change, war or other military conflict, including an escalation of the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, and Israel and Hamas, respectively, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, computer viruses or other malware, or other events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all possible outcomes or events. In addition, as a provider of payments solutions targeted to highly regulated clients in industries such as education and healthcare, we are subject to heightened scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity, resiliency and disaster recovery plans, and more rigorous testing of such plans, which are costly and time-consuming to implement, and may divert our resources from other business priorities. A prolonged interruption in the availability, speed, or functionality of our solutions, payment platform or payment methods could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our solutions could cause current or potential clients and their customers to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid or reduce the use of our solutions, and could permanently harm our reputation and brand. Moreover, if any system or platform failure or similar event results in damages to our clients or their customers and business partners, these clients, customers or partners could seek significant compensation or contractual penalties from us for their losses, and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. We have undertaken and continue to make certain technology and network upgrades and redundancies which are designed to improve the reliability of our solutions and payment platform. These efforts are costly and time-consuming, involve significant technical risk and may divert our resources from new features and solutions, and there can be no guarantee that these efforts will succeed. Because we are a regulated payments institution in certain jurisdictions, frequent or persistent interruptions could lead to regulatory scrutiny, significant fines and penalties, and mandatory and costly changes to our business practices, and ultimately could cause us to lose existing licenses that we need to operate or prevent or delay us from obtaining additional licenses that may be required for our business. 54 We use public cloud hosting with AWS and depend on AWS ability to protect their data centers against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts, and similar events. Our operations depend on protecting the cloud infrastructure hosted by AWS by maintaining the configuration, architecture, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and transmitted by third-party internet service providers. In limited occasions, we have experienced service disruptions in the past, and may experience interruptions or delays in our solutions in the future. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the data storage services we use. Although we have disaster recovery plans that utilize various data storage locations, any incident affecting our data storage or internet service providers infrastructure that may be caused by fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters, war or other military conflict, including an escalation of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, terrorist attacks, negligence, and other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our solutions. Additionally, in July 2024, a software update by CrowdStrike Holdings, Inc., a cybersecurity technology company, caused widespread crashes of Windows systems into which it was integrated, including certain Windows systems used by our vendors and customers. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not experienced any significant impacts as a result of the CrowdStrike software update, but we could in the future experience similar software-induced interruptions to our operations. Any prolonged service disruption affecting our solutions could damage our reputation with current and potential clients, expose us to liability, cause us to lose clients, or otherwise harm our business. In the event of damage or interruption to our solutions, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. In addition, we may experience financial losses due to a number of factors, including: third party disruptions, including potential outages at network providers and other suppliers; supply chain impacts, including shortages of goods, raw materials, increased prices or delays in shipment; challenges to the availability and reliability of our network due to changes to normal operations; increased cyber and payment fraud risk, as cybercriminals attempt DDoS related attacks, phishing scams and other disruptive actions, given the shift to online banking, e-commerce and other online activity, as well as more FlyMates working remotely; and system failures or outages, including any potential disruptions due to significantly increased global demand on certain cloud-based systems, could compromise our ability to provide our solutions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business or delay our financial reporting. Such failures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our solutions and payment platform are accessed by many of our clients and their customers, often at the same time. As we continue to expand the number of clients that we serve and solutions that we are able to offer to our clients and their customers, we may not be able to scale our technology to accommodate the increased capacity requirements, which may result in interruptions or delays in service. In addition, the failure of data centers, internet service providers, or other third-party service providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions or delays in access to our solutions or platform or impede our ability to grow our business and scale our operations. If our third-party infrastructure service agreements are terminated, or there is a lapse of service, interruption of internet service provider connectivity, or damage to data centers, we could experience interruptions in access to our solutions as well as delays and additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. We also rely on components, applications, and services supplied by third parties, including payment service providers and merchant acquirer partners which subjects us to risks. If these third parties experience operational interference or disruptions, breach their agreements with us, fail to perform their obligations and meet our expectations, or experience a cybersecurity incident, our operations could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which could result in client dissatisfaction, regulatory scrutiny, and damage to our reputation and brand, and materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, we are continually improving and upgrading our systems and technologies. Implementation of new systems and technologies is complex, expensive, and time-consuming. If we fail to timely and successfully implement new systems and technologies, or improvements or upgrades to existing information systems and technologies, or if such systems and technologies do not operate as intended, this could have an adverse impact on our business, internal controls (including internal controls over financial reporting), results of operations, and financial condition. 55 Risks Related to Our Legal, Regulatory and Compliance Landscape We handle cross-border and domestic payments and plan to expand our solutions to new clients, to accept and settle payments in new countries and in new currencies, and to increase our global network to allow us to offer local and alternative payment methods, creating a variety of operational challenges; additionally, our domestic and international operations subject us to increased risks, which could harm our business. Our business is subject to risks inherent in conducting business globally, including cross-border payments and domestic payments in the United States and certain other markets. Our handling of domestic and cross-border payments to our clients generates a significant portion of our revenues, with a substantial portion of such revenues coming from payments processed from Asia (including India, China and Korea). We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of total net revenues for the foreseeable future, and that in particular, the proportion of our revenue from Asia will continue to increase. Current events, including the potential implementation of tariffs, the possibility of renegotiated trade deals and international tax law treaties, priorities of the U.S. presidential administration and related changes in laws, regulations or policies, United States-China and Canada-India diplomatic and trade friction, heightened tensions between China and Taiwan and the escalation of the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine, and Israel and Hamas, respectively, create a level of uncertainty, and potentially increased complexity, for multinational companies. These uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business and our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, international operations are subject to various risks which could have a material adverse effect on those operations or our business as a whole, including: foreign currency exchange rate volatility; adverse economic conditions in the United States and globally, including economic slowdown, heightened interest rates, inflation, recession concerns and the disruption, volatility and tightening of credit and capital markets; risks related to compliance with multiple complex, potentially conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; local licensing and reporting obligations or the imposition of currency controls which make it impossible or increasingly difficult for our clients to collect payments from international customers; local regulatory and legal obligations related to privacy, data protection, data localization, and user protections; the need to localize our solutions, including offering clients and their customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our solutions to local preferences, in markets in which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; the impact of government sanctions on our ability to offer services in a region, such as sanctions issued by the U.S. and other countries against Russia; difficulties in developing, staffing, and managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; limitations on the repatriation of cash, including imposition or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; diplomatic friction, political or social unrest, war or other military conflict, including an escalation of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and between Israel and Hamas, respectively, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; natural disasters, global pandemics such as COVID-19 or other public health emergencies, acts of war, and terrorism; 56 compliance with U.S. laws and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the U.K. Bribery Act, and other local anti-corruption laws; compliance with U.S. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; retaliatory tariffs and restrictions limiting free movement of currency and an unfavorable trade environment, including as a result of political conditions and changes in the laws, regulations or policies in the United States and elsewhere and as described in more detail below; antitrust and competition regulations; expanded compliance with potentially conflicting and changing laws of taxing jurisdictions where we conduct business and applicable U.S. tax laws as they relate to international operations, the complexity and adverse consequences of such tax laws, and potentially adverse tax consequences due to changes in such tax laws or levels of enforcement, including the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which includes a minimum corporate tax which could result in an additional tax liability in a given year; expected or actual extended federal government shutdowns or the priorities of the U.S. presidential administration and related changes in laws, regulations or policies; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Foreign operations may also expose us to political, social, regulatory and economic uncertainties affecting a country or region, or to political hostility to investments by foreign or private equity investors. Many financial markets are not as developed or as efficient as those in the United States, and as a result, liquidity may be reduced and price volatility may be higher in those markets than in more developed markets. The legal and regulatory environment may also be different, particularly with respect to bankruptcy and reorganization, and may afford us less protection as a creditor than we may be entitled to under U.S. law. Financial accounting standards and practices may differ, and there may be less publicly available information in respect of such companies. Restrictions imposed or actions taken by foreign governments could include exchange controls, seizure or nationalization of foreign deposits and adoption of other governmental restrictions which adversely affect the prices of securities or the ability to repatriate profits. For instance, we process a substantial amount of payments from China. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of the Renminbi the currency of China, into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. The Chinese government may at its discretion further restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions, or impose regulatory requirements that may require modifications to our business model for our clients' payors located in China. In addition, income received by us from sources in some countries may be reduced by withholding and other taxes. Any such taxes paid by us will reduce the net income or return from such investments. While we will take these factors into consideration in making investment decisions, including when hedging positions, no assurance can be given that we will be able to fully avoid these risks or generate sufficient risk-adjusted returns. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws, rules and regulations that apply to our cross-border operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or FlyMates; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our FlyMates, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks are inherent in our cross-border operations and expansion, may increase our costs of doing business internationally, and could harm our business. Payments and other financial services-related regulations and oversight are material to our business. Our failure to comply could materially harm our business. The local, state, and federal laws, rules, regulations, licensing schemes, and industry standards in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate that govern our business include, or may in the future include, those relating to consumer finance and consumer protection, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange, payments services (such as money transmission, payment processing, and settlement services), AML and CFT, escheatment, international sanctions regimes, and compliance with the PCI DSS. These laws, rules, regulations, licensing schemes, 57 and standards are enforced by multiple authorities and governing bodies in the United States, including the Department of the Treasury, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the SEC, CFPB, the Federal Trade Commission, self-regulatory organizations, and numerous state and local regulators and law enforcement agencies. Our clients also have their own regulatory obligations, and they expect our solutions to comply with the regulatory requirements that are applicable to their businesses. For additional discussion about the regulatory environment that we and our clients operate in, please see BusinessRegulation and Industry Standards. As we expand into new jurisdictions, the number of foreign laws, rules, regulations, licensing schemes, and standards governing our business will expand as well. In addition, as our business and solutions continue to develop and expand, we may become subject to additional laws, rules, regulations, licensing schemes, and standards. We may not always be able to accurately predict the scope or applicability of certain laws, rules, regulations, licensing schemes, or standards to our business, particularly as we expand into new areas of operations, which could have a significant negative effect on our existing business and our ability to pursue future plans. Certain of our subsidiaries are registered with FinCEN. Our subsidiary Flywire Global Corp. has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or the statutory equivalent) in 45 U.S. jurisdictions, and is in the process of applying for a license in, to the best of our knowledge, all U.S. states and territories where such licensure or registration is required in order to be able to offer additional business lines in the future. As a licensed money transmitter, we are (and in the states where we are awaiting licensure, will be) subject to obligations and restrictions with respect to the investment of client funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, minimum capital requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies concerning various aspects of our business. Evaluation of our compliance efforts, as well as the questions of whether and to what extent our solutions are considered money transmission, are matters of regulatory interpretation and could change over time. In addition, there are substantial costs involved in maintaining and renewing our licenses, certifications, and approvals, and we could be subject to fines or other enforcement action if we are found to violate disclosure, reporting, AML, CFT, capitalization, corporate governance, or other requirements of such licenses. If we fail to predict how a U.S. law or regulation or a law or regulation from another jurisdiction in which we operate will be applied to us, we could be subject to additional licensure requirements and/or administrative enforcement actions. This could also require changes to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business or potential product changes, and require us to pay fines, penalties, or compensation to clients for past non-compliance. At the federal level, we are registered as a MSB with FinCEN. For additional discussion of the requirements of our MSB registration, please see Business Regulation and Industry Standards. At the state level, we rely on various exemptions from state money transmitter licensing requirements, and regulators may find that we have violated applicable laws or regulations because we are not licensed or registered as a money transmitter in all of the U.S. jurisdictions we service. We believe, based on our business model, that we have valid exemptions from licensure under various state money transmission laws, either expressly as a payment processor or agent of the payee, or pursuant to common law as an agent of the payee. While we believe we have defensible arguments in support of our positions under the state money transmission statutes, we have not expressly obtained confirmation of such positions from the state banking departments who administer the state money transmission statutes. It is possible that certain state banking departments may determine that our activities are not exempt. Any determination that we are in fact required to be licensed under the money transmission statute of a state where we are not yet licensed may require substantial expenditures of time and money to remediate and could lead to liability in the nature of penalties or fines, costs, legal fees, reputational damage or other negative consequences. We could be required to cease operations in some or all of the U.S. jurisdictions we service and where we are not yet licensed, which determination would have a materially adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. In the past, certain competitors have been found to violate laws and regulations related to money transmission, and they have been subject to fines and other penalties by regulatory authorities. The adoption of new money transmitter or MSB statutes in jurisdictions or changes in regulators interpretation of existing state and federal money transmitter or MSB statutes or regulations could subject us to new registration or licensing requirements. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or maintain any such licenses in all of the jurisdictions we service, and, even if we were able to do so, there could be substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business. These factors could impose substantial additional costs, involve considerable delay to the development or provision of our solutions, require significant and costly operational changes, or prevent us from providing our solutions in any given market. The regulatory environment in which we operate is subject to constant change, and new regulations could make aspects of our business as currently conducted no longer possible. As a result of the regulations applicable to our business, we could be subject to investigations and resulting liability, including governmental fines, restrictions on our business, or other sanctions, and we could be forced to cease conducting 58 certain aspects of our business with residents of certain jurisdictions, be forced to change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, or be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals. For example, because a majority of voters in the U.K. approved an exit from the E.U. (commonly referred to as Brexit), we were required to obtain a license from a member state of the EEA which would allow us to continue to provide our solutions to clients located in the EEA under a principle known as passporting. We were able to obtain a license as an authorized payment institution from the Bank of Lithuania in September 2019 and subsequently obtained the right to passport our solutions to other EEA member states. Government agencies may impose new or additional rules on money transmission, which may increase our costs of doing business, including, but not limited to regulations that: prohibit, restrict, and/or impose taxes or fees on money transmission transactions in, to or from certain countries or with certain governments, individuals, and entities; impose additional client identification and client due diligence requirements; impose additional reporting or recordkeeping requirements, or require enhanced transaction monitoring; limit the types of entities capable of providing money transmission services, or impose additional licensing or registration requirements; impose minimum capital or other financial requirements; limit or restrict the revenue that may be generated from money transmission, including revenue from the transaction value associated with the payment method used by our clients customers and platform-related fees for access to our solutions and invoice and payment plan fees; require enhanced disclosures to our money transmission clients or their customers; require the principal amount of money transmission transactions originated in a country to be invested in that country or held in trust until paid; limit the number or principal amount of money transmission transactions that may be sent to or from a jurisdiction, whether by an individual or in the aggregate; and restrict or limit our ability to process transactions using centralized databases, for example, by requiring that transactions be processed using a database maintained in a particular country or region. We are subject to governmental laws and requirements regarding economic and trade sanctions, AML and CFT that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to criminal or civil liability if we violate them. We are currently required to comply with U.S. economic and trade sanctions administered by OFAC and we have processes in place designed to comply with the OFAC regulations as well as similar requirements in the foreign jurisdictions in which we already operate. As part of our compliance efforts, we scan our clients and their customers against watch lists promulgated by OFAC and certain other international agencies. Our application can be accessed from nearly anywhere in the world, and if our service is accessed from a sanctioned country or otherwise accessed or used in violation of applicable trade and economic sanctions, we could be subject to fines or other enforcement actions. In the course of enhancing our sanctions compliance function, we initiated an internal review that identified issues related to our compliance with sanctions, including payments that may have originated from sanctioned jurisdictions or sanctioned persons. We have made voluntary submissions to OFAC to report the apparent violations and to provide supplemental information. Flywire is currently engaging with OFAC to resolve these matters. Although the internal investigation completed to date suggests that any loss incurred as a result of this matter would not be material to our business, if OFAC ultimately concludes any violation has occurred in connection with these or other transactions, it could result in penalties, fines, costs, and restrictions on our ability to do business, which could also harm our operating results. We are also subject to various AML and CFT laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, our involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal or terrorist activities. In the United States, most of our solutions are subject to AML laws and regulations, including the BSA, and similar laws and regulations. The BSA, among other things, requires MSBs to develop and implement risk-based AML programs, to report large cash transactions and 59 suspicious activity, and in some cases, to collect and maintain information about clients who use their services and maintain other transaction records. Regulators and third-party auditors have identified gaps in how similar businesses have implemented AML programs, and we could likewise be subject to significant fines, penalties, inquiries, audits, investigations, enforcement actions, and criminal and civil liability if our AML program is found to be insufficient by a regulator. Our business operations in other parts of the world such as the U.K., Lithuania, Canada, Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Indonesia and Singapore are subject to similar laws and requirements. Regulators in the United States and globally continue to increase their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations, which may require us to further revise or expand our compliance program, including the procedures we use to verify the identity of our clients and to monitor transactions on our system, including payments to persons outside of the United States. Regulators regularly re-examine the transaction volume thresholds at which we must obtain and keep applicable records or verify identities of clients, and any change in such thresholds could result in greater costs for compliance. Similarly, as a condition to doing business with us, our banking and other strategic partners also impose ongoing obligations on us related to AML and CFT and sanctions screening. Any failure on our part to maintain the necessary processes and policies to comply with these regulations and requirements, or to adapt our processes and policies to changes in laws, would subject us to penalties, fines, or loss of key relationships which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Furthermore, government sanctions imposed with respect to Russia's invasion of Ukraine in early 2022 are impacting our ability to offer our services in the region, and additional sanctions could be imposed in the future. Further instability or tension in Russia, Ukraine, and the surrounding region could also cause us to adjust our operating model, which would increase our costs of operations. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations, particularly those related to privacy, data protection, and information security, could harm our business. Compliance with such laws could also result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit sales of our solutions. Our clients and their customers store personal and business information, financial information and other sensitive information through our solutions. In addition, we collect, store, and process personal and business information and other data from and about actual and prospective clients, their customers, our FlyMates and our service providers and other business partners, as well as their personnel. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (FTC), and various state, local, and foreign agencies. Our data handling is also subject to contractual obligations and industry standards. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use, and storage of data relating to individuals and businesses, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising, and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data, including the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Gramm Leach Bliley Act, FERPA, HIPAA, and the now in question E.U.-U.S. and SwissU.S. Privacy Shield protections, as well as state laws relating to privacy and data security. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. For example, California enacted the CCPA, which took effect on January 1, 2020 and became enforceable by the California Attorney General on July 1, 2020, and broadly defines personal information. The CCPA creates new individual privacy rights for consumers (as that term is broadly defined) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling personal data of consumers or households. The CCPA requires covered companies to provide certain disclosures to California consumers about its data collection, use and sharing practices, provide such consumers with ways to opt-out of certain sales or transfers of personal information, provides for civil penalties for violations, and allows for a new private right of action for data breaches that has resulted in an increase in data breach litigation. It remains unclear, however, how the CCPA will be interpreted. As currently written, it will likely impact our business activities and exemplifies the vulnerability of our business to not only cyber threats but also the evolving regulatory environment related to personal data and protected health information. On August 24, 2022, the California Attorney General announced the entry of a final judgment enforcement action resulting in a fine and settlement under the CCPA, as the defendant was ordered to pay a $1.2 million penalty and, among other things, implement a monitoring and reporting program to demonstrate its ongoing compliance with the CCPA. Additionally, the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA), which was passed in November 2020 and became effective on January 1, 2023, imposed additional obligations on companies covered by the legislation and significantly modified the CCPA, including by expanding consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information. The CPRA also created a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. The 60 effects of the CCPA and the CPRA are potentially significant and may require us to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply and increase our potential exposure to regulatory enforcement and/or litigation. The laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security are evolving, can be subject to significant change, and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. The CCPA, in particular, has prompted a number of proposals for new federal and state-level privacy legislation, which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. Several states in the U.S. have proposed or enacted laws that contain obligations similar to the CCPA and CPRA that have taken effect or will take effect in coming years. The U.S. federal government also is contemplating federal privacy legislation. The effects of recently proposed or enacted legislation potentially are far-reaching. Such legislation may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk, require additional investment of resources in compliance programs, impact strategies and the availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies. Many of the foreign jurisdictions where we or our clients operate or conduct business, including the E.U., have laws and regulations dealing with the collection, use, storage, and disclosure and other handling (collectively, processing) of personal information, which in some cases are more restrictive than those in the U.S. In addition to regulating the processing of personal information within the relevant jurisdictions, these legal requirements often also apply to the processing of personal information outside these jurisdictions, where there is some specified link to the relevant jurisdiction. For example, we have multiple offices in Europe and serves clients and their customers throughout the E.U., where the GDPR went into effect in 2018. The GDPR, which is also the law in Iceland, Norway, Liechtenstein, andto a large degreethe U.K., has an extensive global reach and imposes robust obligations relating to the processing of personal information, including documentation requirements, greater control for data subjects (e.g., the right to be forgotten and data portability), security requirements, notice requirements, restrictions on sharing personal information, data governance obligations, data breach notification requirements, and restrictions on the export of personal information to most other countries. The solutions that we currently offer subject us to many of these laws and regulations in many of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate or conduct business, and these laws and regulations may be modified or subject to new or different interpretations, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Legal developments have created compliance uncertainty regarding some transfers of personal information from the U.K. and EEA to locations where we or our clients operate or conduct business, including the United States and potentially Singapore, particularly with respect to cross-border transfers. Under the GDPR, such transfers can take place only if certain conditions apply or if certain data transfer mechanisms are in place. In July 2020, the Court of Justice of the E.U. ruled in its Schrems II decision (C-311/18), that the Privacy Shield, a transfer mechanism used by thousands of companies to transfer data between those jurisdictions and United States (and also used by us), was invalid and could no longer be used due to the strength of United States surveillance laws. In September 2020, the Federal Data Protection and Information Commissioner of Switzerland (where the law has a similar restriction on the export of personal information) issued an opinion concluding that the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Framework does not provide an adequate level of protection for data transfers from Switzerland to the United States pursuant to Switzerlands Federal Act on Data Protection. We and our clients continue to use alternative transfer strategies, including SCCs, while the authorities interpret the Schrems II decision and the validity of alternative data transfer mechanisms. The SCCs, though previously approved by the European Commission, have faced challenges in European courts (including being called into question in the Schrems II decision), and may be further challenged, suspended or invalidated for transfers to some or all countries. For example, guidance regarding Schrems II issued by the European Data Protection Board (which is comprised of representatives from every E.U. member states top data protection authority) have cast serious doubt on the validity of SCCs for most transfers of personal information to the United States. At present, there are few if any viable alternatives to the Privacy Shield and the SCCs, so such developments may necessitate further expenditures on local infrastructure, changes to internal business processes, changes to clients and clients' customer facing solutions, or may otherwise affect or restrict our sales and operations. On June 4, 2021, the European Commission released the final Implementing Decision on SCCs (New SCCs) for the transfer of personal data from the E.U. to third countries such as the US. The New SCCs will repeal and replace the existing SCCs (dating from 2001, 2004 and 2010) and address the entry into force of the GDPR) and the July 2020 decision of the CJEU in Schrems II, which invalidated the E.U.-U.S. Privacy Shield. The New SCCs broadly follow the draft implementing decision on standard contractual clauses (Draft SCCs) issued by the European Commission on November 12, 2020, but there are some material differences. The Draft SCCs significant and extensive new requirements for data importers that act as controllers (for example, obligations to give notice to data subjects and to notify personal data breaches to EU authorities) remain, but have been aligned more closely with the GDPR requirements. While the New 61 SCCs are not immediately in force, compliance with them will be required for new transfer agreements entered into from late September 2021. SCCs then in effect were required to be replaced with the New SCCs by December 27, 2022. On July 10, 2023, the European Commission formally approved the new EU-U.S. Data Privacy Framework (the Framework), under which European entities will now be able to transfer personal data to Framework participants in the U.S. without having to put in place additional data protection safeguards or use the Standard Contractual Clauses for data transfers. We are in the process of evaluating how we may self-certify as a participating organization with the U.S. Department of Commerce. E.U. data protection authorities have the power to impose administrative fines for violations of the GDPR of up to a maximum of 20 million or 4% of a corporate familys total worldwide global turnover for the preceding fiscal year, whichever is higher. Such penalties are in addition to any civil litigation claims by clients, data subjects or other third parties. We believe that the solutions that we currently offer subject us to the GDPR and other laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security, and these may be modified or subject to new or different interpretations in the future. We will need to take steps to address compliance obligations in this rapidly evolving legal environment, but we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement changes in a timely manner or without significant disruption to our business, or that such steps will be effective, and we may face the risk of liability and loss of business. In addition, further to the U.K. exit from the E.U. on January 31, 2020, the GDPR ceased to apply in the U.K. at the end of the transition period on December 31, 2020. However, as of January 1, 2021, the U.K.s European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018 incorporated the GDPR (as it existed on December 31, 2020 but subject to certain U.K. specific amendments) into U.K. law (referred to as the U.K. GDPR). The U.K. GDPR and the U.K. Data Protection Act 2018 set out the U.K.s data protection regime, which is independent from but aligned to the E.U.s data protection regime. Non-compliance with the U.K. GDPR may result in monetary penalties of up to 17.5 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is higher. Like the GDPR, the U.K. GDPR restricts personal data transfers outside the U.K. to countries not regarded by the U.K. as providing adequate protection (this means that personal data transfers from the U.K. to the EEA remain free flowing). On June 28, 2021, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision under the GDPR, thereby recognizing that the U.K.s data protection system continues to provide the same protections with respect to personal data as when it was an EU member state, and enabling the continued exchange of personal data between the E.U. and the U.K. The adequacy decision facilitates the implementation of the E.U.-U.K. Trade Cooperation Agreement, which foresaw the need for bilateral data flow and continued cooperation. The adequacy decision does, however, include a sunset clause, limiting its duration to four years, at which point the European Commission will need to once again review the safeguards in place in the U.K.s post-Brexit legal system and decide if the adequacy decision may be renewed. This lack of clarity on future U.K. laws and regulations and their interaction with E.U. laws and regulations could add legal risk, uncertainty, complexity and cost to our handling of E.U. personal information and our privacy and data security compliance programs. It is possible that over time the U.K. Data Protection Act 2018 could become less aligned with the GDPR, which could require us to implement different compliance measures for the U.K. and the E.U. and result in potentially enhanced compliance obligations for E.U. personal data. In Asia, there has been an increase in both regulation and enforcement of privacy laws. The Act on Protection of Personal Information originally enacted in June 2020 by the Japanese government, was amended and came into effect on April 1, 2022 (Amended APPI). Since the passage of the Amended APPI, a number of implementing regulations and supporting documents have been released, addressing the requirements for transferring personal data outside Japan, notifying security breaches and creating pseudonymous information exempt from certain obligations under the Amended APPI. We have taken steps to address compliance obligations that apply to us under the Amended APPI, but cannot assure you that such steps will be effective, and we may face the risk of increased costs, liability and loss of business. China (home to the most online users in the world) passed its DSL and its PIPL in 2021. The DSL applies to a wide range of data processing activities including, but not limited to, processing personal information. With extraterritorial scope and severe fines and penalties, these laws are set to impose an increasingly complex and comprehensive legal framework for processing personal information when doing business in China. The PIPL is enforced and administered by the Cyberspace Administration of China and relevant state and local government departments. The law draws from the GDPR, with heavy penalties up to the greater of 5% of the previous years revenue (possibly global) or $7.7 million. Chinese authorities have demonstrated a willingness to impose significant fines for violations of PIPL and other privacy laws, as evidenced by enforcement actions against Alibaba Group Holding Ltd and Didi Global Inc. in 2022. 62 As a reaction to data security concerns, in 2022, the Australian parliament approved a bill to amend the country's privacy legislation, significantly increasing the maximum penalties for companies and data controllers who suffer large-scale data breaches to the greater of: (i) AU$50 million, (ii) three times the value of any benefit obtained through the misuse of information, and (iii) 30% of a company's adjusted turnover in the relevant period. Previously, the penalty for severe data exposures was AU$2.22 million, considered by the current parliament to be wholly inadequate to incentivize companies to improve their data security mechanisms. The Office of the Australian Information Commissioner has new regulatory tools and flexibility that should, together with an ongoing focus on funding enforcement, see a more proactive regulator with capacity and capability to investigate and litigate more privacy incidents in Australia. We have taken steps to address compliance obligations that apply to us under the Amended APPI, the DSL, the PIPL and applicable Australian regulations, but cannot assure you that such steps will be effective, and we may face the risk of increased costs, liability and loss of business. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that, if adopted, may apply to us, or which clients or clients' customers may require us to adopt. Because the interpretation and application of privacy and data protection laws, regulations, rules, and other standards are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws, rules, regulations, and other actual or alleged legal obligations, such as contractual or self-regulatory obligations, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the functionality of our solutions. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our software, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal, or contractual obligations, industry standards, or regulatory guidance relating to privacy or data security, may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties, or adverse publicity, and could cause our clients and partners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations, and industry standards relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, consumer communications, and information security, and we cannot determine the impact such future laws, regulations, and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards, and other obligations or any changed interpretation of existing laws or regulations could impair our ability to develop and market new functionality and maintain and grow our client base and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing, or disclosure of data, or additional requirements for express or implied consent of our clients, partners, or end users for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to incur additional costs or modify our solutions, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new functionality. If we are not able to comply with these laws or regulations, or if we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain solutions, which would negatively affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise adversely affect the growth of our business. Furthermore, any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our operating results. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business. We are subject to the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, U.S. domestic bribery laws, and other anti-corruption laws. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public sector. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain internal controls and compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. We maintain operations and serve clients around the world. Although we do not target government entities as clients, some of our clients may receive funding or other support from local, state, provincial or national governments. As we maintain and seek to increase our international cross-border business and expand operations abroad, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our solutions and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our FlyMates, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we maintain policies and training programs for our FlyMates related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery and gift giving, and include representations regarding legal compliance in our contracts with vendors and strategic partners, there 63 can be no assurances that these policies, training programs or contractual provisions will be observed or enforceable. We cannot assure you that all of our FlyMates and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international business, our risks under these laws may increase. Detecting, investigating, and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption or anti-bribery laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties, injunctions, suspension or debarment from contracting with certain persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas are received or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal proceeding, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. In February 2022, following Russias invasion of Ukraine, the United States and other countries announced sanctions against Russia. The sanctions by the United States and other countries against Russia to date include restrictions on selling or importing goods, services or technology in or from affected regions, travel bans and asset freezes impacting connected individuals and political, military, business and financial organizations in Russia, severing Russias largest bank from the U.S. financial system, barring some Russian enterprises from raising money in the U.S. market and blocking the access of Russian banks to financial markets. The United States and other countries could impose wider sanctions and take other actions should the conflict further escalate. While it is difficult to anticipate the impact the sanctions announced to date may have on us, any further sanctions imposed or actions taken by the United States or other countries, and any retaliatory measures by Russia in response, could increase our costs, reduce our sales and earnings or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operations. If we fail to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our competitive position could be impaired and we may lose valuable assets, generate less revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws, the domain name dispute resolution mechanism, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, effective protection of intellectual property rights is expensive, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights, and the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. We do not have patents covering any of our technology and do not actively pursue patents. Any of our trademarks, or other intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others, or narrowed or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. There can be no guarantee that others will not independently develop similar solutions or duplicate any of our solutions. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our solutions and use information that we regard as proprietary to create solutions that compete with ours. We pursue registration of copyrights, trademarks, and domain names in the United States and in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States, but doing so may not always be successful or cost-effective. We may be unable or, in some instances, choose not to obtain legal protection for our intellectual property, and our existing and future intellectual property rights may not provide us with competitive advantages or distinguish our solutions from those of our competitors. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and effective intellectual property protection and mechanisms may be uncertain or unavailable in those jurisdictions. We may need to expend additional resources to defend our intellectual property in such countries, and the inability to do so could impair our business or adversely affect our international expansion. Particularly given the international nature of the Internet, the rate of growth of the Internet, and the ease of registering new domain names, we may not be able to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or take prompt enforcement action. Furthermore, the growing use of generative artificial intelligence presents an increased risk of unintentional and/or unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our FlyMates, consultants and contractors and with parties with whom we do business in order to acquire intellectual property rights developed as a result of service to us, as well as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. No assurance can be given that our intellectual property related agreements with our FlyMates, consultants, contractors clients, their customers, or strategic partners and others will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our solutions and proprietary information, potentially resulting in the 64 unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and other intellectual property, including to our competitors, which could cause us to lose any competitive advantage resulting from this intellectual property. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our solutions. In addition, individuals not subject to invention assignment agreements may make adverse ownership claims to our current and future intellectual property. To protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor, protect and defend these rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could be costly, time consuming, and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our solutions, impair the functionality of our solutions, delay introductions of new features, integrations, and capabilities, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our solutions, or injure our reputation. In addition, we may be required to license additional technology from third parties to develop and market new features, integrations, and capabilities, and we cannot be certain that we could license that technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and our inability to license this technology could harm our ability to compete. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. We may in the future become subject to intellectual property disputes. Lawsuits are time-consuming and expensive to resolve and they divert managements time and attention. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits and cannot assure you that the results of any such actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. During litigation, we may become subject to provisional rulings, including preliminary injunctions requiring us to cease some or all of our operations. We may decide to settle legal disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Furthermore, such disputes, even those without merit, may subject us to an unfavorable judgment that we may not choose to appeal or that may not be reversed upon appeal. In such a situation, we could be required to pay substantial damages or license fees to third party patent owners. In addition, we may also be required to modify, redesign, reengineer, or rebrand our solutions, or stop making, licensing, or providing solutions that incorporate the asserted intellectual property. Alternatively, we may enter into a license agreement to continue practices found to be in violation of a third partys rights. If we are required, or choose to enter into, royalty or licensing arrangements, such arrangements may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, we may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our clients in the event of infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to offer and sell access to our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. We use open source software in our solutions and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. There are uncertainties regarding the proper interpretation of and compliance with open source licenses, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to use such open source software, and consequently to provide or distribute our solutions. Although use of open source software has historically been free, several open source providers have begun to charge license fees for use of their software. If our current open source providers were to begin to charge for these licenses or increase their license fees significantly, this would increase our research and development costs and have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we may from time to time face claims from third parties claiming ownership of, or seeking to enforce the terms of, an open source license, including by demanding release of source code for the open source software, derivative works or our proprietary source code that was developed using, or that is distributed with, such open source software. These claims could also result in litigation and could require us to make our proprietary software source code freely available, require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our solutions or incur additional costs and expenses, any of which could result in reputational harm and would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. In addition, if the license terms for the open source software we utilize change, we may be forced to reengineer our solutions or incur additional costs to comply with the changed license terms or to replace the affected open source software. Further, use of certain open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of software or indemnification for third party infringement claims. Although we have implemented policies to regulate the use and 65 incorporation of open source software into our solutions, we cannot be certain that we have not incorporated open source software in our solutions in a manner that is inconsistent with such policies. Indemnity and liability provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, data protection, and other losses. Our agreements with some of our technology partners and certain clients include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, data protection, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our solutions or other contractual obligations. Some of these indemnity agreements provide for uncapped liability and some indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may incur substantial liability, and we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our solutions, as a result of intellectual property related claims. Any dispute with a client or technology partner with respect to these obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that client or technology partner and other existing or new clients or technology partners, and harm our business and operating results. In addition, although we carry insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed, or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging compromises of client or clients' customer data, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. New or revised tax regulations, unfavorable resolution of tax contingencies or changes to enacted tax rates could adversely affect our tax expense. As a multinational organization, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application, interpretation and enforcement of which can be uncertain. Changes in tax laws or their interpretations could result in changes to enacted tax rates and may require complex computations to be performed that were not previously required, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the new or revised tax regulations and significant estimates in calculations, as well as the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. Future changes in enacted tax rates could negatively affect our results of operations. For example, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 includes a minimum tax equal to fifteen percent of the adjusted financial statement income of certain corporations as well as a one percent excise tax on share buybacks, effective for tax years beginning in 2023. When effective, it is possible that the minimum tax could result in an additional tax liability over the regular federal corporate tax liability in a given year based on differences between book and taxable income (including as a result of temporary differences). The vast majority of states have considered or adopted laws that impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. States where we have nexus may require us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdiction. Additionally, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al (Wayfair) that online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the buyers state. In response to Wayfair, or otherwise, states or local governments may enforce laws requiring us to calculate, collect, and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. We may be obligated to collect and remit sales and use tax in states in which we have not collected and remitted sales and use tax. A successful assertion by one or more states requiring us to collect taxes where we historically have not or presently do not do so could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. The imposition by state governments or local governments of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state sellers could also create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a perceived competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors, and decrease our future sales, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Relevant foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to whether we have established a taxable nexus, often referred to as a permanent establishment, or the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. In addition, these authorities may take aggressive tax recovery positions that the funds flows we process are subject to value added tax or goods and services tax. If disagreements with relevant taxing authorities on other unknown matters were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our tax returns and positions are subject to review and audit by federal, state, local and international taxing authorities. An unfavorable outcome to a tax audit could result in higher tax expense, thereby negatively affecting our results of operations and cash flows. We have recognized estimated liabilities on the balance sheet for material known tax exposures relating to deductions, transactions and other matters involving some uncertainty as to the proper tax treatment 66 of the item. These liabilities reflect what we believe to be reasonable assumptions as to the likely final resolution of each issue if raised by a taxing authority. While we believe that the liabilities are adequate to cover reasonably expected tax risks, there can be no assurance that, in all instances, an issue raised by a tax authority will be finally resolved at a financial amount no more than any related liability. An unfavorable resolution, therefore, could negatively affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the current and/or future periods. Our ability to use our net operating losses (NOLs) to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of December 31, 2024, we had U.S. federal NOL carryforwards of approximately $57.9 million and state NOL carryforwards of approximately $88.3 million. The federal and material state NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2030 and 2029, respectively. In general, under Sections 382 and 383 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Code), a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs and other tax attributes such as research tax credits to offset future taxable income. An ownership change pursuant to Section 382 of the Code generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of the companys stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Future changes in our stock ownership, many of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Sections 382 or 383 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. During 2022, the Company completed a Section 382 study and as a result of the ownership changes identified, $1.6 million of Flywires NOLs and $0.2 million of Simplees NOLs will expire unutilized, assuming sufficient taxable income is generated in the future. In 2024, the Company completed its refresh of the Section 382 study through the 2023 tax year and there are no additional limitations in using federal and state NOL carryforwards. Under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act enacted in 2017 as modified by the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act enacted in 2020, U.S. federal NOL carryforwards generated in taxable periods beginning after December 31, 2017 may be carried forward indefinitely, but the deductibility of such NOL carryforwards in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020 is limited to 80% of taxable income. In addition, federal NOLs arising in tax years ending after December 31, 2017 can be carried forward indefinitely, but carryback is generally prohibited. NOLs generated in tax years beginning before January 1, 2018 will not be subject to the taxable income limitation, and NOLs generated in tax years ending before January 1, 2018 will continue to have a two-year carryback and twenty-year carryforward period. Deferred tax assets for NOLs will need to be measured at the applicable tax rate in effect when the NOL is expected to be utilized. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. The changes in the carryforward/carryback periods as well as the new limitation on use of NOLs may significantly impact our valuation allowance assessments for NOLs generated after December 31, 2017. Risks Related to Being a Public Company As a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, and if we fail to continue to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable laws and regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank), the listing requirements of The Nasdaq Global Select Market (Nasdaq), and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time consuming, or costly, and increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly, and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure