Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our fiscal year end is December 31, and our fiscal quarters end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. As discussed in Note 1 - Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, the Company has revised its financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to correct certain statement of cash flow classification errors. The amounts included in this Item 2 have been similarly revised. Overview Flywire is a leading global payments enablement and software company. Our next-gen payments platform, proprietary global payment network, and vertical-specific software help our clients get paid and help their customers pay with easeno matter where they are in the world. Our clients rely on us for integrated solutions that are both global and local, and combine tailored invoicing, flexible payment options, and highly personalized omni-channel experiences. We believe we make generational advances for our clients by transforming payments into a source of value and growth for their organizations while delighting their customers with payment experiences that are engaging, secure, fast, and transparent. Our Flywire Advantage is derived from three core elements: (i) our next-gen payments platform; (ii) our proprietary global payment network; and (iii) our vertical-specific software backed by our deep industry expertise. With our Flywire Advantage, we aim to power the transformation of our clients accounts receivable functions by automating paper and check-based business processes in addition to creating interactive, digital payment experiences for their customers. As a result, clients who implement our payments and software solutions can see increased digital payments and improved accounts receivable, higher enrollment in payment plans, and a reduction in customer support inquiries. We help our clients turn their accounts receivable functions into strategic, value-enhancing areas of their organizations. We reach clients through various channels, with our direct channel being our primary go-to-market strategy. Our industry-experienced sales and relationship management teams bring expertise and local reach, and our solution combines high-tech and high-touch functions backed by 24x7 multilingual customer support, resulting in high client and customer satisfaction. In addition, the value of our Flywire Advantage has been recognized, with global financial institutions and technology providers choosing to form channel partnerships with us. These partnerships promote organic referral and lead generation opportunities and enhance our indirect sales strategy. 35 The combination of our differentiated solution and efficient go-to-market strategy has resulted in strong and consistent client growth. Rapid domestic and international payments volume growth. We have grown our total payment volume by approximately 26.4% period-over-period from $11.0 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2024 to $13.9 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2025. We have grown our total payment volume by approximately 23.6% period-over-period from $22.8 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2024 to $28.2 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. Expanded global payments network. We have continued to add to the capabilities of our payment network by means of new local bank accounts and payment partners, and have expanded our global reach to over 240 countries and territories and more than 140 currencies. Strong dollar-based net retention. For the year ended December 31, 2024, our annual net dollar-based retention rate was approximately 114%. We calculate the annual net dollar-based retention rate for a given year based on the weighted average of the quarterly net dollar-based retention rates for each quarter in that year. We calculate the quarterly net dollar-based retention rate for a given quarter by dividing the revenue we earned in that quarter by the revenue we earned from the same clients in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Our calculation of quarterly net dollar-based revenue rate for a given quarter only includes revenue from clients that were clients at the beginning of the corresponding quarter of the previous year. As of September 30, 2025, we serve over 4,900 clients around the world, excluding clients acquired from the Sertifi and Invoiced acquisitions. In education, we serve more than 3,100 institutions. In healthcare, we power more than 100 healthcare systems, including four of the top 10 healthcare systems in the United States ranked by hospital size as of December 31, 2024. In our travel and B2B verticals, we have a growing portfolio of approximately 1,500 clients as of September 30, 2025. Our success in building our client base around the world and expanding utilization by our clients customers has allowed us to achieve significant scale. We enabled approximately $29.7 billion, $28.2 billion, and $22.8 billion in total payment volume during the year ended December 31, 2024 and nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively. We generated revenue of $492.1 million and $403.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 36 2023, respectively, and had net income of $2.9 million and net loss of $8.6 million, respectively, for the same years. We generated revenue of $465.5 million and $374.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024, respectively, and had net income of $13.5 million and $18.8 million, respectively, for the same periods. We believe that the growth of our business and our operating results will be dependent upon many factors, including our ability to add new clients, expand the usage of our solutions by our existing clients and their customers, integrate the businesses and technology platforms that we acquire and increase the breadth and depth of our payments and software capabilities by adding new solutions. While these areas present significant opportunities for us, they also pose challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. While we have experienced significant growth and increased demand for our solutions over recent periods, we may continue to incur losses in the short term and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our marketing is focused on generating leads to develop our sales pipeline, building our brand and market awareness, scaling our network of partners and growing our business from our existing client base. We believe that these efforts will result in an increase in our client base, revenues, and improved margins in the long term. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our IT and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. Additionally, we face intense competition in our markets, and to succeed, we need to innovate and offer solutions that are differentiated from legacy payment solutions. We must also effectively hire, retain, train, and motivate qualified personnel and senior management. There are also circumstances beyond our control which can materially impact our business that we need to respond to, including, but not limited to fluctuations in exchange rates. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges, our business, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. We had approximately 1,382 full-time FlyMates as of September 30, 2025, compared to approximately 1,314 full-time FlyMates as of September 30, 2024, an increase of 5.2%. Recent Acquisitions In February 2025, we entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the Agreement) to acquire the business of Sertifi LLC (Sertifi) for upfront cash consideration of $330.0 million, subject to certain post-closing adjustments set forth in the Agreement, and contingent consideration of up to $10.0 million upon the completion or satisfaction of certain technical and commercial milestones by Sertifi. Sertifi is a vertical software and payments platform digitizing hospitality-specific workflows and associated payments. We paid the upfront cash consideration through a combination of cash on hand and borrowings from our existing 2024 Revolving Credit Facility. The acquisition of Sertifi was intended to accelerate the Companys travel business and expand its offerings to support over 20,000 hotel locations globally. Sertifi contributed $7.8 million and $18.4 million in platform revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively, and $5.1 million and $11.5 million in transactional revenue during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025, respectively. In August 2024, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Invoiced for an estimated total aggregate purchase price of approximately $51.7 million, consisting of approximately $47.2 million in cash consideration, net of cash acquired and up to $7.5 million of contingent consideration. The contingent consideration represents additional payments that we may be required to make in the future dependent on the successful achievement of revenue, cross-selling, product and security and IT milestones. Invoiced is a U.S.-based SaaS B2B company that provides accounts receivable software that automates all aspects of billing, collections, payments, reporting and forecasting within a single online platform. The acquisition of Invoiced was intended to accelerate our global expansion in our B2B vertical. See Note 10 - Business Combinations to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional details related to these acquisitions. Restructuring In February 2025, we announced a restructuring plan that was designed to improve operational efficiencies, reduce operating costs and better align our workforce with current business needs, top strategic priorities, and key growth opportunities (collectively, the Restructuring Plan). In connection with the Restructuring Plan, we incurred restructuring and restructuring-related charges of $8.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, recorded within restructuring expenses on the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income. Restructuring costs during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, primarily consists of cash expenditures for severance payments and related expenses of $6.3 million and non-cash expenditures related to acceleration of vesting of 37 share-based awards of $2.4 million. As of September 30, 2025, the accrued restructuring liability was $0.7 million, which is included within accrued expenses and other current liabilities in the condensed consolidated balance sheets. Total costs incurred in connection with the Restructuring Plan were complete as of June 30, 2025. Our Revenue Model We generate revenue from transactions and from platform and other fees as described below. Transaction revenue includes fees earned from payment processing services provided to our clients, which is comprised of processing domestic and cross-border transactions. The fee is generally earned on each transaction through a rate applied to the total payment value of the transaction, which can vary based on the payment method, currency pairs being converted and the geographic region in which our clients and their customers reside. Payment processing services also include fixed fees per transaction, which generally relate to domestic payments processed. It also includes marketing fees from credit card service providers for marketing arrangements in which we perform certain marketing activities to increase the awareness of the credit card provider and promote certain methods of payments, which we consider to be ancillary to the payment processing solutions we provide to our clients. Platform and other revenues primarily include (i) fees earned for the utilization of our platforms to optimize cash collections and student application processing, which include revenue earned from software subscription fees and usage based fees, (ii) fees for the establishment of payment plans on our payment platform, (iii) fees related to printing, mailing, and other services which we consider to be ancillary to the solutions we provide to our clients, (iv) commissions from insurance providers when an end-user purchases an insurance policy, and (v) revenue from interest earned on funds held for customers in interest-bearing accounts. Platform and other revenues has been referred to as platform and usage based fee revenue in prior filings. Total Payment Volume To grow revenue from clients we must facilitate the use of our payment platform by our clients to process the amounts paid to them by their customers. The more our clients use our platform and rely upon our features to automate their payments, the more payment volume is processed on our solution. This metric provides an important indication of the value of the transactions that our clients customers are completing on our payment platform and is an indicator of our ability to generate revenue from our clients. We define total payment volume as the total amount paid to our clients on our payments platforms in a given period. Total payment volume is comprised of transaction payment volume and platform and other revenues payment volume. The following tables set forth the increase in our total payment volume, and the payment volume mix between transaction payment volume and platform and other revenues payment volume. Three Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Transaction payment volume $ 11,484.6 $ 8,776.1 $ 2,708.5 30.9% Platform and other revenues payment volume 2,431.6 2,234.7 196.9 8.8% Total payment volume $ 13,916.2 $ 11,010.8 $ 2,905.4 26.4% Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Transaction payment volume $ 22,897.8 $ 17,688.6 $ 5,209.2 29.4% Platform and other revenues payment volume 5,320.9 5,139.6 181.3 3.5% Total payment volume $ 28,218.7 $ 22,828.2 $ 5,390.5 23.6% Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Increased Utilization by Our Clients and Their Customers Our ability to monetize our payments platform and global payment network is an important part of our business model. Today, we charge a fee based on the total payment volume we process on behalf of our clients. Our revenue and payment volume increases as our clients process more transactions on our payment platform and more money is collected through our global payment network. Increased average size of the payments processed on our payment 38 platform also increases our revenue. Our ability to influence clients to process more transactions on our platform will have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition, sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new clients and further adoption of use cases such as payment plans, by our clients customers. Our ability to influence our clients to expand their customers usage of our platform also depends on our ability to successfully introduce new solutions, such as our solutions to support payments by international education consultants and our B2B solutions. Mix of Business on Our Platform Our revenue is affected by several factors, including the amount of payment volume processed by us on behalf of our clients, the industry in which our clients operate, the currency in which payments are made and received, the method of payment and the number of payment plans initiated by our clients customers. For example, we recognize more transaction revenue as our clients engage in cross border payment flows compared to domestic payments, which may increase or decrease depending on the industry in which our clients operate. In addition, the mix of payment methods utilized by our clients customers may have an impact on our margins given that our costs associated with certain payment methods, such as credit cards, are higher than other payment methods accepted by our solutions, such as bank transfers. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our business mix continued to exert downward pressure on our margins, driven by growing share of domestic transactions and credit card usage in travel and B2B, partially offset by ongoing optimization of payment costs. We may experience shifts in the type of revenue we earn (transaction revenue or platform and other revenues) depending on the nature of the activity of our clients and our clients customers on our platform. Investment in Technology and Development and Sales and Marketing We make significant investments in both new solutions and existing solution enhancement. New solution features and functionality are brought to market through a variety of distribution and promotional activities. We plan to continue to adopt emerging technologies, expand our library of software integrations and invest in the development of more features. At the same time, we are optimizing our systems and tools, consolidating our vendor footprint and automating processes. While we expect our expenses related to technology and development to increase, we believe these investments will contribute to long-term growth and profitability. Additionally, we plan to continue to expand efforts to market our payment platform and global payment network directly to our clients through comprehensive marketing initiatives. We are focused on the effectiveness of sales and marketing spending and will continue to be strategic in maintaining efficient client acquisition in the next quarters, including adjusting spending levels as needed in response to changes in the economic environment. Seasonality Our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue, which can vary by geographic corridor and vertical. For instance, our revenue has historically been largest in the third quarter driven by our education peak season. Some variability results from seasonal events including the timing of when our education clients customers make their tuition payments on our payment platform and the number of business days in a month or quarter. For example, due to the overlap of Chinas National Day and Mid-Autumn Festival in early October 2025, certain payments from our clients Chinese customers that would typically be settled in the fourth quarter were accelerated into the third quarter prior to the start of the holidays. As a result, revenue that would ordinarily be recognized in the fourth quarter was instead recognized in the third quarter, distorting period-over-period comparisons and contributing to elevated third-quarter results. Management does not expect this temporary shift in payment timing to have a material effect on overall annual results, but it may impact comparisons between affected quarters. We also experience volatility in certain other metrics, such as transactions processed, total payment volume and payment mix. Economic Conditions and Resulting Consumer Spending Trends Changes in macro-level consumer spending for education, healthcare and travel trends, including as a result of inflation or fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, could affect the amounts of volumes processed on our platform, thus resulting in fluctuations to our revenue streams. 39 Impacts Resulting From Government Changes to International Student and H-1B Visa Policies Revenue from our education clients, which primarily includes clients in the United States, Canada, U.K., Europe, and Asia Pacific/Australia, is affected by several factors, including policies enacted by government organizations around the world that cap the issuance of international student visas. In January 2024, the Canadian government announced what at the time appeared to be a temporary intake cap on international student permit applications to stabilize new growth for a period of two years. This cap intended to address Canadas housing shortage, overburdened health systems, and rising costs of living has reportedly reduced the number of international students coming to Canada by about 40% since implementation. Building on these changes, the Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) announced in January 2025 that new study permits for international students will be reduced by 10% from the 2024 target of 485,000 to 437,000 in 2025 and 2026. When first instituted by the IRCC, the cap initially excluded students enrolled in masters and PhD programs, but the IRCC more recently included masters and doctoral students within the cap. Additionally, in November 2024, Canada ended its Student Direct Stream (SDS) program for expedited international student visa processing, and international students applying to study in Canada no longer need to prepay tuition to apply for a study permit. These limitations have resulted in a corresponding reduction in payment flows, which had an adverse effect on our business in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and which we anticipate will continue to impact our Canada revenues and revenue growth in 2025. Similarly, since late 2023, the Australian government has taken similar actions to tighten international student visa rules, including an increase in the amount of minimum savings that international students would need to have in order to obtain a visa, raising the standards of the English language proficiency requirements for student and graduate visas, a 125% increase in the visa fee for international students, and the imposition of a ban for holders of visitor visas and students holding temporary graduate visas from applying for a student visa while in Australia. In August 2024, the Australian government announced the setting of a national planning level to apply from January 1, 2025 and which is intended to limit the number of new overseas student places available in Australia including a ceiling of 270,000 international students for calendar year 2025. However, in December 2024, the government announced a change of course, instead implementing a system to introduce two categories of student visa processing: high priority and standard priority, with all international education providers to receive high priority processing up to 80% of their indicative international student cap. After reaching 80%, the providers will receive standard priority processing. In August 2025, the Australian government announced the setting of a national planning level to apply a ceiling of 295,000 international students for 2026. These new Australian government policies, including university quotas, slower visa processing, higher fees, and stricter financial and language requirements, has had an adverse impact on our business in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and we anticipate will continue to impact our Australian revenues in 2025. Other governments where our client institutions are located, including in the U.S., may introduce measures from time to time to manage the growth of the international student population in their respective countries, which may have adverse effects on our business. For example, the U.S. governments recent announcement to impose a $100,000 filing fee per new H-1B visa could adversely impact demand for international students to attend our client institutions in the U.S. Our U.S. market saw slower growth in the nine months ended September 30, 2025 due to shifting visa trends. In addition, in 2025 U.S. policy shifts have prompted dramatic action to rescind student visas (including deportation of students), plan additional cutbacks to the volume of international student visa issuances and more closely scrutinize applications for international student visas, and to cut government support for higher education, adding to uncertainty around the number of students coming to the U.S. to study in the near future. Delays in issuances of visas or visa denials which could be exacerbated by the recent U.S. government shutdown may discourage prospective international students from choosing U.S. institutions as places for study. Recent proposals in Congress to tighten visa stay rules and to implement the OPT Fair Tax Act could further dampen demand among international students to study in the U.S. The existing rules and any introduction of new rules further limiting the attractiveness of international study by the governments of countries where our client institutions are located has and is expected in the near term to continue to adversely impact the growth of our business in the applicable regions. We expect these changes to U.S. immigration policy and heightened trade tensions from the threat or imposition of tariffs will continue to dampen demands for international study and adversely impact our revenue growth in the U.S. in 2025. After a period during which interviews and applications for student visas to study in the U.S. were temporarily suspended, in June 2025 the U.S. Department of State (DOS) resumed scheduling visa interview appointments for international students and exchange visitors while it considered new social media vetting measures. New student and exchange visitor visa policies, including the temporary pause and expanded vetting, could impact the amount of international students successfully enrolling as students in the U.S., which may adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Some of these expected impacts include: Requests for deferred admissions, increased student inquiries/concerns, and delays in expected enrollment; 40 Visa appointment cancellations, unavailability or delays in scheduling interviews as well as higher visa rejection rates - especially as to potential students from the countries that send the most students to the United States; and Students pivoting away from study and research in the United States. According to some studies, the top five countries that international students and scholars have indicated they are turning to instead of the United States are: United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, China, and Germany. These European and Asian study destinations that are gaining in market share of student interest often carry lower tuition and related costs of living relative to the United States, which may result in lower volume of payments processed within our education vertical. The expanded social media screening process to be applied by the DOS to student visa applicants establishes that, of those students seeking expedited appointments, priority should be given to those attending universities with lower international enrollment (15% or less). This change potentially disadvantages those seeking to study at more internationally diverse institutions and marks a significant departure from previous DOS guidance that prioritized students based on the start of their academic studies. Administrative processing issues, a new requirement that applicants provide DOS access to social media accounts, and the resource-intensive nature of the new screening requirements is expected to create longer wait times and processing delays. All of these factors and other related uncertainties that will surface as the new standards are implemented can contribute to a decline in international enrollment in U.S. academic institutions, which could adversely affect our business. There is still a degree of uncertainty in terms of the impact the changes to international student visa policy and international trade policies will have on our U.S., Canadian and Australian education markets. We continue to see growth in new customers in our U.S., Canada and Australia education markets, providing a lever to offset some of the expected decline in new incoming international student growth resulting from these government changes to international student visa policies and international trade policies. We believe our business continues to remain strong amid these visa-related policy shifts, benefiting from our increasingly global and diversified footprint across verticals, sub-sectors, countries, currencies and clients. Impact of New H-1B Visa Fee Requirement See discussion above under Impacts Resulting From Government Changes to International Student and H-1B Visa Policies regarding the U.S. government's announced plans to require employers to pay a $100,000 filing fee per H-1B visa petition to bring new H-1B workers into the U.S. This new requirement materially increases the cost of employing new foreign nationals in the U.S. The fee is not expected to apply to petitions filed before the effective date or to renewals. Flywire currently employs a number of specialized personnel under H-1B visas primarily software engineers and product managers whose skills are essential to maintaining and expanding our global payments platform. The new regulation could potentially increase our annual personnel costs as existing H-1B holders become eligible for renewal and as we recruit new employees in technical and operational roles. While the overall financial impact is not yet determinable, the incremental costs could be significant if the rule remains in effect or expands to other visa categories. To mitigate these potential cost increases, we are evaluating a combination of strategies, including: Reallocating hiring and development activities to lower-cost jurisdictions where we already operate; Investing in automation, AI-based solutions and process efficiency to reduce reliance on incremental headcount growth in the U.S.; and Enhancing our domestic talent pipeline through university partnerships, internships, and remote-work arrangements to expand access to U.S.-based workers not requiring sponsorship. We are also engaging through industry associations to monitor legal challenges and regulatory developments related to this rule and to advocate for more balanced immigration policies that support innovation and growth in the U.S. technology and fintech sectors. Although these mitigation efforts may partially offset the impact, increased visa-related costs or restrictions could reduce our flexibility in hiring and allocating talent, increase our operating expenses, and slow the pace of product innovation - all of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 41 Impacts Resulting From U.S. Government Policy Towards Higher Education In the U.S., the recently enacted One Big Beautiful Bill contains a number of provisions with the potential to significantly change the landscape for financing undergraduate and graduate study and which could adversely affect the demand for higher education in the U.S. The One Big Beautiful Bill limits Pell Grant awards (which provide gift aid to low-income students), eliminates the Grad PLUS program, and sets new limits for graduate and professional students for Direct Unsubsidized Loans. The new bill also caps parent loans to finance undergraduate education, and changes student loan repayment options, among other modifications. Although most of these changes will not go into effect until July 1, 2026, so U.S. students entering or returning to college in the fall of 2025 were unaffected, the longer-term impacts of the bill may impact U.S. student enrollment in undergraduate and postgraduate programs and could materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. In addition, in October 2025 the current administration introduced a proposed policy initiative known as the Compact for Academic Excellence in Higher Education, which would condition certain federal funding and grant eligibility for U.S. universities on compliance with a new set of policy standards. These standards reportedly include tuition caps, modifications to international student enrollment, changes to admissions criteria, and governance-related certifications. While the proposal remains under review and subject to public comment, its adoption - whether in its current or modified form - could materially affect the operating environment for higher-education institutions in the United States. Many of our U.S. universities and colleges rely on federal funding for research, student aid, and institutional support. If the proposed compact is implemented, universities may adjust enrollment levels, particularly of international students, or redirect administrative resources to compliance efforts. Such developments could reduce cross-border tuition payment volumes, delay new client implementations, or lead institutions to reevaluate third-party vendor relationships. These effects could, in turn, moderate revenue growth and increase client concentration risk within our education vertical. At this stage, the potential financial impact of the compact cannot be quantified, as the proposal has not yet been finalized or enacted. Management continues to monitor the policys development and is engaging with industry associations and higher-education partners to assess potential outcomes. To mitigate exposure, Flywire is taking several proactive steps, including: Diversifying our education client base internationally to reduce reliance on U.S. higher-education volumes; Expanding into adjacent services (e.g., housing payments, student refunds, and education-related B2B flows) to offset potential domestic revenue headwinds; and Maintaining flexibility in pricing and support structures to accommodate clients undergoing funding or enrollment adjustments. While the proposed compact may not be implemented in its current form and was rejected in its initial form by most of the approached universities, uncertainty surrounding federal higher-education policy in the U.S. may influence the timing of new client contracts and the pace of adoption of our technology platform. Impact of Inflation Inflation did not have a material effect on our cash flows and results of operations during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2025. Diversified Mix of Clients We have a wide range of clients across our education, healthcare, travel and B2B verticals. Volumes and revenue from clients in education, our largest vertical, rely on international enrollments and student school preferences, which can fluctuate over time. Dynamic Changes to Client Communication and Product Solutions We initiated a series of refinements to our technology and personalization engine to optimize our clients ability to offer payment plans and communicate effectively and digitally with their customers. Similarly, we configured some of our education payment plan solutions for a very streamlined implementation in support of our clients requests for affordability solutions for their students that could be deployed with minimal IT involvement. While we continue to invest in our technology and product capabilities, our ability to continue providing streamlined and effective products through our technology platform may impact our ability to retain and win new clients in the future. We believe that our ability to help 42 increase payment affordability has become more critical to our clients as the lack of affordability drives the need for more financial flexibility. Business Continuity We have a history of operating losses and while we have experienced significant revenue growth in recent years and achieved profitability on a GAAP basis in the year ended December 31, 2024, we are not certain whether or when we will obtain a high enough volume of revenue to sustain or increase our growth or achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs and expenses to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future operating results if our revenue does not increase. In particular, we intend to continue to strategically invest in headcount and technologies and systems to improve operating efficiencies, to further develop and enhance our solutions, including introducing new functionality, and to expand our marketing programs and sales teams to drive new client adoption, expand strategic partner integrations, and support international and industry expansion. Our operating results are also impacted by the mix of our revenue generated from our different revenue sources, which include transaction revenue and platform and other fee revenue. Changes in our revenue mix from quarter to quarter, including those derived from cross-border or domestic currency transactions, will impact our margins, and we may not be able to grow our gross margin adequately to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, the mix of payment methods utilized by our clients customers may have an impact on our margins given that our costs associated with certain payment methods, such as credit cards, are higher than other payment methods accepted by our solutions, such as bank transfers. We are addressing operating losses by making continued improvements designed to create operating efficiencies and a focus on cost discipline, including investing in automation and product development to further enhance our offerings with a focus on scale and productivity across all areas. Beginning in the first quarter of 2025 and continuing into the second quarter of 2025, we implemented a restructuring plan designed to improve operational efficiencies, reduce operating costs and better align the Companys workforce with current business needs, top strategic priorities and key growth opportunities. We believe these improvements, our strong product portfolio, client retention and established product market fit along with strong gross margins and cash flows from operations will help us achieve our goal of maintaining positive annual GAAP net income in the future. While we expect that our clients business and our business will continue to be adversely impacted, directly or indirectly, by the ongoing macroeconomic and geopolitical issues, as of the date of this report. However, the extent of the ongoing impact of these macroeconomic events on our and our clients business, our markets and on global economic activity however, is uncertain and the related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated with any certainty at this time. If the recent cessation of hostilities involving Israel and Hamas is permanent, workforce planning for our Israeli FlyMates may again normalize after a period of active workforce planning to implement safety measures for FlyMates in Israel and support the business without interruption. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from transactions and from platform and other fees as described under Our Revenue Model. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs consist of costs incurred to process payment transactions which include banking and credit card processing fees, foreign currency translation costs, partner fees, personnel-related expenses for our FlyMates who facilitate these payments and personnel related expenses for our FlyMates who provide implementation services to our clients. We expect that payment processing services costs will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period, as we continue to invest in scaling our processing operations and grow our revenue base. Technology and Development Technology and development includes (a) costs incurred in connection with the development of our solution and the improvement of existing solutions, including the amortization of software and website development costs incurred in developing our solution, which are capitalized, and acquired developed technology, (b) site operations and other infrastructure costs incurred, (c) amortization related to capitalized cost to fulfill a contract, (d) personnel-related expenses, including salaries, stock-based compensation and other expenses, (e) hardware and software engineering, consultant services and other costs associated with our technology platform and products, (f) research materials and facilities, and (g) depreciation and maintenance expense. 43 We believe delivering new functionality is critical to attract new clients and expand our relationship with existing clients. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our solutions in order to enhance our clients experience and satisfaction, and to attract new clients. We expect our technology and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but they may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period as we expand our technology and development team to develop new solutions and enhancements to existing solutions. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, sales commissions, amortization of acquired client relationship intangible assets, marketing program expenses, travel related expenses and costs to market and promote our solutions through advertisements, marketing events, partnership arrangements, and direct client acquisition. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our business, platform, and solutions, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing efforts by driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events; however, we will adjust our sales and marketing spend level as needed, and this may fluctuate from period to period, in response to changes in the economic environment. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense for finance, risk management, legal and compliance, human resources, IT and other administrative functions, costs incurred for external professional services, as well as rent, and facility and insurance costs. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as we continue to invest in our planned growth of our business. We also expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth in the business, and to operate as a public company. As a result, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Restructuring In February 2025, we announced the Restructuring Plan that is designed to improve operational efficiencies, reduce operating costs and better align our workforce with current business needs, top strategic priorities and key growth opportunities. Restructuring expenses included restructuring and restructuring related expenses incurred as part of the Restructuring Plan announced in February 2025, related to employee transition, notice period, severance, employee benefits and facilitation costs. Interest Expense On February 23, 2024, we entered into an Amended and Restated Credit Agreement for a five-year senior secured revolving credit syndication loan (2024 Revolving Credit Facility) with four banks for a total commitment of $125.0 million. On August 1, 2025, we entered into an amendment (the 2025 Revolving Credit Facility Amendment) to the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility to increase the total commitments from $125.0 million to $300.0 million and make certain conforming and administrative changes. The 2024 Revolving Credit Facility, as amended by the 2025 Revolving Credit Facility Amendment, is hereinafter referred to as the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Interest expense consists of interest, amortization of debt issuance costs and unused commitment fees on our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility and 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. As of September 30, 2025 there was $15.0 million outstanding under the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2024 there was no outstanding indebtedness under the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility. 44 Interest Income Interest income consists of interest on cash held in interest bearing operating accounts, including money market funds, and investments in available-for-sale debt securities. (Loss) Gain from Remeasurement of Foreign Currency (Loss) gains from remeasurement of foreign currency consists of gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions into its functional currency, partially offset by foreign currency exchange forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of foreign and state income taxes. We have historically generated net operating losses (NOL) carryforwards for U.S. federal and state tax purposes as we expand the scale of our business activities. Changes in the U.S. and foreign tax law may impact our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance on our net U.S. deferred tax assets, including federal and state NOLs. We expect to maintain these valuation allowances until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our deferred tax assets is realized through future taxable income generated in these jurisdictions. Results of Operations Comparison of results for the three months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 All dollar amounts in the tables below are rounded and as a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Revenue $ 200.1 $ 156.8 $ 43.3 27.6% Payment processing services costs 72.3 54.6 17.7 32.4% Technology and development 17.7 16.7 1.0 6.0% Selling and marketing 41.9 34.2 7.7 22.5% General and administrative 36.0 31.1 4.9 15.8% Total costs and operating expenses 167.9 136.5 31.4 23.0% Income (loss) from operations 32.3 20.3 12.0 59.1% Interest expense (1.2) (0.1) (1.1) (1100.0)% Interest income 0.8 5.0 (4.2) (84.0)% (Loss) gain from remeasurement of foreign currency (0.6) 5.5 (6.1) (110.9)% Total other (expense) income, net (1.1) 10.3 (11.4) (110.7)% Income before income taxes 31.2 30.6 0.6 2.0% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1.6 (8.3) 9.9 119.3% Net income 29.6 38.9 (9.3) (23.9)% Foreign currency translation adjustment (1.9) 4.9 (6.8) (138.8)% Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, net of taxes 0.0 0.7 (0.7) (100.0)% Comprehensive income $ 27.7 $ 44.5 $ (16.8) (37.8)% 45 Revenue Revenue was $200.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $156.8 million for the same period of 2024, an increase of $43.3 million or 27.6%. Revenue is comprised of transaction revenue and platform and other revenues as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Transaction revenue $ 167.2 $ 134.4 $ 32.7 24.4% Platform and other revenues 33.0 22.4 10.6 47.3% Revenue $ 200.1 $ 156.8 $ 43.3 27.6% Transaction revenue was $167.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $134.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $32.7 million or 24.4%. The increase in transaction revenue was primarily driven by growth in transaction payment volume inclusive of the Sertifi acquisition for the three months ended September 30, 2025 from both our existing clients and new clients added during the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to three months ended September 30, 2024. Our transaction payment volume outpaced our revenue growth during the three months ended September 30, 2025, primarily due to the increase in domestic transactions that have a lower average monetization rate. We experienced growth in transaction payment volume across most regions and verticals during the period, excluding Canada, which decreased primarily due to Canadas international student permit applications cap introduced earlier in 2024. Transaction payment volume increased approximately 30.9% during the three months ended September 30, 2025 to $11.5 billion compared to $8.8 billion during the three months ended September 30, 2024. Sertifi contributed $5.1 million in transactional revenue during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Platform and other revenues were $33.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $22.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $10.6 million or 47.3%. The increase in platform and other revenues was driven by the Sertifi and Invoiced acquisitions and an increase in healthcare platform products. Sertifi contributed $7.8 million in platform and other revenues during the three months ended September 30, 2025. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs were $72.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $54.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $17.7 million or 32.4%. The increase in payment processing services costs is correlated with an increase in transaction payment volume of 30.9% over the same period. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses were $17.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $16.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.0 million or 6.0%. The increase in technology and development cost was primarily driven by increases in stock-based compensation expense, depreciation and amortization, and personnel costs. Stock-based compensation expense was $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $3.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $0.4 million or 13.1%. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was attributable to equity grants awarded to existing and new FlyMates, including our new FlyMates from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Depreciation and amortization were $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $0.3 million or 24.6%. The increase in depreciation and amortization was primarily due to our software solutions. Personnel costs were $10.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to $10.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $0.3 million or 2.8%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by higher headcount resulting from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $41.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $34.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $7.7 million or 22.5%. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was primarily driven by increases in professional fees, personnel costs, and depreciation and amortization expense. Professional fees were $9.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $6.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.9 million or 43.6%. The increase in professional fees was primarily due to increases in third party commissions. Personnel costs were $18.2 46 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $16.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.2 million or 13.6%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by higher head count resulting from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Depreciation and amortization was $4.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $2.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.1 million or 102.0%. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to acquired intangible assets related to the Sertifi and Invoiced acquisitions. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $36.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $31.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $4.9 million or 15.8%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by increases in personnel costs, engineering tools, chargebacks, and hedging losses. Personnel costs were $13.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $11.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.7 million or 14.8%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in the 2025 annual bonus performance metrics expected payout and higher headcount from new FlyMates, including our new FlyMates from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Engineering tools were $3.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.2 million or 47.4%. The increase in engineering tools was primarily driven by increasing hosting fees. Chargebacks were $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $0.6 million or 230.5%. Hedging losses were $1.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $0.5 million or 111.2%. The increase in hedging losses were driven by foreign exchange rate movements. Interest Expense Interest expense was $1.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024. As of September 30, 2025, there was $15.0 million outstanding indebtedness under the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense, amortization of debt issuance costs, and unused commitment fees related to our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Interest Income Interest income was $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $5.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $4.2 million or 84.0%. The decrease in interest income was primarily attributable to the decrease in our cash balance as a result of spending cash on the Share Repurchase Program and recent acquisitions. (Loss) Gain from Remeasurement of Foreign Currency Loss from remeasurement of foreign currency was $0.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to a gain from remeasurement of foreign currency of $5.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $6.1 million or 110.9%. The decrease was impacted by fluctuations in exchange rates during respective remeasurement periods including intercompany loans, which was partially offset by hedging instruments. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $1.6 million during the three months ended September 30, 2025, compared to a benefit from income taxes of $8.3 million during the three months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $9.9 million or 119.3%. The income tax provision for the three months ended September 30, 2025 was primarily attributable to activity in the Company's foreign subsidiaries and U.S. state taxes. The income tax benefit for the three months ended September 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to a non-recurring benefit of $4.9 million relating to the release of a portion of the valuation allowance in the U.S. Our effective tax rate was 5.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2025 compared to (27.3)% for the three months ended September 30, 2024. Comparison of results for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 and 2024 All dollar amounts in the tables below are rounded and as a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. 47 The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for periods presented: Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Revenue $ 465.5 $ 374.6 $ 90.9 24.3% Payment processing services costs 176.8 136.1 40.7 29.9% Technology and development 51.7 49.3 2.4 4.9% Selling and marketing 116.9 96.1 20.8 21.6% General and administrative 99.2 94.6 4.6 4.9% Restructuring 8.7 0.0 8.7 Total costs and operating expenses 453.2 376.1 77.1 20.5% Income (loss) from operations 12.3 (1.5) 13.8 920.0% Interest expense (3.0) (0.4) (2.6) (650.0)% Interest income 4.8 16.6 (11.8) (71.1)% (Loss) gain from remeasurement of foreign currency 6.9 2.1 4.8 228.6% Gain on available-for-sale debt securities 0.2 0.0 0.2 Total other (expense) income, net 8.9 18.2 (9.3) (51.1)% Income before income taxes 21.1 16.8 4.3 25.6% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 7.7 (2.0) 9.7 485.0% Net income 13.5 18.8 (5.3) (28.2)% Foreign currency translation adjustment 7.4 3.7 3.7 100.0% Unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale debt securities, net of taxes (0.1) 0.6 (0.7) (116.7)% Comprehensive income $ 20.7 $ 23.2 $ (2.5) (10.8)% Revenue Revenue was $465.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $374.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $90.9 million or 24.3%. Revenue is comprised of transaction revenue and platform and other revenues as follows: Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Amount Percent Transaction revenue $ 376.2 $ 314.9 $ 61.3 19.5% Platform and other revenues 89.2 59.6 29.6 49.6% Revenue $ 465.5 $ 374.6 $ 90.9 24.3% Transaction revenue was $376.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $314.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $61.3 million or 19.5%. The increase in transaction revenue was primarily driven by growth in transaction payment volumes for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 from both our existing clients and new clients added during the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to nine months ended September 30, 2024. Our transaction payment volume outpaced our revenue growth during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, primarily due to the increase in domestic transactions that have a lower average monetization rate. We experienced growth in transaction payment volume across most regions and verticals during the period, excluding Canada, which decreased primarily due to Canadas international student permit applications cap introduced earlier in 2024. Transaction payment volume increased approximately 29.4% during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, to $22.9 billion compared to $17.7 billion during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Platform and other revenues were $89.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $59.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $29.6 million or 49.6%. The increase in platform and other revenues was driven by the Sertifi and Invoiced acquisitions, an increase in healthcare platform products, revenue from interest earned on funds held for customers in interest-bearing accounts. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs were $176.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $136.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $40.7 million or 29.9%. The increase in payment processing services costs is correlated with the increase in transaction payment volume of 29.4% over the same period. 48 Technology and Development Technology and development expenses were $51.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $49.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.4 million or 4.9%. The increase in technology and development cost was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs and stock-based compensation expense, offset by a decrease in software tools. Personnel costs were $32.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to $30.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.5 million or 5.0%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by higher headcount resulting from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Stock-based compensation expense was $10.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $8.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.5 million or 17.6%. The increase in stock-based compensation is attributable to equity grants awarded to existing and new FlyMates, including our new FlyMates from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. Software tools were $3.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $4.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $0.6 million or 15.0%. The decrease in software tools was primarily due to optimization of our technology infrastructure. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $116.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $96.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $20.8 million or 21.6%. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was primarily driven by increases in professional fees, depreciation and amortization expense, and personnel costs. Professional fees were $21.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $15.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $5.9 million or 37.7%. The increase in professional fees was primarily due to increases in third party commissions from growth in payment volume. Depreciation and amortization was $11.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $5.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $5.6 million or 95.0%. The increase in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the Sertifi and Invoiced acquisitions. Personnel costs were $54.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $48.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $5.5 million or 11.2%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by higher headcount resulting from our recent acquisition of Sertifi. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $99.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $94.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $4.6 million or 4.9%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by increases in acquisition costs, engineering tools, and chargebacks, partially offset by a decrease in professional fees. Acquisition costs were $2.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.0 million or 331.4%. The increase in acquisition costs were attributable to the Sertifi acquisition during the nine months ended September 30, 2025. Engineering tools were $8.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $7.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.0 million or 28.1%. The increase in engineering tools was primarily driven by increasing hosting fees. Chargebacks were $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $1.3 million or 349.1%. Professional fees were $9.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $11.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $1.7 million or 14.5%. The decrease in the professional fees was primarily driven by the capitalization of consultant fees related to software implementation initiatives and a decrease in external legal fees. Restructuring Restructuring expenses were $8.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025. There were no restructuring expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Restructuring expenses included restructuring and restructuring-related expenses incurred as part of the Restructuring Plan announced in February 2025, related primarily to severance payments, employee benefits, and facilitation costsof $6.3 million and $2.4 million of expense related to the acceleration of stock-based compensation for terminated employees. Interest Expense Interest expense was $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $2.6 million or 650.0%. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we drew down $125.0 million and repaid $110.0 million from our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. As of 49 September 30, 2025, there was $15.0 million outstanding indebtedness under the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Interest expense consists primarily of interest expense, amortization of debt issuance costs and unused commitment fees related to our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility and our former 2021 Revolving Credit Facility. Interest Income Interest income was $4.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $16.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, a decrease of $11.8 million or 71.1%. The decrease in interest income was primarily attributable to the decrease in our cash balance as a result of spending cash on the Repurchase Program and the acquisition of Sertifi. (Loss) Gain from Remeasurement of Foreign Currency Gain from remeasurement of foreign currency was $6.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $2.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $4.8 million or 228.6%. The increase was primarily the result of the remeasurement of foreign currency intercompany loans and related hedging instruments and the impact of fluctuations in exchange rates during respective remeasurement periods. Gain on Available-for-Sale Debt Securities Gain from sale of available-for-sale debt securities was $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025 compared to no gain, as there were no sales of available-for-sale debt security investments during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $7.7 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to a benefit from income taxes of $2.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2024, an increase of $9.7 million or 485.0%. The provision for income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, was primarily attributable to activity in our foreign subsidiaries and U.S. federal and state taxes. The income tax benefit for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, was primarily attributable to a non-recurring benefit of $4.9 million relating to the release of a portion of the valuation allowance in the U.S. Our effective tax rate was 36.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to (12.3)% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024. Key Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we use certain non-GAAP financial measures. The following table sets forth our key operating metrics and non-GAAP measures for the periods presented. All dollar amounts are rounded and as a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 Total Payment Volume $ 13,916.2 $ 11,010.8 $ 28,218.7 $ 22,828.2 Revenue $ 200.1 $ 156.8 $ 465.5 $ 374.6 Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 194.1 $ 151.4 $ 450.3 $ 361.5 Gross Profit $ 124.7 $ 100.3 $ 280.4 $ 232.7 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 127.5 $ 101.9 $ 287.9 $ 237.3 Gross Margin 62.3% 64.0% 60.2% 62.1% Adjusted Gross Margin 65.7% 67.3% 63.9% 65.6% Net Income $ 29.6 $ 38.9 $ 13.5 $ 18.8 Adjusted EBITDA $ 57.1 $ 42.2 $ 95.1 $ 61.2 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 28.5% 26.9% 20.4% 16.3% For the three months ended September 30, 2025, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 83.5% and 16.5% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 85.4% and 14.6% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 85.7% and 14.3% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 88.0% and 12.0% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. 50 For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 80.8% and 19.2% of our revenue, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 83.1% and 16.9% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 84.1% and 15.9% of our revenue, respectively. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, transaction revenue and platform and other revenues represented 86.7% and 13.3% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended September 30, 2025, our total payment volume was approximately $13.9 billion, consisting of $11.5 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $2.4 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and other revenues. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, our total payment volume was approximately $11.0 billion, consisting of $8.8 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $2.2 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and other revenues. For the nine months ended September 30, 2025, our total payment volume was approximately $28.2 billion, consisting of $22.9 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $5.3 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and other revenues. For the nine months ended September 30, 2024, our total payment volume was approximately $22.8 billion, consisting of $17.7 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $5.1 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and other revenues. Revenue Less Ancillary Services, FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Non-GAAP Operating Expenses We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and better project our future consolidated financial performance as forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide our stakeholders with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance and enabling them to make more meaningful period-to-period comparisons. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented here. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. We use supplemental measures of our performance which are derived from our consolidated financial information, but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include the following: Revenue Less Ancillary Services - represents our consolidated revenue in accordance with GAAP less (i) pass-through cost for printing and mailing services and (ii) marketing fees. We exclude these amounts to arrive at this supplemental non-GAAP financial measure as we view these services as ancillary to the primary services we provide to our clients. FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services - represents Revenue Less Ancillary Services adjusted to show presentation on a FX Neutral basis. The constant currency information presented is calculated by translating current period results using prior period weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. We analyze FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services to provide a comparable framework for assessing how the business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Adjusted Gross Profit - represents Revenue Less Ancillary Services, less cost of revenue adjusted to (i) exclude pass-through cost for printing services, (ii) offset marketing fees against costs incurred and (iii) exclude depreciation and amortization, including accelerated amortization on the impairment of customer set-up costs tied to technology integration, if applicable. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross profit with a useful measure of the gross profit of our payment processing-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. Adjusted Gross Margin - represents Adjusted Gross Profit divided by Revenue Less Ancillary Services. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross margin with a useful measure of the gross margin of our payment-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. 51 EBITDA - represents our consolidated net income (loss) in accordance with GAAP adjusted to include (i) interest expense, (ii) interest income, (iii) provision for income taxes and (iv) depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA - represents EBITDA further adjusted by excluding (i) stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, (ii) the impact from the change in fair value measurement for contingent consideration associated with acquisitions, (iii) gain (loss) from the remeasurement of foreign currency, (iv) indirect taxes related to intercompany activity, (v) acquisition related transaction costs, (vi) employee retention costs, such as incentive compensation associated with acquisition activities, (vii) restructuring and (viii) gain (loss) from investments. Management believes that the exclusion of these amounts to calculate Adjusted EBITDA provides useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business. Adjusted EBITDA Margin - represents Adjusted EBITDA divided by Revenue Less Ancillary Services. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross margin with a useful measure of the gross margin of our payment-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. Non-GAAP Operating Expenses - represents GAAP Operating Expenses adjusted by excluding (i) stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, (ii) depreciation and amortization, (iii) acquisition related transaction costs, (iv) employee retention costs, such as incentive compensation associated with acquisition activities, (v) the impact from the change in fair value measurement for contingent consideration associated with acquisitions and (vi) restructuring. These non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for revenue, gross margin or net income (loss) prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Non-GAAP Operating Expenses to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are presented below. We encourage you to review these reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The tables below provide reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Non-GAAP Operating Expenses to the most comparable GAAP figure on a consolidated basis for the periods presented. All dollar amounts are rounded and as a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin*: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 Revenue $ 200.1 $ 156.8 $ 465.5 $ 374.6 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.6) (4.2) (13.3) (11.4) Marketing fees (1.4) (1.2) (1.9) (1.7) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 194.1 $ 151.4 $ 450.3 $ 361.5 Payment processing services costs 72.3 54.6 176.8 136.1 Hosting and amortization costs within technology and development expenses 3.1 1.9 8.3 5.8 Cost of Revenue $ 75.4 $ 56.5 $ 185.1 $ 141.9 Adjusted to: Exclude printing and mailing costs (4.6) (4.2) (13.3) (11.4) Offset marketing fees against related costs (1.4) (1.2) (1.9) (1.7) Exclude depreciation and amortization (2.8) (1.6) (7.5) (4.6) Adjusted Cost of Revenue $ 66.6 $ 49.5 $ 162.4 $ 124.2 Gross Profit $ 124.7 $ 100.3 $ 280.4 $ 232.7 Gross Margin 62.3% 64.0% 60.2% 62.1% Adjusted Gross Profit $ 127.5 $ 101.9 $ 287.9 $ 237.3 Adjusted Gross Margin 65.7% 67.3% 63.9% 65.6% 52 * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. Three Months Ended September 30, 2025 Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and other revenues Revenue Transaction Platform and other revenues Revenue Revenue $ 167.2 $ 33.0 $ 200.1 $ 134.4 $ 22.4 $ 156.8 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.6) (4.6) (4.2) (4.2) Marketing fees (1.4) (1.4) (1.2) (1.2) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 165.7 $ 28.4 $ 194.1 $ 133.2 $ 18.2 $ 151.4 Percentage of Revenue 83.5% 16.5% 100.0% 85.7% 14.3% 100.0% Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 85.4% 14.6% 100.0% 88.0% 12.0% 100.0% * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and other revenues Revenue Transaction Platform and other revenues Revenue Revenue $ 376.2 $ 89.2 $ 465.5 $ 314.9 $ 59.6 $ 374.6 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (13.3) (13.3) (11.4) (11.4) Marketing fees (1.9) (1.9) (1.7) (1.7) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 374.3 $ 76.0 $ 450.3 $ 313.2 $ 48.2 $ 361.5 Percentage of Revenue 80.8% 19.2% 100.0% 84.1% 15.9% 100.0% Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 83.1% 16.9% 100.0% 86.7% 13.3% 100.0% * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services*: Three Months Ended September 30, Change Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (dollars in millions) 2025 2024 Percent 2025 2024 Percent Revenue $ 200.1 $ 156.8 28% $ 465.5 $ 374.6 24% Ancillary services (6.0) (5.4) (15.2) (13.1) Revenue Less Ancillary Services 194.1 151.4 28% 450.3 361.5 25% Effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations (2.9) (3.5) FX Neutral Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 191.2 $ 151.4 26% $ 446.8 $ 361.5 24% * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. 53 EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin*: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 Net income $ 29.6 $ 38.9 $ 13.5 $ 18.8 Interest expense 1.2 0.1 3.0 0.4 Interest income (0.8) (5.0) (4.8) (16.6) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1.6 (8.3) 7.7 (2.0) Depreciation and amortization expense 7.2 4.6 20.2 13.5 EBITDA 38.8 30.3 39.5 14.1 Stock-based compensation expense and related taxes 17.8 16.4 51.0 49.0 Change in fair value of contingent consideration (0.7) (0.1) (1.2) (1.0) Loss (gain) from remeasurement of foreign currency 0.6 (5.5) (6.9) (2.1) Gain on available-for-sale debt securities (0.2) Indirect taxes related to intercompany activity 0.6 0.1 1.6 0.2 Acquisition related transaction costs (a) 0.5 2.6 0.5 Restructuring 8.7 Acquisition related employee retention costs (b) 0.5 0.5 Adjusted EBITDA $ 57.1 $ 42.2 $ 95.1 $ 61.2 Adjusted EBITDA margin 28.5% 26.9% 20.4% 16.3% * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. (a) Acquisition-related transaction costs consisted of legal and advisory fees incurred in connection with the Sertifi acquisition. (b) Acquisition-related employee retention costs consisted of costs incurred to retain and compensate Invoiced. Net Margin, EBITDA Margin, Adjusted EBITDA Margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin*: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 Revenue (A) $ 200.1 $ 156.8 $ 465.5 $ 374.6 Revenue less ancillary services (B) $ 194.1 $ 151.4 $ 450.3 $ 361.5 Net income (C) $ 29.6 $ 38.9 $ 13.5 $ 18.8 EBITDA (D) $ 38.8 $ 30.3 $ 39.5 $ 14.1 Adjusted EBITDA (E) $ 57.1 $ 42.2 $ 95.1 $ 61.2 Net margin (C/A) 14.8% 24.8% 2.9% 5.0% Net margin using RLAS (C/B) 15.3% 25.7% 3.0% 5.2% EBITDA Margin (D/A) 19.4% 19.3% 8.5% 3.8% Adjusted EBITDA Margin (E/A) 28.5% 26.9% 20.4% 16.3% EBITDA Margin using RLAS (D/B) 20.0% 20.0% 8.8% 3.9% Adjusted EBITDA Margin using RLAS (E/B) 29.4% 27.9% 21.1% 16.9% * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. 54 Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Expenses to Non-GAAP Operating Expenses*: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2025 2024 2025 2024 GAAP Technology and development $ 17.7 $ 16.7 $ 51.7 $ 49.3 (-) Stock-based compensation expense and related taxes (3.5) (3.1) (9.8) (8.6) (-) Depreciation and amortization (1.7) (1.7) (4.9) (5.3) Non-GAAP Technology and development $ 12.5 $ 11.9 $ 36.9 $ 35.4 GAAP Selling and marketing $ 41.9 $ 34.2 $ 116.9 $ 96.1 (-) Stock-based compensation expense and related taxes (5.2) (4.6) (14.5) (13.6) (-) Depreciation and amortization (4.4) (2.1) (11.9) (6.0) (-) Acquisition related employee retention costs (0.5) (0.5) Non-GAAP Selling and marketing $ 32.3 $ 27.0 $ 90.5 $ 76.0 GAAP General and administrative $ 36.0 $ 31.1 $ 99.2 $ 94.6 (-) Stock-based compensation expense and related taxes (9.1) (8.7) (26.7) (26.8) (-) Depreciation and amortization (0.7) (0.7) (2.1) (2.2) (-) Acquisition related transaction costs (0.5) (2.6) (0.5) (-) Change in fair value of contingent consideration 0.7 0.1 1.2 1.0 Non-GAAP General and administrative $ 27.0 $ 21.3 $ 69.1 $ 66.1 * Figures in the table may not total or recalculate due to rounding. Totals and percentage changes are calculated based on unrounded numbers. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2025, our principal source of liquidity is cash and cash equivalents of $354.9 million, short-term available-for-sale debt securities of $22.4 million, and the available balance under our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $285.0 million. Cash equivalents is comprised primarily of money market funds and bank deposits. Our short-term available-for-sale debt securities are comprised of corporate bonds, U.S. Government obligations and asset backed securities. On August 6, 2024, we announced the Repurchase Program. On July 30, 2025, our board of directors approved an increase in the aggregate amount of voting and non-voting common stock outstanding that may be repurchased under the Repurchase Program by an additional $150.0 million, bringing the total authorized amount under the Repurchase Program to $300.0 million. For additional information on our Repurchase Program, see Note 13 - Stockholders Equity in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, the Company repurchased 4,889,064 shares of its common stock for an aggregate amount, including commissions and accrued excise tax, of $62.8 million under the Repurchase Program. The repurchased shares are held as treasury stock. As of September 30, 2025, approximately $191.9 million of the authorized $300 million amount under the Repurchase Program remained available for future repurchases. On February 23, 2024, we entered into our 2024 Revolving Credit Facility for a total commitment of $125.0 million, which replaced the 2021 Revolving Credit Facility of $50.0 million that was in effect as of December 31, 2023. On August 1, 2025, we entered into an amendment to the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility (2025 Revolving Credit Facility Amendment) with five banks to increase the total commitments from $125.0 million to $300.0 million and make certain conforming and administrative changes. The 2024 Revolving Credit Facility, as amended by the 2025 Revolving Credit Facility Amendment, is hereinafter referred to as, the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. Four of the lenders under the 2025 Revolving Credit Facility Amendment were existing lenders under the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we drew down $125.0 million under the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility in connection with the acquisition of Sertifi. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, we repaid $110.0 million against the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. The outstanding balance of the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility was $15.0 million at September 30, 2025. There was no outstanding balance of the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility at December 31, 2024. 55 We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to support our expected working capital needs and material cash requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from clients, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase public cloud capacity, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. In addition, we have, and may in the future, repurchase shares of our voting and non-voting common stock from time to time under our Repurchase Program. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flow information for the periods presented. All dollar amounts in the table below are rounded and as a result, certain amounts may not recalculate using the rounded amounts provided. Nine Months Ended September 30, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 95.3 $ 127.2 Net cash used in investing activities (191.2) (204.6) Net cash used in financing activities (53.9) (16.6) Effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents 9.4 4.4 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (140.3) $ (89.6) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities consists of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities. During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities of $95.3 million was primarily the result of net income of $13.5 million, adjusted for non-cash expenses of $62.7 million, which primarily included stock-based compensation expenses of $53.5 million and depreciation and amortization of $19.0 million, and the benefit of changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions of $19.1 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities of $127.2 million was primarily the result of net income of $18.8 million adjusted for non-cash expenses of $52.4 million, which primarily include stock-based compensation expenses of $48.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $12.7 million, and the benefit of changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions of $56.0 million. Net cash provided by operating activities was $95.3 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to $127.2 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. The decrease of $31.9 million in our net cash provided by operating activities was primarily related to a net increase in our operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisitions of $19.1 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to a net increase of $56.0 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2024. This decrease was driven by a change in funds receivable from payment partners of $26.3 million compared to the prior period, as a result of the timing of collections from our partners in the applicable period, and a decrease in prepaid expenses, other current assets and other assets of $13.4 million, as a result of the timing of payments for certain prepaid subscriptions and other receivables. The timing of collections from our partners will vary from period to period based on when our clients customer payment for a particular transaction is made, as well as the customers payment method which impacts the timing of settlement of the payment. This net decrease in cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by our operating cash flows from our net income (after adjustments for an increase in non-cash expenses of $10.3 million) which decreased by $5.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2025, compared to the prior period. This decrease is reflective of lower interest income as a result of our lower cash balances due to the acquisition of Sertifi and Share Repurchase Program, higher interest expense as a result of our outstanding debt, and higher income taxes as a result of a non-recurring benefit relating to the release of a portion of the valuation allowance in the U.S. in the nine months ending September 30, 2024. This was offset by income from operations reflecting the growth in transaction payment volumes, from both our existing clients and new 56 clients, net of the increase in payment processing costs, and gains in foreign currency remeasurement of foreign currency. Investing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, cash used in investing activities of $191.2 million was primarily the result of our acquisition of Sertifi for cash purchase consideration of $324.9 million, net of cash acquired and purchase of short-term and long-term investments for $14.2 million, offset by the proceeds from the maturity and sale of short-term and long-term investments of $154.7 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, cash used in investing activities of $204.6 million was the result of $159.6 million of purchase of short-term and long-term investments and $45.4 million for our acquisition of Invoiced for cash purchase consideration paid, partially offset by $5.9 million of proceeds from the maturity and sale of short-term and long-term investments. Financing Activities During the nine months ended September 30, 2025, cash used in financing activities of $53.9 million was primarily the result of the repayment of $110.0 million on our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility and common stock repurchased under our Repurchase Program of $64.3 million, offset by the drawdown of our 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility of $125.0 million. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, cash used in financing activities of $16.6 million was the result of common stock repurchased under our Repurchase Program of $22.9 million, offset by proceeds from exercise of stock options of $4.0 million and proceeds from issuance of stock under the ESPP of $3.1 million. As of September 30, 2025 there was $15.0 million outstanding under the 2024 Amended Revolving Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2024 there was no outstanding indebtedness under the 2024 Revolving Credit Facility. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated, and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We have reviewed all recently issued standards and have determined that, other than as disclosed in Note 1 - Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, such standards are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or do not otherwise apply to our operations.