Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Some of the information contained in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. You should read the sections titled Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Our fiscal year end is December 31, and our fiscal quarters end on March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31. Overview Flywire is a leading global payments enablement and software company. Our next-gen payments platform, proprietary global payment network and vertical-specific software help our clients get paid and help their customers pay with easeno matter where they are in the world. Our clients rely on us for integrated solutions that are both global and local, and combine tailored invoicing, flexible payment options, and highly personalized omni-channel experiences. We believe we make generational advances for our clients by transforming payments into a source of value and growth for their organizations while delighting their customers with payment experiences that are engaging, secure, fast, and transparent. Our Flywire Advantage is derived from three core elements: (i) our next-gen payments platform; (ii) our proprietary global payment network; and (iii) our vertical-specific software backed by our deep industry expertise. With our Flywire Advantage, we aim to power the transformation of our clients accounts receivable functions by automating paper and check-based business processes in addition to creating interactive, digital payment experiences for their customers. As a result, clients who implement our payments and software solutions can see increased digital payments and improved accounts receivable, higher enrollment in payment plans, and a reduction in customer support inquiries. We help our clients turn their accounts receivable functions into strategic, value-enhancing areas of their organizations. We reach clients through various channels, with our direct channel being our primary go-to-market strategy. Our industry-experienced sales and relationship management teams bring expertise and local reach, and our solution combines high-tech and high-touch functions backed by 24x7 multilingual customer support, resulting in high client and customer satisfaction. In addition, the value of our Flywire Advantage has been recognized, with global financial institutions and technology providers choosing to form channel partnerships with us. These partnerships promote organic referral and lead generation opportunities and enhance our indirect sales strategy. 23 Table of Contents The combination of our differentiated solution and efficient go-to-market strategy has resulted in strong and consistent client growth. Rapid domestic and international payments volume growth. We have grown our total payment volume by approximately 36% period-over-period from $4.2 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2022 to $5.7 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Expanded global payments network. We have continued to add to the capabilities of our payment network by means of new local bank accounts and payment partners, and have expanded our global reach to over 240 countries and territories and more than 140 currencies. Enjoyable and personalized user experience. Our net promoter score (NPS) score of 62 in fiscal year 2022 demonstrates a strong affinity among our clients for our platform. Strong dollar-based net retention. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our annual net dollar-based retention rate was approximately 124%. We calculate the annual net dollar-based retention rate for a given year based on the weighted average of the quarterly net dollar-based retention rates for each quarter in that year. We calculate the quarterly net dollar-based retention rate for a given quarter by dividing the revenue we earned in that quarter by the revenue we earned from the same clients in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. Our calculation of quarterly net dollar-based revenue rate for a given quarter only includes revenue from clients that were clients at the beginning of the corresponding quarter of the previous year. As of March 31, 2023, we serve over 3,300 clients around the world. In education, we serve more than 2,400 institutions. In healthcare, we power more than 80 healthcare systems, including four of the top 10 healthcare systems in the United States ranked by hospital size as of December 31, 2022. In our newer payment verticals of travel and business-to-business (B2B) payments, we have a growing portfolio of more than 600 clients as of March 31, 2023. 24 Table of Contents Our success in building our client base around the world and expanding utilization by our clients customers has allowed us to achieve significant scale. We enabled approximately $18.1 billion and $5.7 billion in total payment volume during the year ended December 31, 2022 and three months ended March 31, 2023, respectively. We generated revenue of $289.4 million and $201.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and incurred net losses of $39.3 million and $28.1 million, respectively, for the same years. We generated revenue of $94.4 million and $64.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and incurred net loss of $3.7 million and $10.1 million, respectively, for the same periods. We believe that the growth of our business and our operating results will be dependent upon many factors, including our ability to add new clients, expand the usage of our solutions by our existing clients and their customers, and increase the breadth and depth of our payments and software capabilities by adding new solutions. While these areas present significant opportunities for us, they also pose challenges and risks that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and improve our operating results. While we have experienced significant growth and increased demand for our solutions over recent periods, we expect to continue to incur losses in the short term and may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our marketing is focused on generating leads to develop our sales pipeline, building our brand and market awareness, scaling our network of partners and growing our business from our existing client base. We believe that these efforts will result in an increase in our client base, revenues, and improved margins in the long term. To manage any future growth effectively, we must continue to improve and expand our information technology (IT) and financial infrastructure, our operating and administrative systems and controls, and our ability to manage headcount, capital, and processes in an efficient manner. Additionally, we face intense competition in our market, and to succeed, we need to innovate and offer solutions that are differentiated from legacy payment solutions. We must also effectively hire, retain, train, and motivate qualified personnel and senior management. There are also circumstances beyond our control which can materially impact our business that we need to respond to, including, but not limited to, the ongoing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and fluctuations in exchange rates. If we are unable to successfully address these challenges, our business, operating results, and prospects could be adversely affected. Recent Acquisition In July 2022, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Cohort Go for an estimated aggregate purchase consideration of $23.1 million, consisting of $17.1 million in cash, net of cash acquired, $4.3 million in shares of common stock and up to $1.7 million in contingent consideration. Contingent consideration represented additional payments that Flywire was required to make which was dependent upon Cohort Go's achievement of specific post-acquisition milestones and was subject to exchange rate fluctuation adjustment between the U.S. Dollar and Australian Dollar. During March 2023, the Company made a payment of contingent consideration in the amount of $1.7 million, in the form of cash, based on Cohort Go's successful and timely achievement of the contracted milestones. No additional contingent consideration is due or payable with respect to the Cohort Go acquisition. Cohort Go is an Australian-based education payments provider that simplifies the student recruitment process by bringing together students, agents and essential student services such as health insurance into one platform. The acquisition of Cohort Go accelerated the growth of Flywire's agent related revenue and contributed to our global expansion. Cohort Go contributed $3.5 million in transaction revenue and $2.5 million in platform revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Our Revenue Model We derive revenue from transactions and platform and usage-based fees. Transaction revenue is earned from payment processing services provided to our clients. The fee earned on each transaction consists of a rate applied to the total payment value of the transaction, which can vary based on the payment method currency pair conversion and the geographic region in which our client and the clients customer resides. We also earn revenue from marketing fees from credit card service providers for marketing arrangements in which we perform certain marketing activities which we consider to be ancillary to the solutions we provide to our clients. Platform and usage-based fee revenue includes (i) fees earned for the utilization of our payment platform to optimize cash collections, (ii) fees collected on payment plans established by our clients on our payment platform, (iii) subscription fees and (iv) fees related to printing and mailing services which we consider to be ancillary to the solutions we provide to our clients. 25 Table of Contents Key Operating Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP), we use certain non-GAAP financials measures. The following table sets forth our key operating metrics and non-GAAP measures for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Total Payment Volume $ 5,667.9 $ 4,173.7 Revenue $ 94.4 $ 64.6 Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 89.1 $ 59.3 Gross Profit $ 58.3 $ 38.8 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 59.9 $ 40.0 Gross Margin 61.8 % 60.1 % Adjusted Gross Margin 67.2 % 67.5 % Net Loss $ (3.7 ) $ (10.1 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 7.0 $ 1.9 For the three months ended March 31, 2023, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 80.8% and 19.2% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 85.2% and 14.8% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 75.4% and 24.6% of our revenue, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue represented 81.5% and 18.5% of our total revenue less ancillary services, respectively. For the three months ended March 31, 2023, our total payment volume was approximately $5.7 billion, consisting of $3.8 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $1.9 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and usage-based fee revenue. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, our total payment volume was approximately $4.2 billion, consisting of $2.5 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in transaction revenue, and $1.7 billion of total payment volume from transactions included in platform and usage-based fee revenue. Total Payment Volume To grow revenue from clients we must facilitate the use of our payment platform by our clients to process the amounts paid to them by their customers. The more our clients use our platform and rely upon our features to automate their payments, the more payment volume is processed on our solution. This metric provides an important indication of the value of the transactions that our clients customers are completing on our payment platform and is an indicator of our ability to generate revenue from our clients. We define total payment volume as the total amount paid to our clients on our payments platform in a given period. Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and better project our future consolidated financial performance as forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures provide our stakeholders with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented here. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. 26 Table of Contents We use supplemental measures of our performance which are derived from our consolidated financial information, but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include the following: Revenue Less Ancillary Services - Revenue Less Ancillary Services represents our consolidated revenue in accordance with GAAP less (i) pass-through cost for printing and mailing services and (ii) marketing fees. We exclude these amounts to arrive at this supplemental non-GAAP financial measure as we view these services as ancillary to the primary services we provide to our clients. Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency - Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency represents Revenue Less Ancillary Services adjusted to show presentation on a constant currency basis. The constant currency information presented is calculated by translating current period results using prior period weighted average foreign currency exchange rates. We analyze Revenue Less Ancillary Services on a constant currency basis to provide a comparable framework for assessing how the business performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations. Adjusted Gross Profit - Adjusted Gross Profit represents Revenue Less Ancillary Services, less cost of revenue adjusted to (i) exclude pass-through cost for printing services, (ii) offset marketing fees against costs incurred and (iii) exclude depreciation and amortization, including accelerated amortization on the impairment of customer set-up costs tied to technology integration, if applicable. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross profit with a useful measure of the gross profit of our payment-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. Adjusted Gross Margin - Adjusted Gross Margin represents Adjusted Gross Profit divided by Revenue Less Ancillary Services. Management believes this presentation supplements the GAAP presentation of gross margin with a useful measure of the gross margin of our payment-related services, which are the primary services we provide to our clients. Beginning with the quarter ended December 31, 2022, we have excluded depreciation and amortization from the calculation of our adjusted gross profit, which we believe enhances the understanding of the Companys operating performance and enables more meaningful period to period comparisons. Our adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were recast to conform to the updated methodology and are reflected herein for comparison purposes. Adjusted EBITDA - Adjusted EBITDA represents EBITDA further adjusted by excluding (i) stock-based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, (ii) the impact from the change in fair value measurement for contingent consideration associated with acquisitions, (iii) interest income, (iv) gain (loss) from the remeasurement of foreign currency, (v) indirect taxes related to intercompany activity (vi) acquisition related transaction costs, if applicable and (vii) employee retention costs, such as incentive compensation, associated with acquisition activities. Management believes that the exclusion of these amounts to calculate Adjusted EBITDA provides useful measures for period-to-period comparisons of our business. These non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for revenue, gross margin or net loss prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are presented below. We encourage you to review these reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The tables below provide reconciliations of Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin and Adjusted EBITDA to the most comparable GAAP figure on a consolidated basis for the periods presented. 27 Table of Contents Revenue Less Ancillary Services, Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Revenue $ 94.4 $ 64.6 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.9 ) (4.9 ) Marketing fees (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 89.1 $ 59.3 Payment processing services costs 33.9 24.3 Hosting and amortization costs within technology and development expenses 2.2 1.5 Cost of Revenue $ 36.1 $ 25.8 Adjusted to: Exclude printing and mailing costs (4.9 ) (4.9 ) Offset marketing fees against related costs (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Exclude depreciation and amortization (1.6 ) (1.2 ) Adjusted Cost of Revenue $ 29.2 $ 19.3 Gross Profit $ 58.3 $ 38.8 Gross Margin 61.8 % 60.1 % Adjusted Gross Profit $ 59.9 $ 40.0 Adjusted Gross Margin 67.2 % 67.5 % (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and Usage-Based Fee Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 Revenue $ 76.3 $ 18.1 $ 94.4 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.9 ) (4.9 ) Marketing fees (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 75.9 $ 13.2 $ 89.1 Percentage of Revenue 80.8 % 19.2 % 100.0 % Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 85.2 % 14.8 % 100.0 % (dollars in millions) Transaction Platform and Usage-Based Fee Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Revenue $ 48.7 $ 15.9 $ 64.6 Adjusted to exclude gross up for: Pass-through cost for printing and mailing (4.9 ) (4.9 ) Marketing fees (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services $ 48.3 $ 11.0 $ 59.3 Percentage of Revenue 75.4 % 24.6 % 100.0 % Percentage of Revenue Less Ancillary Services 81.5 % 18.5 % 100.0 % Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency: Three Months Ended March 31, Growth Rate (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 Revenue $ 94.4 $ 64.6 46.1 % Ancillary services (5.3 ) (5.3 ) Revenue Less Ancillary Services 89.1 59.3 50.3 % Effects of foreign currency rate fluctuations $ 3.8 Revenue Less Ancillary Services at Constant Currency $ 92.9 $ 59.3 56.7 % 28 Table of Contents EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net loss $ (3.7 ) $ (10.1 ) Interest expense 0.1 0.2 Provision for income taxes 0.4 0.5 Depreciation and amortization 3.8 2.9 EBITDA 0.6 (6.5 ) Stock-based compensation expense and related taxes 9.0 5.5 Change in fair value of contingent consideration 0.4 (0.1 ) Interest income (1.9 ) (Gain) loss from remeasurement of foreign currency (1.5 ) 2.3 Indirect taxes related to intercompany activity 0.1 0.1 Acquisition related employee retention costs (1) 0.3 0.6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 7.0 $ 1.9 (1) Acquisition related employee retention costs consisted of costs incurred to retain and compensate WPMs employees in connection with integration of the business. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Increased Utilization by Our Clients and Their Customers Our ability to monetize our payments platform and global payment network is an important part of our business model. Today, we charge a fee based on the total payment volume we process on behalf of our clients. Our revenue and payment volume increases as our clients process more transactions on our payment platform and more money is collected through our global payment network. Increased average size of the payments processed on our payment platform also increases our revenue. Our ability to influence clients to process more transactions on our platform will have a direct impact on our revenue. In addition, sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new clients and further adoption of use cases such as payment plans, by our clients customers. Our ability to influence our clients to expand their customers usage of our platform also depends on our ability to successfully introduce new solutions, such as our solutions to support payments by international education consultants and our B2B solutions. Mix of Business on Our Platform Our revenue is affected by several factors, including the amount of payment volume processed by us on behalf of our clients, the industry in which our clients operate, the currency in which payments are made and received, the method of payment and the number of payment plans initiated by our clients customers. For example, we recognize more transaction revenue as our clients engage in cross border payment flows which may increase or decrease depending on the industry in which our clients operate. We may experience shifts in the type of revenue we earn (transaction revenue or platform and usage-based fee revenue) depending on the nature of the activity of our clients and our clients customers on our platform. Investment in Technology and Development and Sales and Marketing We make significant investments in both new solutions and existing solution enhancement. New solution features and functionality are brought to market through a variety of distribution and promotional activities. We plan to continue to adopt emerging technologies, expand our library of software integrations and invest in the development of more features. While we expect our expenses related to technology and development to increase, we believe these investments will contribute to long-term growth and profitability. Additionally, we plan to continue to expand efforts to market our payment platform and global payment network directly to our clients through comprehensive marketing initiatives. We are focused on the effectiveness of sales and marketing spending and will continue to be strategic in maintaining efficient client acquisition in the next quarters, including adjusting spending levels as needed in response to changes in the economic environment. 29 Table of Contents Seasonality Our operating results and operating metrics are subject to seasonality and volatility, which could result in fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and operating results or in perceptions of our business prospects. We have experienced in the past, and expect to continue to experience, seasonal fluctuations in our revenue, which can vary by geographic corridor. For instance, our revenue has historically been strongest in our first and third quarters and weakest in our second quarter. Some variability results from seasonal events including the timing of when our education clients customers make their tuition payments on our payment platform and the number of business days in a month or quarter. We also experience volatility in certain other metrics, such as transactions processed, total payment volume and payment mix. Economic Conditions and Resulting Consumer Spending Trends Changes in macro-level consumer spending for education, healthcare and travel trends, including as a result of COVID-19 pandemic, inflation or fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could affect the amounts of volumes processed on our platform, thus resulting in fluctuations to our revenue streams. Impact of the Conflict between Russia and Ukraine We do not have any operations, including long-lived assets, in Ukraine or Russia, and to our knowledge, our clients do not receive material amounts of payments from payers in these regions. We are actively monitoring the situation in Ukraine and assessing its impact on our business, but as of the issuance date of these condensed consolidated financial statements, the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine has not had a material impact on the Companys revenue, results of operations or financial position. However, we have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the conflict or its impacts in Ukraine, Russia or Belarus as the conflict, and any resulting government reactions, are rapidly developing and beyond our control. The extent and duration of the military action, sanctions and resulting market disruptions could be significant and could potentially have a substantial impact on the global economy and our business for an unknown period of time. Ukraine is a major engineering hub and the conflict may create a global challenge in outsourcing or hiring engineering talent. In addition, we have put in place and continue to actively manage a program to comply with government sanctions imposed on Russian persons and financial institutions. Also, providers of payment and accounts receivable software have frequently been targeted by cyber threats and due to the war in the Ukraine and continued political uncertainty involving Russia and Ukraine and potentially other regions of Europe, there is an increased likelihood that escalation of tensions could result in cyber-attacks that could either directly or indirectly impact our operations. We continue to invest in systems, software and personnel to protect against these enhanced threats, but any failure to protect against such attacks, could result in unauthorized access to or leakage of, sensitive data, or compromise our ability to provide our solutions in a timely manner, which could harm our ability to conduct business or delay our financial reporting. Such failures could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Impact of Inflation We do not believe that inflation had a material effect on our cash flows and results of operations during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Diversified Mix of Clients We have a wide range of clients across education, healthcare, travel and B2B. Following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, there was a temporary deceleration of payment volumes and revenue from education clients relying on international enrollments due to the uncertainty of borders re-opening. Since 2021, borders have continued to open allowing for an increase in international students to attend education clients. We expect this trend to continue throughout the year for our education clients, although ongoing COVID-19 related restrictions in China have slowed the growth of Chinese students studying in the U.S. and may have resulted in changes in Chinese student education destinations. Additionally, the opening of borders and abatement of COVID-19 restrictions has increased travel abroad and we expect travel to continue to return to pre-pandemic levels. Dynamic Changes to Client Communication and Product Solutions In response to the macroeconomic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we initiated a series of refinements to our technology and personalization engine to optimize our clients ability to offer payment plans and communicate effectively and digitally with their customers. For example, we developed streamlined versions of our solution that allowed healthcare clients to rapidly deploy secure payment capabilities in support of newly emergent telehealth services that were deployed 30 Table of Contents in the early phases of the COVID-19 to enable remote healthcare services. Similarly, we configured some of our education payment plan solutions for a very streamlined implementation in support of our clients requests for affordability solutions for their students that could be deployed with minimal IT involvement. While we continue to invest in our technology and product capabilities, our ability to continue providing streamlined and effective products through our technology platform may impact our ability to retain and win new clients in the future. We believe that our ability to help increase payment affordability has become more critical to our clients during the COVID-19 pandemic as the lack of affordability drives the need for more financial flexibility. Business Continuity In response to COVID-19 developments, we implemented measures to focus on the safety of our FlyMates and support of our clients, while at the same time seeking to mitigate the impact on our financial position and operations. We have implemented remote working capabilities for our entire organization and to date, there has been minimal disruption to our operations. During the Spring of 2020, due to initial COVID-19 uncertainty, we reduced our workforce by approximately 12%. From July 2020 through March 31, 2023, our workforce increased by approximately 125% in order to meet the demand of client growth and life as a public company with the goal of ensuring continuity and growth. As vaccination rates have increased, our offices have reopened, although FlyMates have the flexibility to work remotely. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from transactions and platform and usage-based fees as described below. Transaction Revenue Transaction revenue consists of a fee based on the total payment volume processed through our payment platform and global payment network. The fee can vary depending on the geographic region in which our client and clients customer resides, the payment method selected by our clients customer and the currencies in which the transaction is completed on our solution. Fees received are reported as revenue upon the completion of payment processing transaction. Our revenue mix fluctuates and as more revenue is derived from credit cards our adjusted gross margin goes down. We also earn marketing fees from credit card service providers for marketing arrangements in which we perform certain marketing activities to increase the awareness of the credit card provider and promote certain methods of payments on our payment platform. Fees from these marketing services are recognized as revenue when we complete our obligations under the marketing arrangements. We do not expect our marketing services revenue to be material in future periods. Platform and Usage-Based Fee Revenue We earn revenue from many of our clients based on the amount of accounts receivable they collect through our platform. For these services, we are paid a platform and usage-based fee based on the total payment volume that our clients collect. We also earn revenue from clients customers when they enter into a payment plan and make actual payments against a payment plan in satisfying their obligation to our client. Additionally, we earn a subscription fee from some of our clients for their use of our payment platform. Finally, we earn fees from providing other ancillary services to our clients including printing and mailing services. Our insurance offering provides students a platform which enables them to compare, select and purchase the mandated health insurance coverage needed. We earn a commission from insurance providers when a student purchases an insurance policy as well as consideration from the student in the form of a markup on the foreign exchange rate. Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs consist of costs incurred to process payment transactions which include banking and credit card processing fees, foreign currency translation costs, partner fees, personnel-related expenses for our FlyMates who facilitate these payments and personnel related expenses for our FlyMates who provide implementation services to our clients. We expect that payment processing services costs will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period, as we continue to invest in scaling our processing operations and grow our revenue base. 31 Table of Contents Technology and Development Technology and development includes (a) costs incurred in connection with the development of our solution and the improvement of existing solutions, including the amortization of software and website development costs incurred in developing our solution, which are capitalized, and acquired developed technology, (b) site operations and other infrastructure costs incurred, (c) amortization related to capitalized cost to fulfill a contract, (d) personnel-related expenses, including salaries, stock based compensation and other expenses, (e) hardware and software engineering, consultant services and other costs associated with our technology platform and products, (f) research materials and facilities, and (g) depreciation and maintenance expense. We believe delivering new functionality is critical to attract new clients and expand our relationship with existing clients. We expect to continue to make investments to expand our solutions in order to enhance our clients experience and satisfaction, and to attract new clients. We expect our technology and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, but they may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period as we expand our technology and development team to develop new solutions and enhancements to existing solutions. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense, sales commissions, amortization of acquired client relationship intangible assets, marketing program expenses, travel related expenses and costs to market and promote our solutions through advertisements, marketing events, partnership arrangements, and direct client acquisition. We focus our sales and marketing efforts on generating awareness of our business, platform, and solutions, creating sales leads, and establishing and promoting our brand. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing efforts by driving our go-to-market strategies, building our brand awareness, and sponsoring additional marketing events; however, we will adjust our sales and marketing spend level as needed, and this may fluctuate from period to period, in response to changes in the economic environment. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation expense for finance, risk management, legal and compliance, human resources and IT functions, costs incurred for external professional services, as well as rent, and facility and insurance costs. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses as we continue to invest in our planned growth of our business. We also expect to increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth in the business, and to operate as a public company. As a result, we expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars but may fluctuate as a percentage of total revenue from period to period. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest on our Revolving Credit Facility, interest on ROU assets and amortization of debt issuance cost and debt discount from our previous LSA. On July 29, 2021, we entered into a $50.0 million Revolving Credit Facility. We drew $25.9 million on the Revolving Credit Facility and used the proceeds to prepay our then existing LSA. On October 28, 2022, we repaid the $25.9 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. As a result, we continue to have access to a total commitment of $50.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility has an adjustable rate of interest based on the type of loan requested, either at an annual rate based on the ABR, which references the prime rate plus an applicable rate or LIBO Rate plus an applicable rate. Loans based on ABR bear interest at a rate between ABR plus 0.75% and ABR plus 1.25%, and loans based on LIBO Rate bear interest at a rate between LIBO Rate plus 1.75% and LIBO Rate plus 2.25%, depending on our liquidity. Interest Income Interest income consists of income on cash held in interest bearing accounts, including money market funds. Gain (loss) from Remeasurement of Foreign Currency Gain (loss) from remeasurement of foreign currency consists of gains and losses from the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions into its functional currency. 32 Table of Contents Provision for Income Tax Provision for income taxes consists primarily of foreign and state income taxes. We have historically generated net operating losses (NOL) carryforwards for U.S. Federal and state tax purposes as we expand the scale of our business activities. Changes in the U.S. and foreign tax law may impact our overall provision for income taxes in the future. We have a valuation allowance for our U.S. deferred tax assets, including federal and state NOLs. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized through expected future taxable income generated in the United States. Results of Operations Comparison of results for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 The following table sets forth our consolidated results of operations for periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 94.4 $ 64.6 $ 29.8 46.1 % Payment processing services costs 33.9 24.3 9.6 39.5 % Technology and development 14.5 11.0 3.5 31.8 % Selling and marketing 24.4 17.6 6.8 38.6 % General and administrative 28.1 18.8 9.3 49.5 % Total costs and operating expense 100.9 71.7 29.2 40.7 % Loss from operations (6.6 ) (7.1 ) 0.5 (7.0 )% Interest expense (0.1 ) (0.2 ) 0.1 (50.0 )% Interest income 1.9 1.9 100.0 % Gain (loss) from remeasurement of foreign currency 1.5 (2.3 ) 3.8 (165.2 )% Total other income (expense), net 3.3 (2.5 ) 5.8 (232.0 )% Loss before provision for income taxes (3.3 ) (9.6 ) 6.3 (65.6 )% Provision for income taxes 0.4 0.5 (0.1 ) (20.0 )% Net loss (3.7 ) (10.1 ) 6.4 (63.4 )% Foreign currency translation adjustment (0.4 ) (0.1 ) (0.3 ) 300.0 % Comprehensive loss $ (4.1 ) $ (10.2 ) $ 6.1 (59.8 )% Revenue Revenue was $94.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $64.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $29.8 million or 46.1%. Revenue is comprised of transaction revenue and platform and usage-based fee revenue as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (dollars in millions) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Transaction revenue $ 76.3 $ 48.7 $ 27.6 56.7 % Platform and usage-based fee revenue 18.1 15.9 2.2 13.8 % Revenue $ 94.4 $ 64.6 $ 29.8 46.1 % Transaction revenue was $76.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $48.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $27.6 million or 56.7%. The increase in transaction revenue was primarily driven by growth in transaction payment volumes, from both our existing clients and new clients as well as the addition of Cohort Go transaction products during the three months ended March 31, 2023. We experienced strong growth in payment volume across all regions and verticals during the period. Total payment volume increased 36% during the three months ended March 31, 2023 to $5.7 billion. Our marketing services revenue remained consistent during the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2022. Platform and usage-based fee revenue was $18.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $15.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $2.2 million or 13.8%. The increase in platform and usage-based fee revenue was partially driven by the Cohort Go acquisition and increased usage by our clients and new clients signed during the three months ended March 31, 2023. 33 Table of Contents Payment Processing Services Costs Payment processing services costs were $33.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $24.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $9.6 million or 39.5%. The increase in payment processing services costs is correlated with the increase in total payment volume of 36% over the same period as well as increased use of credit cards, which have higher processing costs. Technology and Development Technology and development expenses were $14.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $11.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $3.5 million or 31.8%. The increase in technology and development cost was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, stock-based compensation expense and amortization expense. Personnel costs were $9.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $7.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $2.3 million or 32.9%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount within our technology and development teams. Stock-based compensation expense was $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.8 million or 80.0%. The increase in stock-based compensation is attributable to equity grants awarded to existing and new FlyMates. Amortization of intangible assets was $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.3 million or 20.0%. The increase in amortization expense was primarily due to acquired relationships related to the Cohort Go acquisition. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expenses were $24.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $17.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $6.8 million or 38.6%. The increase in selling and marketing expenses was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, professional fees, stock-based compensation and amortization expense, offset by a decrease in marketing costs. Personnel costs were $13.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $3.0 million or 28.3%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount within our selling and marketing teams and commissions earned on sales during the period. Professional fees were $4.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $2.6 million or 136.8%. The increase in professional fees was due to increases in third party commissions and consulting fees. Stock-based compensation was $2.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $1.1 million or 84.6%. The increase in stock-based compensation is attributable to equity grants awarded to existing and new FlyMates. Amortization of intangibles was $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.2 million or 20.0%. The increase in amortization expense was due to acquired customer relationships related to the Cohort Go acquisition. Marketing costs were $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $0.3 million or 20.0%. The decrease in marketing costs was due to decrease in marketing initiatives and hosted events. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses were $28.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $18.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $9.3 million or 49.5%. The increase in general and administrative expenses was primarily driven by an increase in personnel costs, other costs, professional fees, stock-based compensation, software and hosting expenses, and a change in the fair value of contingent consideration. Personnel costs were $10.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $3.1 million or 41.3%. The increase in personnel costs was primarily driven by an increase in headcount. Other costs were $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $2.0 million or 285.7%. The increase in other costs is primarily due to increased hedging fees related to an increase in total payment volume and indirect taxes recorded during the period. Professional fees were $4.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $1.8 million or 62.1%. The increase in professional fees was due to increased legal, consulting and audit fees as a result of becoming a public company. Stock-based compensation was $4.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $3.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $1.1 million or 34.4%. The increase in stock-based compensation is attributable to equity grants awarded to existing and new FlyMates. Software and hosting expenses were $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $1.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.6 million or 34 Table of Contents 46.2%. The increase in software and hosting expenses was primarily related to increased hosting fees based on payment volumes growth and additional software needs based on headcount growth. Change in the fair value of contingent consideration was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $(0.1) million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $0.5 million or 500.0%. The increase in the change in the fair value of contingent consideration was due to the Cohort Go acquisition during 2022. Interest Expense Interest expense was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $0.1 million or (50.0)%. On October 28, 2022, we repaid the $25.9 million outstanding under our Revolving Credit Facility, which resulted in no interest expense on debt for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2023 consists of interest on ROU assets and amortization of debt issuance cost and debt discount from our previous LSA. Interest Income Interest income was $1.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 2022, an increase of $1.9 million or 100%. The increase in interest income was due to the Company's investment in interest bearing accounts during the second quarter of 2022. Gain (loss) from Remeasurement of Foreign Currency Gain (loss) from remeasurement of foreign currency was $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $(2.3) million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, a decrease of $3.8 million or (165.2)%. The decrease was primarily the result of the remeasurement of foreign currency transactions into the British pound sterling and impact of fluctuations in exchange rates during respective remeasurement periods. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes was $0.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2023, compared to $0.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, an decrease of $0.1 million or (20.0)%. The income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 was primarily attributable to activity in our foreign subsidiaries and U.S. state taxes. Our effective tax rate was (12.5)% for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to (5.1)% for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from sales of equity securities, credit facilities and payments received from our clients as further detailed below. As of March 31, 2023, our principal source of liquidity is cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash of $329.1 million. Cash equivalents is comprised primarily of money market funds. We believe that our existing cash will be sufficient to support our expected working capital needs and material cash requirements for at least the next 12 months from the issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our revenue growth rate, the timing and the amount of cash received from clients, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the price at which we are able to purchase public cloud capacity, expenses associated with our international expansion, the introduction of platform enhancements, and the continuing market adoption of our platform. In the future, we may enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, products, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that we require additional financing, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital or generate cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in continued innovation, we may not be able to compete successfully, which would harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations consist of operating leases that relate to real estate for our primary facilities. The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2023: 35 Table of Contents Payments Due by Year (in thousands) Total Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 4 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 2,797 $ 1,619 $ 1,178 $ Total 2,797 1,619 1,178 Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flow information for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (20.8 ) $ (17.0 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1.8 ) (1.3 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 1.8 (3.0 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1.2 ) 1.7 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash. $ (22.1 ) $ (19.6 ) Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities consists of net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in other assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in operating activities of $20.8 million was primarily the result of net loss of $3.7 million adjusted for non-cash expenses of $12.4 million, which primarily include stock-based compensation expenses of $8.6 million, depreciation and amortization of $3.7 million, change in fair value of contingent consideration of $0.4 million, offset by a deferred tax benefit of $0.6 million and $29.6 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in operating activities of $17.0 million was primarily the result of net loss of $10.1 million adjusted for non-cash expenses of $8.4 million, which primarily include stock-based compensation expenses of $5.5 million, depreciation and amortization of $2.8 million, non-cash interest expense of $0.1 million and amortization of deferred contract costs of $0.1 million, offset by $15.2 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Investing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash used in investing activities of $1.8 million was the result of the $1.4 million of capitalization of internally developed software and over $0.4 million of purchase of property plant and equipment. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in investing activities of $1.3 million was the result of the $1.2 million of capitalization of internally developed software and $0.1 million of purchase of property plant and equipment. Financing Activities During the three months ended March 31, 2023, cash provided by financing activities of $1.8 million was the result of proceeds from exercise of stock options of $2.1 million, proceeds from issuance of stock under the ESPP of $0.9 million, offset by payments for contingent consideration of $1.2 million related to our acquisition of Cohort Go. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, cash used in financing activities of $3.0 million was the result of payments for contingent consideration of $3.3 million related to our acquisition of Simplee, payments of tax withholdings for net settled option exercises of $0.8 million, offset by $1.1 million proceeds from the exercise of stock options. As of March 31, 2022, we had $25.9 million of outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility. On October 28, 2022, we repaid the $25.9 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2023, we had $0 of outstanding indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Facility. Following the repayment, we continue to have access to a total commitment of $50.0 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. The Revolving Credit Facility consists of ABR loans or Eurodollar Borrowings, at our option. ABR loans bear interest at the ABR plus the applicable rate. Eurodollar Borrowings bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate plus the applicable rate. The ABR rate is based on the 36 Table of Contents greatest of (a) the Prime Rate (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Adjusted LIBO Rate for a one-month Interest Period plus 1%. The adjusted LIBO Rate is based on (a) the LIBO Rate multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate. The applicable rate is based upon our liquidity as of the most recent consolidated financial information and ranges from 0.75% to 2.25%. The Revolving Credit Facility incurs a commitment fee ranging from 0.25% to 0.35% based upon our liquidity as of the most recent consolidated financial information assessed on the average undrawn portion of the available commitment. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenue generated, and reported expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements We have reviewed all recently issued standards and have determined that, other than as disclosed in Note 1 - Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, such standards are not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements or do not otherwise apply to our operations.