MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provide information that our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. This discussion and analysis should be read together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to those statements in this Report, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to those statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, as described under the heading Forward-Looking Statements. Actual results and timing of selected events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or elsewhere in this Report. This section discusses our results of operations for the current quarter ended March 31, 2023 compared to the immediately preceding prior quarter ended December 31, 2022 as well as the corresponding quarter of the prior year ended March 31, 2022. In this Report, we are changing the basis of comparison from the corresponding quarter of the prior year to the immediately preceding prior quarter, in order to provide readers greater insight into our quarterly performance given the macroeconomic environment. We believe that quarter-over-quarter comparisons are more indicative of the current state of the business. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this section to "Forge," the Company, we, us, and our, refer to Forge Global Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries following the Business Combination (as defined below). Business Overview Forge is building the private market of the future - a more accessible, transparent, and liquid market for participating in private market growth. We offer a trusted trading platform, proprietary data and insights to inform investment strategies, along with custody services to help companies, shareholders, institutions and accredited investors confidently navigate and transact in the private market. Our scaled and integrated business model is at the nexus of the private market ecosystem, which we believe creates a sustaining competitive advantage fueling our clients' participation in the private market and our growth. The key solutions offered by our platform include: Trading Solutions Forge Markets is our platform that connects potential investors with private company shareholders and enables them to efficiently facilitate private share transactions. Custody Solutions Forge Trust is our non-depository trust company that enables clients to securely custody and manage assets through a robust and user-friendly online portal. Data Solutions Forge Data is our data business that provides market participants the information and insight to confidently navigate, analyze, and make investment decisions in the private market. Corporate History and Background On March 21, 2022 (the Closing Date), we consummated our business combination pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated September 13, 2021 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Motive Capital Corp, a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company in 2020 ("MOTV"), FGI Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of MOTV (Merger Sub), and Forge Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Legacy Forge"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on the Closing Date, immediately prior to the consummation of the Business Combination (as defined below), MOTV changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from the Cayman Islands to the State of Delaware and changed its corporate name to "Forge Global Holdings, Inc." (the Domestication). On the Closing Date, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Forge (the "Merger"), with Legacy Forge surviving the Merger as a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (together with the Merger, the Domestication, and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Business Combination). Legacy Forge is considered the Companys accounting predecessor. The Merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization with Legacy Forge as the accounting acquirer and MOTV as the acquired company for accounting purposes. 33 Table of Contents Accordingly, all historical financial information presented in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements represents the accounts of Legacy Forge. Key Factors Affecting our Performance The key factors affecting our performance described below are not the only ones applicable to us. We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon a number of key factors, including the following: Growing our Customer Base Sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new customers and increased usage by current customers. We plan to continue to introduce products and features to attract and retain current and new customers, and we plan to seek to increase brand awareness and customer adoption of our platform through digital and broad-scale advertising. The circumstances that we believe can accelerate the growth of our customer base may not continue in the future. Expanding our Relationship with Existing Customers Our revenue has grown historically as we have introduced new products and features to our customers and as our customers have increased their usage of our platform. Additionally, we believe that our strategic evolution initiative centered around complementary solutions will further increase customer engagement. However, certain circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our business may not continue in the future. We aim to grow with our customers over time and to grow our relationship with our customers as they build and manage their wealth. Through our customer-centric and complementary solutions, we seek a future where sellers become buyers, buyers become custody account holders and account holders continue to participate in the private market. Our ability to expand our relationship with our customers is therefore an important contributor to our long-term growth. Investing in our Platform We intend to continue to invest in our platform capabilities and regulatory and compliance functions to support new and existing customers and products that we believe will drive our growth. As our customer base and platform functionalities expand, areas of investment priority include product innovation, automation, technology and infrastructure improvements and customer support. We believe these investments will contribute to our long-term growth. Additionally, we strive to strengthen our relationships with our customers by responding to customer feedback not only through the introduction of new products, but also through improvements to our existing products and services. In this period of market disruption, we are focused on building by improving our platform to drive down the cost and time of trading. Market Trends Our results of operations are impacted by the overall health of the economy, and consumer and institutional investing patterns, which include the following key drivers: Private Market Trends. As private market investing continues and the number of venture-backed companies and late-stage private growth companies fluctuate, our supply and demand will shift accordingly as such factors affect the number of existing shareholders looking for liquidity as well as potential investors interested in obtaining equity in such companies while they remain private. Although our operating history has coincided with a period of general macroeconomic growth in the United States, particularly in the U.S. equity markets, which has previously stimulated growth in overall investment activity on our platform, we have and may continue to be impacted by any slowdowns in growth or downturns and volatility in the private equity markets. Consumer Behavior. Buyers' and sellers' behaviors vary over time and are affected by numerous conditions. For example, behavior may be impacted by social or economic factors such as changes in disposable income levels and the need for liquidity, employee tenure at a venture-backed firm, general interest in investing, interest rate levels, and reaction to stock market volatility. There may also be high profile IPOs, SPACs, or idiosyncratic events impacting single companies that impact consumer behavior. These shifts in consumer behavior may influence interest in our products over time. Macroeconomic Events. Customer and business behavior is impacted by the overall macroeconomic environment. Continued inflationary pressures led to monetary response measures by the Federal Reserve which increased interest 34 Table of Contents rates (by 425 basis points, to 4.33%, in 2022. As of the filing of this Report, the Federal Reserve raised interest rates by another 75 basis points, to 5.08%, in 2023), and has signaled additional raises are possible, if inflation is not controlled. This is potentially leading to a buildup of systemic financial vulnerabilities and asset valuation risks across public and private equity markets, real estate, and credit. Lowered economic growth forecasts and inverted yield curves have strengthened potential recession markers of an unknown duration, which indicates a period of prolonged uncertainty. Increased volatility and liquidity risks to private equity valuations, as well as uncertainty around settlement prices for illiquid assets, have and could continue to lead to negatively impacted investor appetite and investment preferences across the alternative investment and private markets space. The ongoing military conflict between Russia and Ukraine, increased geopolitical tensions, lingering effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and continued global supply chain disruptions, continue to affect energy and commodity prices buoying inflation and could affect both global business and individuals market response and behavior. Duration risk, exposure to fixed rate assets and concentrated deposits have recently made a few regional and global banks, as well as asset managers, vulnerable to rapid customer flight. This in turn has potentially increased liquidity and funding risks for public and private markets, even as financial institutions potentially tighten lending and underwriting standards. Custodial administration fees We generate revenues through fees for performing custodial account administrative and maintenance services for our customers, including quarterly or monthly account fees, asset fees, and transaction fees. We assess a flat fee per account, with additional fees based on the number and types of assets held and services purchased by account holders. We also receive cash administration fees for facilitating customers transactions with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") banks, with fees contingent on prevailing interest rates and cash balances in custodial accounts. Our revenues depend on the number of Total Custodial Accounts, which include accounts clients open directly with us and the activity within these accounts as well as accounts we custody on behalf of partners. Our business depends on maintaining and growing the number of Total Custodial Accounts. Types of Structures We have facilitated direct trades, trades in both our own special purpose vehicles (each, an "Investment Fund") and other firms funds, and certain forward agreements. We may adjust placement fees to account for the operational costs of these transaction types, and we incur certain transaction-based costs depending on the structure. The mix of trades in different structures will impact our overall take rate and revenues. Types of Buyers/Sellers The type of client may influence our placement fee revenue. Examples of a type of client are institutional and individual clients, who may receive various placement fee rates depending on different factors. Having clients that come to our platform through external brokers or Forge Company Solutions ("FCS") programs may also impact our placement fee revenue. The mix of clients in any given period will impact our overall take rate and revenues. Use of External Brokers and Referral Partners When working with an external broker or partner, we share a portion of the placement fees, which are recognized in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements under transaction-based expenses. The mix of fees paid to external brokers and partners fluctuates each time period, which we expect to continue based on the size of our order book and our number of partners, as well as changes in the market overall. Segment Information We operate as a single operating segment and reportable segment. Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance, allocating resources and evaluating our financial performance. Accordingly, we have concluded that we consist of a single operating segment and reportable segment for accounting and financial reporting purposes. 35 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We monitor the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. The tables below reflect period-over-period changes in our key business metrics, along with the percentage change between such periods. We believe the following business metrics are useful in evaluating our business: Three Months Ended QoQ YoY Dollars in thousands March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change TRADING BUSINESS Trades 306 532 596 (226) (42)% (290) (49)% Volume $128,163 $246,895 $417,961 $(118,732) (48)% $(289,798) (69)% Net Take Rate 3.6% 2.8% 3.5% 0.8% 29% 0.1% 3% Placement fee revenues, less transaction-based expenses $4,613 $6,816 $14,453 $(2,203) (32)% $(9,840) (68)% Trades are defined as the total number of orders executed by us and acquired entities buying and selling private stocks on behalf of private investors and shareholders. Increasing the number of orders is critical to increasing our revenue and, in turn, to achieving profitability. Volume is defined as the total sales value for all securities traded through our Forge Markets platform. Volume is defined as the aggregate value of the issuer companys equity attributed to both the buyer and seller in a trade and as such a $100 trade of equity between buyer and seller would be captured as $200 of volume for us. Although we typically capture a commission on each side of a trade, we may not in certain cases due to factors such as the use of an external broker by one of the parties or supply factors that would not allow us to attract sellers of shares of certain issuers. Volume is influenced by, among other things, the pricing and quality of our services as well as market conditions that affect private company valuations, such as increases in valuations of comparable companies at IPO. Net Take Rates are defined as our placement fee revenues, less transaction-based expenses (defined below), divided by Volume. These represent the percentage of fees earned by our platform on any transactions executed from the commission we charged on such transactions (less transaction-based expenses), which is a determining factor in our revenue. The Net Take Rate can vary based upon the service or product offering and is also affected by the average order size and transaction frequency. As of QoQ YoY Dollars in thousands March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change CUSTODY BUSINESS Total Custodial Accounts 1,937,248 1,871,146 2,228,101 66,102 4 % (290,853) (13) % Assets Under Custody $ 14,828,350 $ 14,870,257 $ 14,933,379 $ (41,907) % $ (105,029) (1) % Total Custodial Accounts, previously called Billable Core and Platform Accounts, are defined as our customers custodial accounts that are established on our platform and billable. These relate to our Custodial Administration fees revenue stream and are an important measure of our business as the number of Total Custodial Accounts is an indicator of our future revenues from certain account maintenance, transaction, and sub-account fees. Assets Under Custody is the reported value of all client holdings held under our agreements, including cash submitted to us by the responsible party. These assets can be held at various financial institutions, issuers, and in our vault. As the custodian of the accounts, we collect all interest and dividends, handle all fees and transactions and any other considerations for the assets concerned. Our fees are earned from the overall maintenance activities of all assets and are not charged on the basis of the dollar value of Assets Under Custody, but we believe that Assets Under Custody is a useful metric for assessing the relative size and scope of our business. 36 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("GAAP"), we present Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. We use Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding specific financial items that have less bearing on our core operating performance. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important measure because it helps illustrate underlying trends in our business and our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review Adjusted EBITDA and the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We defined Adjusted EBITDA as net loss, adjusted to exclude: (i) interest expense, net, (ii) provision for or benefit from income taxes, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) share-based compensation expense, (v) change in fair value of warrant liabilities, (vi) acquisition-related transaction costs, and (vii) other significant gains, losses, and expenses (such as impairments or transaction bonus) that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing results. The following table reconciles net loss to our Adjusted EBITDA for the periods presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Net loss $ (21,261) $ (26,164) $ (64,424) Add: Interest income (expense), net (1,509) (1,520) (21) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 185 121 123 Depreciation and amortization 1,789 1,495 1,082 Loss or impairment on long lived assets 536 265 Share-based compensation expense 7,401 11,950 8,522 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities (168) (27) 25,959 Acquisition-related transaction costs (1) (106) 3,706 Transaction bonus (2) 17,735 Adjusted EBITDA $ (13,027) $ (14,251) $ (7,053) (1)Acquisition-related transaction costs include transaction costs related to the Business Combination, which consisted of legal, accounting, and other professional services directly related to the Merger, direct and incremental expenses in connection with business acquisitions, which consist primarily of professional services fees for investment banking advisors, legal services, accounting advisory, and other external costs directly related to acquisitions and other strategic opportunities, including the formation of Forge Europe. (2)Represents a one-time transaction bonus to certain executives as a result of consummation of the Business Combination, included in the compensation and benefits in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Some of the limitations of Adjusted EBITDA include: (i) Adjusted EBITDA does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future, and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures. In evaluating Adjusted 37 Table of Contents EBITDA, be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP items excluded from Adjusted EBITDA. When evaluating our performance, consider Adjusted EBITDA in addition to, and not a substitute for, other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. Basis of Presentation The unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Report include our accounts and accounts of our consolidated subsidiaries and were prepared in accordance with GAAP. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from providing private market services, which include fees charged for private placements on our platform, and fees charged for account and asset management to customers. We categorize our services into the following three categories: Placement fees We maintain a platform which generates revenues through our Forge Markets offering with volume-based fees sourced from institutions, individual investors, and private equity holders. Placement fees represent fees charged by us for executing a private placement on our platform. We earn agency placement fees in non-underwritten transactions, such as private placements of equity securities. We enter into arrangements with individual accredited customers or Investment Funds to execute private placements in the secondary market. We anticipate placement fees to grow in the long run as the secondary market continues to grow and we continue to execute trades more efficiently. Placement fees also include revenues generated from our Data Solutions. Custodial administration fees We generate revenues primarily through fees for performing custodial account administrative and maintenance services for our customers, including quarterly or monthly account fees, asset fees, and transaction fees. We assess a flat fee per account, with additional fees based on the number and types of assets held and services purchased by account holders. We also receive cash administration fees for facilitating customers transactions with FDIC banks, with fees contingent on prevailing interest rates and cash balances in custodial accounts. Our revenues depend on the number of Total Custodial Accounts, which include accounts clients opened directly with us and the activity within these accounts as well as accounts we custody on behalf of partners. Revenues from custodial administration fees are recognized either over time as underlying performance obligations are met and day-to-day maintenance activities are performed for custodial accounts, or at a point in time upon completion of transactions requested by custodial account holders. Subscription Fees We generate revenues through our Forge Data offering with subscription fees earned from our data product, Forge Intelligence, and through our FCS fees. We anticipate subscription fees to continue to grow as we expand our sales and marketing efforts and develop more features and products. Subscription fees for the periods presented were included as part of placement fees in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Transaction-based expenses Transaction-based expenses represent fees incurred to support placement activities. These include, but are not limited to, those for fund management, fund and trade settlement, external broker fees, and transfer fees. We generally expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our placement fee revenue grows. Compensation and benefits Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant operating expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, share-based compensation, severance costs, benefits, and employer taxes. The incentive component of our compensation and benefits expense consists of amounts paid based on the achievement of sales targets and discretionary bonuses, which are based on both our financial performance and individual employee performance. We expect our compensation and benefits expense to increase, over the long term, as our revenue grows and we hire additional personnel to continue developing new products and services and increase the functionality of our platform. In addition, the share-based 38 Table of Contents compensation component of the compensation and benefits expense may or may not increase as we continue to align our headcount with current and future business needs. Professional services Professional services expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives, temporary labor, as well as regulatory, legal and accounting fees. We have and expect to incur additional professional services expenses as we continue implementing procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. Acquisition-related transaction costs Acquisition-related transaction costs consist primarily of professional services fees for investment banking advisors, legal services, accounting advisory, and other external costs directly related to acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. We expect to continue to explore and pursue various potential acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and support our growth. Acquisition-related transaction costs may be significant in relation to certain acquisitions, however, they are non-recurring in nature, as we identify and pursue targets for particular purposes as necessary. Acquisition-related transaction costs also include the costs related to the Business Combination, which consisted of legal, accounting, and other professional services directly related to the Business Combination, but not considered as part of issuance cost. As a result, we may or may not incur acquisition-related transaction costs in future periods. Advertising and market development Advertising and market development is an important driver of our value and we intend to continue making meaningful investments in the Forge brand and growth marketing. This includes brand advertising, thought leadership, content marketing, public relations, partnerships and other strategies that amplify our brand. We have a rigorous approach to measuring customer lifetime value and optimizing our customer acquisition investments according to market dynamics and effective return on investment ("ROI"). We manage our discretionary expenses in growth marketing in real-time, as audience-specific dynamics show positive ROI. We generally expect our marketing expenses to increase in the long term in absolute dollars but manage our spend judiciously and adapt as market conditions evolve. Rent and occupancy Rent and occupancy expense is related to our leased property and includes rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs. We generally expect our rent and occupancy expense to remain stable in the near term, increasing overtime in absolute dollars as a result of our expansion efforts. Technology and communications Technology and communications consist of costs for our hosting fees paid to third-party data centers, software development engineers, and maintenance of our computer hardware and software required to support our technology and cybersecurity. Technology and communications also include costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and telecommunications. We generally expect our technology and communications expense to increase, over the long term, as we continue to increase our headcount and innovate on our offerings and services. General and administrative General and administrative includes insurance, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, and other general and administrative costs. Our general and administrative expense has and we expect it to continue to increase in the near term as a result of operating as a public company, including regulatory fees associated with compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, New York Stock Exchange and other regulatory bodies, as well as increases in general office expenses as we grow our business. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization is attributable to property and equipment, intangible assets, and capitalized internal-use software. We expect our depreciation and amortization expense to increase for the foreseeable future as we plan additional capital expenditures to support the growth of our business. 40 Table of Contents interest income and other income (expense) Interest income primarily includes interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities Changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities, including Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants, are related to warrant liabilities that are marked-to-market each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations until the warrants are exercised, expire or other facts and circumstances lead the warrant liabilities to be reclassified to stockholders equity or deficit. Other income, net Other income, net, includes loss on an equity method investment, and other non-operating income and expenditures. Provision for (benefit from) income taxes Income tax expense consists of Federal, state and foreign income taxes. We maintain a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets except as relate to our indefinite-lived deferred tax liabilities as we have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will realize our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations for the interim periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses $ 15,460 $ 16,734 $ 19,890 Operating expenses: Compensation and benefits 25,762 30,450 43,640 Other 12,666 14,089 15,001 Total operating expenses 38,428 44,539 58,641 Operating loss $ (22,968) $ (27,805) $ (38,751) Total interest income and other income (expenses) 1,892 1,762 (25,550) Loss before provision for income taxes $ (21,076) $ (26,043) $ (64,301) Provision for income taxes 185 121 123 Net loss $ (21,261) $ (26,164) $ (64,424) Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interest (73) (46) Net loss attributable to Forge Global Holdings, Inc. $ (21,188) $ (26,118) $ (64,424) 41 Table of Contents Revenue Three Months Ended QoQ YoY (in thousands) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change Placement fees $ 4,632 $ 6,902 $ 14,585 $ (2,270) (33) % $ (9,953) (68) % Custodial administration fees 10,847 9,919 5,437 928 9 5,410 100 Total revenues $ 15,479 $ 16,821 $ 20,022 $ (1,342) (8) % $ (4,543) (23) % Transaction-based expenses (19) (87) (132) $ 68 (78) $ 113 (86) Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses $ 15,460 $ 16,734 $ 19,890 $ (1,274) (8) % $ (4,430) (22) % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses, decreased $1.3 million, or 8%. Placement fees revenue decreased by $2.3 million, or 33%, driven by a 42% decline in trading volumes offset, in part, by improvement in net take rate, which returned to more historical levels in the three months ended March 31, 2023. We attribute lower trading volumes to macroeconomic and geopolitical instability that triggered a higher spread between the price sellers are asking for their shares and the price at which buyers want to buy. We believe buyers have also paused activity due to high market volatility and uncertain market conditions. Net take rate in the three months endedDecember 31, 2022 was lower due to non-commissionable third party fund orders. Custodial administration fees increased by $0.9 million, or 9%, driven by the rising interest rate environment leading to increased revenue for cash administration services. The decline in assets under custody is primarily attributable to declining cash deposits, as customers shift balances to higher yielding investments. To the extent this trend continues, and interest rates stabilize or decline, custodial administration fee revenue could decline. Total custodial accounts increased 4%, to 1,937,248, as of March 31, 2023. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses, decreased $4.4 million, or 22%. Placement fees decreased by $10.0 million, or 68%, driven by lower trading volume. We attribute lower trading volume to macroeconomic and geopolitical instability that triggered a higher spread between the price sellers are asking for their shares and the price at which buyers want to buy. We believe buyers have also paused due to high market volatility and uncertain market conditions. Custodial administration fees increased by $5.4 million, or 100%, driven by rate increases for these services and increased revenue from cash administration services. Rate increases more than offset the decline in assets under custody. The 13% decrease in total custodial accounts was due to delayed bulk account closures made by one of our partners. The financial impact was negligible and we expect account growth to continue. Transaction-based expenses decreased by $0.1 million, or 86%, driven by the cessation of forward fund trades which carry fund insurance costs. 42 Table of Contents Compensation and benefits Three Months Ended QoQ YoY (in thousands) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change Salary $ 13,529 $ 13,973 $ 10,811 $ (444) (3)% $ 2,718 25% Incentive compensation and other bonus 3,261 3,069 23,038 192 6 (19,777) (86) Share-based compensation 7,401 11,950 8,522 (4,549) (38) (1,121) (13) Benefits and other 1,571 1,458 1,273 113 8 298 23 Total compensation and benefits $ 25,762 $ 30,450 $ 43,644 $ (4,688) (15)% $ (17,882) (41)% Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Compensation and benefits expense decreased $4.7 million, or 15%. Share-based compensation expense decreased $4.5 million, $6.5 million of which was related to restricted stock units ("RSUs"), including Executive Retention RSUs, granted under our 2022 Stock Option and Incentive Plan net of forfeitures in the three months ended March 31, 2023, offset in part by $2.3 million of expense recovery recognized in connection with certain executive RSU and stock option modifications in the three months ended December 31, 2022. RSU expense, net of modifications impact, was $5.8 million and $5.4 million, of which $1.3 million and $5.7 million relates to Executive Retention RSUs, for the three months ended March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The decrease attributable to Executive Retention RSUs is the result of completion of the recognition period for the first and second tranches of the Executive Retention RSUs during the three months ended December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 12, "Share-Based Compensation," to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Compensation and benefits expense decreased $17.9 million, or 41%. Bonus expense decreased $19.8 million, primarily due to one-time transaction bonuses for certain executives of $17.7 million related to the consummation of the Business Combination in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and $2.7 million due to the lower attainment of Company performance targets in the three months ended March 31, 2023. These decreases were partially offset by increases in headcount from organic growth of our business operations which drove increases in salaries and benefits of $2.7 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Other operating expenses Three Months Ended QoQ YoY (in thousands) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change Professional services $ 2,736 $ 3,095 $ 3,518 $ (359) (12) % $ (782) (22) % Acquisition-related transaction costs (106) 3,706 106 (100) (3,706) (100) Advertising and market development 677 881 1,504 (204) (23) (827) (55) Rent and occupancy 1,326 1,652 1,566 (326) (20) (240) (15) Technology and communications 3,390 3,121 2,023 269 9 1,367 68 General and administrative 2,748 3,951 1,602 (1,203) (30) 1,146 72 Depreciation and amortization 1,789 1,495 1,082 294 20 707 65 Total other operating expenses $ 12,666 $ 14,089 $ 15,001 $ (1,423) (10) % $ (2,335) (16) % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Other operating expenses decreased $1.4 million, or 10%. 43 Table of Contents Other operating expenses in the three months ended December 31, 2022 include certain non-recurring charges including $0.7 million related to litigation settlements and $0.5 million for bank penalty fees incurred to move cash into higher interest earning accounts. Cost containment efforts resulted in decreases of $0.4 million in third-party software engineers, $0.3 million in rent expense from expiration of certain facility leases, and $0.2 million in advertising. These savings were partially offset by $0.5 million in impairment losses on internally developed software and $0.5 million from the impact of lower capitalizable software development costs of third-party software engineers. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Other operating expenses decreased $2.3 million, or 16%. Acquisition-related transaction costs of $3.7 million related to the Business Combination ceased by March 31, 2022, and advisory services primarily incurred to support Forge as a public company declined by $0.8 million. Cost containment efforts also resulted in a decline in advertising and occupancy of $0.8 million and $0.2 million, respectively. These costs savings were partially offset by higher technology and communications of $0.9 million from the impact of lower capitalizable software development costs of third-party software engineers, and $0.7 million for software licensing fees to support business growth. General and administrative expenses increased $1.1 million due to increased company liability insurance. Total interest income and other income (expenses) Three Months Ended QoQ YoY (in thousands) March 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 March 31, 2022 Change % Change Change % Change Interest income $ 1,509 $ 1,520 $ 21 $ (11) (1) % $ 1,488 7,086 % Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 168 27 (25,959) 141 522 % 26,127 (101) % Other income (expenses), net 215 215 388 % (173) (45) % Total interest income and other income (expenses) $ 1,892 $ 1,762 $ (25,550) $ 130 7 % $ 27,442 (107) % Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 Total interest income and other income (expenses) increased $0.1 million, or 7%, primarily from a decrease of $0.1 million in the fair value of Junior Preferred Stock Warrants during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and March 31, 2022 Total interest income and other income (expenses) increased $27.4 million, or 107%, primarily as a result of a change in the gain in the fair value of warrant liabilities of $26.1 million. The change was primarily driven by an increase in the fair value of Private Placement Warrants and Public Warrants in connection with the Business Combination during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Interest income increased $1.5 million driven by favorable interest rates earned on the Company's cash balances. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed our operations primarily through revenue from operations, issuances of securities, issuances of debt and proceeds from the Business Combination. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, capital expenditures and investments in business acquisitions. As of March 31, 2023, our principal source of liquidity was our cash and cash equivalents balance of $175.3 million. Since our inception, we have generated operating losses as reflected in our accumulated deficit. We had an accumulated deficit of $211.6 million as of March 31, 2023. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2023 will be sufficient to meet our operating working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least twelve months from the date of this Report. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development of our platform and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. Although we currently are not a party to any 44 Table of Contents agreement and do not have any understanding with any third parties with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. We intend to continue to make investments in product development, sales efforts, and additional general and administrative costs in connection with operating as a public company. We expect to continue to maintain financing flexibility in the current market conditions. As a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our revenue growth rate, the timing, and extent of spending to support further sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (17,715) $ (30,177) Investing activities $ (71) $ (1,692) Financing activities $ (496) $ 159,591 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2023 of $17.7 million was primarily driven by our net loss of $21.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $10.5 million and net cash outflows of $7.0 million in connection with changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $7.4 million and depreciation and amortization of $1.8 million. The main driver of the cash outflows from the changes in operating assets and liabilities was related to a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $6.7 million attributable to the payments during the quarter of incentive compensation related to prior year. Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 of $30.2 million was primarily related to our net loss of $64.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $45.8 million and net cash outflows of $11.6 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $8.5 million, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $26.0 million, settlement of related party promissory notes of $5.5 million and transaction expenses related to the Business Combination of $3.1 million. The main drivers of the cash outflows were derived from the changes in operating assets and liabilities were driven by a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $11.6 million. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023. Consistent with delivering customer-centric platform capabilities, our technology development cycles have become shorter and more fluid, with a heavier focus on the preliminary project stages including feasibility and proof-of-concept. Activities that occur during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. We don't expect to incur material development costs in the future during the development stage between approval of feasibility and ready-for-use, the period during which development costs would be capitalized. There were no amounts capitalized in connection with internal-use software during the three months ended March 31, 2023. Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which consisted primarily of cash paid for capitalized internal-use software. 45 Table of Contents Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023, as operating activities have normalized subsequent to the Business Combination. Cash provided by financing activities was $159.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which consisted primarily of proceeds from completion of the Business Combination of $7.9 million, proceeds of $208.0 million from PIPE investment and A&R FPA investors, partially offset by payments for offering costs of $56.4 million. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations have not changed materially outside of the normal course of business since December 31, 2022. For further information see Part II, Item 7, "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in Item 7 of Part II of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Refer to Note 9, "Off Balance Sheet Items," to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our audited annual consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, current business factors and various other assumptions that we believe are necessary to consider forming a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We are subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic and political factors, and changes in our business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of our audited annual consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. Changes in estimates are made when circumstances warrant. Such changes in estimates and refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected in reported results of operations; if material, the effects of changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the critical accounting policies, as discussed in more detail below. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The Companys long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. The Company also evaluates the period of depreciation and amortization of long-lived assets to determine whether events or circumstances warrant revised estimates of useful lives. When indicators of impairment are present, the Company determines the recoverability of its long-lived assets by comparing the carrying value of its long-lived assets to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to result from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If the estimated future undiscounted cash flows demonstrate the long-lived assets are not recoverable, an impairment loss would be calculated based on the excess of the carrying amounts of the long-lived assets over their fair value. The Company determined that recent developments in domestic and global economies, including significant market volatilities, interest rate increases, and the decline in the market value of the Company's stock, which commenced prior to March 31, 2023, represent indicators that the Company's long-lived assets may be impaired. Accordingly, the Company carried out an impairment test of its long-lived assets pursuant to ASC 360 - Property, Plant, and Equipment, whereby a 46 Table of Contents quantitative assessment was performed to determine whether its long-lived assets were recoverable. The Company's long-lived assets represent a single group of assets that individually are not independent from the cash flows of other assets. The Company determined that the carrying amount of its long-lived assets did not exceed the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of these assets, thus, its long-lived assets were recoverable as of March 31, 2023. As a result, no impairment loss was recorded for the long-lived assets. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, Net Goodwill represents the excess of the aggregate fair value of the consideration transferred in a business combination over the fair value of the assets acquired, net of liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment annually on October 1, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate the goodwill may be impaired. The Company's 2022 annual goodwill impairment test resulted in no goodwill impairment. Additionally as of March 31, 2023, the Company performed a goodwill impairment test as a result of the events and circumstances previously discussed. The Company has one reporting unit. In determining the fair value of the reporting unit in accordance with ASC 350 - Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, the Company performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill as of March 31, 2023 using the income approach in combination with sensitivity analysis and reconciliations to market capitalization. The fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value. As a result, no impairment loss was recorded for goodwill. In-process research and development (IPR&D) assets acquired in a business combination are considered indefinite lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Upon conclusion of the relevant research and development project, the Company will amortize the acquired IPR&D over its estimated useful life or expense the acquired IPR&D should the research and development project be unsuccessful with no future alternative use. In September 2021, the Company launched the acquired IPR&D data platform and started to record amortization expense using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the asset. Acquired intangible assets also consist of identifiable intangible assets, primarily software technology, trade name and customer relationships, resulting from business acquisitions. Finite-lived intangible assets are recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition and are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The Company bases the useful lives and related amortization expense on its estimate of the period that the assets will generate revenues or otherwise be used. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See the section titled "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in Note 2 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on March 1, 2023.