Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Risk Factor Summary An investment in our securities is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and the following is a summary of key risk factors when considering an investment. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained in the subheadings further below. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our customers may encounter difficulties with investing through our platform, and face risks including those related to a lack of information available about private companies, liquidity concerns and potential transfer or sale restrictions with respect to securities offered on our platform. 12 Ta ble of Contents There is no assurance that our revenue and business models will be successful. If we are unable to develop new solutions or adapt to technological changes, our revenue may not grow as expected. If we fail to attract new customers, or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business may be harmed. We face intense and increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our competitive positioning and our operating results will be harmed. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, particularly with respect to our financial services business, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and a larger customer base than we do. Geopolitical conflicts, trailing effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and other macroeconomic conditions and their resultant impacts on the global financial markets, may harm our business and our reputation. We rely on our management team and will require additional key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of key management members or key employees, or an inability to hire key personnel, could harm our business. Our business is subject to extensive laws and regulations promulgated by U.S. state, U.S. federal and non-U.S. laws, including those applicable to broker dealers, investment advisers and alternative trading systems, including regulation by the SEC and FINRA in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Compliance with laws and regulations require significant expense and devotion of resources, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We may be unable to sufficiently obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, any of which could reduce our competitiveness and harm our business and operating results. We collect, store, share, disclose, transfer, use and otherwise process customer information and other data, including personal information, and an actual or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to protect such information and data or respect customers privacy could damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect our ability to retain customers and harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and prospects. We depend on third parties for a wide array of services, systems and information technology applications, and a breach or violation of law by one of these third parties could disrupt our business or provide our competitors with an opportunity to enhance their position at our expense. Additionally, the loss of any of those service providers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Cyber incidents or attacks directed at us and to our systems could result in unauthorized access, information theft, data corruption, operational disruption and/or financial and reputational loss, and we may not be able to insure against such risk. We have previously completed and may continue to evaluate and complete acquisitions in the future, which could require significant management attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses and disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our net loss was $111.9 million and $18.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $190.4 million. We may continue to incur net losses in the future. We will need to generate and sustain significant revenue for our business generally in future periods in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We also expect general and administrative expenses to continue to increase to meet the increased compliance and other requirements associated with operating as a public company and evolving regulatory requirements. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to offset our higher operating expenses. We may continue to incur losses, and we may not achieve or maintain future profitability due to a number of reasons, including the risks described in this Report, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. Furthermore, if our future growth and operating performance fail to meet investor or analyst expectations, or if we have future negative cash flow or losses resulting from expanding our operations, this could make it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and our future prospects and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face intense and increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our competitive positioning and our operating results will be harmed. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, particularly with respect to our financial services business, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and a larger customer base than we do. We expect our competition to continue to increase. In addition to established enterprises and global banks, we may also face competition from early-stage companies attempting to capitalize on the same, or similar, opportunities as we are. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, 13 Ta ble of Contents marketing, and other resources and a larger customer base than we do. Any of these advantages would allow competitors to potentially offer more competitive pricing or other terms or features, a broader range of investment and financial products, or a more specialized set of specific products or services, as well as respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences, among other items. Our existing or future competitors may develop products or services that are similar to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could attract new customers away from our services and reduce our market share in the future. Additionally, when new competitors seek to enter our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, these competitors sometimes undercut, or otherwise exert pressure on, the pricing terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our revenues, market share or ability to capitalize on new market opportunities. Our customers may encounter difficulties with investing through our platform, and face risks including those related to a lack of information available about private companies, liquidity concerns and potential transfer or sale restrictions with respect to securities offered on our platform. Institutions and individual investors face significant risk when buying securities on our platform, which may make our product offerings generally less attractive. These risks include the following: private companies may exercise their right of first refusal over the securities or otherwise prohibit the transfer of the securities, and therefore certain securities on our platform may not be available to certain investors; private companies are not required to make periodic public filings, and therefore certain capitalization, operational and financial information may not be available for evaluation; an investment may only be appropriate for investors with a long-term investment horizon and a capacity to absorb a loss of some or all of their investment; the securities, when purchased, are generally highly illiquid, are often subject to further transfer restrictions, and no public market exists for such securities; post-IPO transfer restrictions, including lock-up restrictions, may ultimately limit the ability to sell the securities on the open market; and transactions may fail to settle, which could harm our reputation. We have been or are involved in, and may in the future become involved in, disputes or litigation matters between customers with respect to failed transactions on our platform (such as in the event of delayed delivery or a failure to deliver securities). We have been or are involved in, and may in the future become involved in, disputes and litigation matters between customers with respect to transactions on our platform. The high notional value of transactions on our platform makes us a target for clients to engage in lawsuits between one another and/or with us. There is a risk that clients may increasingly look to us to make them whole for delayed and/or broken trades. Customers may litigate over a failure of sellers to deliver securities or over the untimely deliveries of securities. Any litigation to which we are a party could be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and the potential costs and risks of such litigation may incentivize us to settle. Additionally, we may agree to forego commissions in a failed settlement situation even if we are not at fault or do not have an obligation to do so for customer relations or other reasons. If we reduce or forego commissions on behalf of clients, it would lead to a reduction in profits. There is no assurance that our revenue and business models will be successful. The majority of our revenue is derived from commissions earned on securities-based transactions, or placement fees. We maintain a platform which generates revenue through our Forge Markets offering by volume-based fees sourced from institutions, individual investors and shareholders. Furthermore, although we continue to invest and develop our platform to complete transactions in a more automated and tech enabled manner, portions of our platform rely upon manual procedures carried out by our private market specialists who help facilitate trades between buyers and sellers. We also generate revenues through our Forge Trust offering with account fees, cash management fees and custody-as-a-service fees through custodial offerings, or custodial administration fees for all Forge customers and also through our Forge Intelligence and FCS offerings. With respect to placement fees, a decline in the price of securities transactions brokered by us, or a decline in the financial markets generally, or a decline in fee rates could negatively impact our revenue and overall financial position. Additionally, if we fail to acquire and retain new institutions, individual investors and shareholders, or fail to do so in a cost- 14 Ta ble of Contents effective manner, we may be unable to increase revenue and achieve profitability for our Forge Markets and Forge Trust offerings. Additionally, our Forge Intelligence and FCS offerings may not gain market acceptance or prove to be profitable in the long term. While some of our issuer customers may prefer that we not publish the transaction prices for transactions in their securities, which could impact our Forge Intelligence and Forge Markets offerings, we maintain that such prices are, by definition, information belonging to us. We negotiate exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis, and such exceptions have historically been very limited. We are continually refining our revenue and business model, which is premised on creating a virtuous cycle for our clients to engage in more products across our platform. We promote our complementary offerings such as Forge Intelligence and FCS to the institutions, individual investors and shareholders who partake in our Forge Markets offering. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that we will generate revenues commensurate with our efforts and expectations, or become profitable. We may be forced to make significant changes to our revenue and business model to compete with our competitors offerings, and even if such changes are undertaken, there is no guarantee that they will be successful. Additionally, we will likely be required to hire, train and integrate qualified personnel to meet and further our business objectives, and our ability to successfully do so is uncertain. If we are unable to develop new solutions or adapt to technological changes, our revenue may not grow as expected. We operate in a dynamic industry characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions and competition based on pricing and other differentiators. Our scalability could be contingent on us successfully building a mobile app for our services, which may be expensive and time consuming, and the success of which is not guaranteed. In addition, we may increasingly rely on technological innovation as we introduce new types of products, expand our current products into new markets and continue to streamline our platform. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to successfully innovate and continue to deliver a superior experience, demand for our products may decrease and our growth and operations may be harmed. If we fail to attract new customers, or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, our business may be harmed. Our continued business and revenue growth is dependent on our ability to attract new customers, retain existing customers and increase their use of our products, and we cannot be sure that we will be successful in these efforts. As we expand our business operations and potentially enter new markets, new challenges in attracting and retaining customers will arise that we may not successfully address. Our success, and our ability to increase revenues and operate profitably, depends in part on our ability to cost-effectively acquire new customers, retain existing customers and keep existing customers engaged so that they continue to use our products and services. If we fail to effectively manage any future growth, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have and expect to continue to experience growth, and intend to continue to expand our operations. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management and operational and financial infrastructure, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to manage such growth. In addition, we are required to continuously develop and adapt our systems and infrastructure in response to the increasing sophistication of the financial services market, evolving fraud and information security landscape, and regulatory developments relating to existing and projected business activities. Our future growth will depend, among other things, on our ability to maintain an operating platform and management system apt to address such growth, and will require us to incur significant additional expenses, expand our workforce and commit additional senior management and operational resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management systems and controls by, among other things: effectively attracting, training, integrating and retaining new employees; further improving our key business systems, processes, and information technology infrastructure, including our and third-party services, to support our business needs; enhancing our information, training and communication systems to ensure that our employees are well-coordinated and can effectively communicate with each other and our customers; and 15 Ta ble of Contents improving our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure