MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provide information that our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our consolidated results of operations and financial condition. This discussion and analysis should be read together with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes to those statements in this Report, as well as our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to those statements included in our Current Report on Form 8-K which was filed with the SEC on March 25, 2022. This discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, as described under the heading Forward-Looking Statements. Actual results and timing of selected events may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under Risk Factors or elsewhere in this Report. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this section to Forge, the Company we, us, and our, refer to Forge Global Holdings, Inc. and its subsidiaries following the Business Combination (as defined below). Business Overview Forge is a financial services platform headquartered in San Francisco, California. We have built a trusted marketplace to serve the unique needs of the private market by making purchases and sales of equity in private companies simple, transparent, and highly efficient to scale. Today, we are a leading provider for end-to-end enabling technology, data, and services for the private market. We operate as one business, a fully integrated private markets service provider. Since inception, we have added complementary pillars to provide the access, transparency and solutions that companies, as well as institutional and individual investors and shareholders, need to confidently navigate and efficiently transact in the private market. The four pillars that make up our business are: Forge Markets Our online trading platform that connects potential investors with private company shareholders and enables them to efficiently facilitate private share transactions. Forge Trust Our non-depository trust company that enables clients to securely custody and manage non-liquid assets through a robust and user-friendly online portal. Forge Data Our data business provides market participants the information and insight to confidently navigate, analyze, and make investment decisions in the private market. Forge Company Solutions (FCS) Our software solution purpose built for private companies to easily administer primary and secondary financing events. Recent Developments Consummation of Business Combination On March 21, 2022 (the Closing Date) , we consummated our business combination pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated September 13, 2021 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Motive Capital Corp, a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company in 2020 ("MOTV"), FGI Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of MOTV (Merger Sub), and Forge Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Legacy Forge"). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, on the Closing Date, immediately prior to the consummation of the Business Combination (as defined below), MOTV changed its jurisdiction of incorporation from the Cayman 35 Islands to the State of Delaware and changed its corporate name to "Forge Global Holdings, Inc." (the Domestication). On the Closing Date, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Forge (the "Merger"), with Legacy Forge surviving the Merger as a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (together with the Merger, the Domestication, and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Business Combination). Prior to the Business Combination, MOTVs units, public shares, and Public Warrants were listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols MOTV-UN, MOTV, and MOTV-WT, respectively. Following the consummation of the Business Combination, on March 21, 2022, the Companys common stock and Public Warrants began trading on The New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ), under the symbols FRGE and FRGE WS, respectively. Legacy Forge is considered the Companys accounting predecessor. The Merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization with Legacy Forge as the accounting acquirer and MOTV as the acquired company for accounting purposes. Accordingly, all historical financial information presented in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements represents the accounts of Legacy Forge. Development of Forge Company Solutions (FCS) and Launch of Forge Intelligence FCS, launched in the first quarter of 2021, is a comprehensive software solution supported by private market experts. FCS supports companies running financing processes and seeks, through our automation and online technologies, to reduce the administrative burden that companies incur in doing so. FCS provides companies with oversight and control of company share transactions, including primary financings and company sponsored secondary programs, block trades, tender programs and Pre-Direct Listing trading. We offer flexible, customizable solutions to match a companys liquidity needs. Our first data product, Forge Intelligence, serves the needs of institutional investors that are looking for timely and accurate data to help them make more informed investment decisions in the private market. Annual subscriptions purchased by clients enable access to view and analyze historical bid/ask, share price, and volume information of the companies that have transacted on Forge Markets. Subscribers also have access to company waterfall charts, which can be used to easily analyze the share price impact of different exit scenarios, whether via M&A or IPO. Other data points include preferred equity conversion ratios and protective provisions such as liquidation preferences. Forge Intelligence is expected to provide a recurring, predictable revenue stream driven by the subscription access model. Subscribers commit to access on an annual basis, with cost scaling by feature offerings and number of seats, or individual users, required. Forge Intelligence represents a high-margin product at scale, given the low incremental cost of serving each additional subscriber. Additional data-oriented products are planned to follow from the Forge Data pillar in the future. In addition to the revenue Forge expects to generate through the data business, we believe that information provided to subscribers will also drive volume on Forge Markets, resulting in additional trading volume and revenue. We formally announced the launch of Forge Intelligence and accelerated our sales and marketing strategy in September 2021, having already converted some of our beta test users into fee-paying customers. In January 2022, we won our first customer for a new data feed product which provides institutional investors with access to Forges historical proprietary data. We continue to sign up new customers while investing in our sales, marketing and technology. COVID-19 Impacts On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization designated the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a global pandemic. In an effort to manage the spread of the virus, federal, state and local governments enacted various restrictions, including closing schools and businesses, limiting or restricting social or public gatherings, implementing travel restrictions, and mandating stay-at-home orders, which have since been lifted to varying 36 degrees across the country. The global economic situation was greatly affected by the spread of COVID-19 and the pandemic that followed, which continues to this day. In response to these developments, we took precautionary measures to ensure the safety of our employees, support our customers, and mitigate the impact on our financial position and operations. We implemented remote working capabilities for our entire organization with minimal disruption to our operations or key operating performance indicators. We also identified opportunistic expense reductions which increased operating efficiencies and provided additional profitability in the period. Although we have not experienced significant business disruptions thus far from the COVID-19 pandemic, we are unable to predict the full impact that COVID-19 and its variant strains will have on our future results of operations, liquidity and financial condition due to numerous uncertainties, including the duration of the pandemic, the actions that may be taken by government authorities across the United States, the impact to our customers, employees, suppliers, and other factors. These factors are beyond our knowledge and control and, as a result, at this time, we are unable to predict the ultimate impact, both in terms of severity and duration, that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our business, operating results, cash flows and financial condition. While as of the date of this Report, the extent to which COVID-19 may impact the future financial condition or results of operations is still uncertain, we are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require revisions to estimates, updates to judgments, or adjustments to the carrying value of assets or liabilities. These estimates may change as new events occur and additional information is obtained. Russia and Ukraine Conflict The military conflict in Russia and Ukraine that began in February 2022 continues as of the date of this Report. As the conflict continues to evolve, we are closely monitoring the impact on our business. The conflict, and the sanctions and counter-sanctions imposed in response to it, have created increased economic uncertainty and operational complexity globally. While we have no direct exposure to Russia and Ukraine, and do not at the moment believe the situation will have a material impact our operating results, we are monitoring any broader economic impact from the situation. Should the conflict continue or escalate, it could have a significant negative effect on the global economy or on our operations, including continued global inflationary pressures, supply chain and logistics disruptions, volatility in foreign exchange rates and interest rates, and heightened cybersecurity threats. Segment information We operate as one business, a fully integrated private markets service provider. Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance, allocating resources and evaluating our financial performance. Accordingly, we have concluded that we consist of a single operating segment and reportable segment for accounting and financial reporting purposes. Key factors affecting our performance The key factors affecting our performance described below are not the only ones applicable to us. We believe that the growth of our business and our future success are dependent upon a number of key factors, including the following: Growing our Customer Base Sustaining our growth requires continued adoption of our platform by new customers and increased usage by current customers. We plan to continue to introduce products and features to attract and retain current and 37 new customers, and we plan to seek to increase brand awareness and customer adoption of our platform through digital and broad-scale advertising. The circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our customer base in recent periods may not continue in the future. Expanding our Relationship with Existing Customers Our revenue has grown historically as we have introduced new products and features to our customers and as our customers have increased their usage of our platform. However, certain circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our business may not continue in the future. We aim to grow with our customers over time and to grow our relationship with our customers as they build and manage their wealth. In the future, our Forge Markets customers can become our Forge Trust customers as they increase their frequency and volume of trading on our platform, and cross over to opening custody accounts. These customers would also generate significant amounts of new data that is then monetized into our Forge Data offerings, which in turn, creates additional opportunity for us to convert existing trading and custodian customers into data subscribers. Vice versa, our customers that start initially as data subscription customers can find value in our custodial and trading offerings and become customers of all three offerings. Our ability to expand our relationship with our customers will be an important contributor to our long-term growth. Investing in our Platform We intend to continue to invest in our platform capabilities and regulatory and compliance functions to support new and existing customers and products that we believe will drive our growth. As our customer base and platform functionalities expand, areas of investment priority include product innovation, automation, technology and infrastructure improvements and customer support. We believe these investments will contribute to our long-term growth. Additionally, we strive to strengthen our relationships with our customers by responding to customer feedback not only through the introduction of new products, but also through improvements to our existing products and services. In recent years, there has been an upward trend in the valuation of venture backed companies, as well as an increase in the number and market capitalization of unicorn companies (private companies with a valuation over $1 billion). These trends drive an increase in the demand for services like Forges that allow for buying and selling of private shares. We expect to increase the headcount number for our product, design, engineering, compliance, marketing, customer support and other teams to develop these capabilities and drive growth and deliver efficient support of a larger customer base for our business. Private Market Trends Our results of operations are impacted by the overall health of the economy, and consumer and institutional investing patterns, which include the following key drivers: Market Trends . As private market investing continues and the number of venture-backed companies and unicorns increases, and companies stay private longer, our supply and demand will fluctuate accordingly. According to CB Insights, there are more than 1,000 unicorns as of May 2022, worth a combined $3.7 trillion. According to Pitchbook, in the three months ended March 31, 2022, U.S. venture capital firms collected more than $70 billion in commitments, which is expected to be deployed in the next few years. Technology companies waited a median of 12 years to go public as of 2020, compared to four years in 1999, at a median valuation of $4.3 billion compared to $493.0 million, according to a study published in March 2021 by Jay Ritter. Consequently, there are more shareholders (employees and early investors) looking for liquidity, and more investors interested in obtaining equity in these companies prior to going public. In addition, as the public financial markets grow and contract, our customers investing, saving, and spending behaviors are affected. Although our operating history has coincided with a period of general macroeconomic growth in the United States, particularly in the U.S. equity markets, which has previously stimulated growth in overall investment activity on our platform, 38 we may be impacted by any slowdowns in growth or downturns and volatility in the U.S. equity markets. Consumer Behavior . Consumer behavior, whether from buyers or sellers, varies over time and is affected by numerous conditions. For example, behavior may be impacted by social or economic factors such as changes in disposable income levels and the need for liquidity, employee tenure at a venture-backed firm, general interest in investing, interest rate levels, and reaction to stock market volatility. There may also be high profile initial public offerings, or idiosyncratic events impacting single companies, that impact consumer behavior. These shifts in consumer behavior may influence interest in our products over time. Macroeconomic Events . Customer and business behavior is impacted by the overall macroeconomic environment, which is influenced by events such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (including the COVID-19 vaccine development and responsive measures taken by the U.S. government), global supply chain disruptions, rising inflation, and the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine, as well as its effects on both global business and individuals behavior. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, we have seen substantial growth in our customer base, retention, engagement and trading activity metrics. It is uncertain whether these trends and behavioral shifts will continue as reopening measures continue, and we may not be able to maintain the customer base we gained, or the rate of growth in our customer base that we experienced, throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant global supply chain disruptions, both domestically and globally, contributing to the rapidly rising inflation and increased market volatility. The Federal Reserve's recent increase of the interest rates as one of the key measures for containing the rising inflation had a further economic effect resulting in slower has further slowed economic growth and increased public and private market uncertainties. The recent Russian invasion of Ukraine has also contributed to a rise in energy and commodity prices and further contributed to the deterioration of global and regional economies. While these circumstances continue to evolve, and the outcomes remain highly uncertain, there is a risk that such events might have an unfavorable impact on behavior of our customers, including changes in their investment preferences. Key Personnel Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified and skilled professional personnel that can learn and embrace new technologies. Competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers or technology personnel, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions, office/remote working arrangements and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees whom we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. In particular, we may have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner. Custodial administration fees We generate revenues primarily through fees for performing custodial account administrative and maintenance services for our customers, including quarterly or monthly account fees, asset fees, and transaction fees. We assess a flat fee per account, with additional fees based on the number and types of assets held and services purchased by account holders. We also receive cash administration fees for facilitating customers transactions with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation banks, with fees contingent on prevailing interest rates and cash balances in custodial accounts. Our revenues depend on the number of Total Custodial Accounts, which include accounts clients open directly with us and the activity within these accounts as well as accounts 39 we custody on behalf of partners. Our business depends on maintaining and growing the number of Total Custodial Accounts. Types of Structures We have facilitated direct trades, trades in both our own special purpose vehicles ("SPVs") and other firms funds, and certain forward agreements. We may adjust placement fees to account for the operational costs of these transaction types, and we incur certain transaction-based costs depending on the structure. The mix of trades of different structures will impact our overall take rate and revenues. Types of Buyers/Sellers The type of client may influence our placement fee revenue. Examples of a type of client are institutional and individual clients, who may receive various placement fee rates depending on different factors. Having clients that come to our platform through external brokers or Forge Company Solutions programs may also impact our placement fee revenue. The mix of clients in any given period will impact our overall take rate and revenues. Use of External Brokers and Referral Partners When working with an external broker or partner, we share a portion of the placement fees, which are recognized in our consolidated financials under transaction-based expenses. The mix of fees paid to external brokers and partners fluctuates each time period, which we expect to continue based on our growth in the private market and the size of our order book, our growing partnerships, and the growth of the market overall. Key Business Metrics We monitor the following key business metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans and make strategic decisions. The tables below reflect period-over-period changes in our key business metrics, along with the percentage change between such periods. Our trading business, comprised of Forge Markets offering, is presented for the interim periods presented, while our custody business, comprised of Forge Custody offering, presents data as of the dates presented. We believe the following business metrics are useful in evaluating our business: Three Months Ended March 31, Dollars in thousands 2022 2021 Change % Change TRADING BUSINESS Trades 596 1,514 (918) (61) % Volume $ 417,961 $ 757,851 $ (339,890) (45) % Net Take Rate 3.5 % 3.5 % % Placement fee revenues, less transaction-based expenses $ 14,453 $ 26,533 $ (12,080) (46) % 40 As of March 31, Dollars in thousands 2022 2021 Change % Change CUSTODY BUSINESS Total Custodial Accounts 2,228,101 1,787,208 440,893 25% Assets Under Custody $ 14,933,379 $ 13,827,501 $ 1,105,878 8% Trades are defined as the total number of orders executed by the Company and acquired entities buying and selling private stocks on behalf of private investors and shareholders. Increasing the number of orders is critical to increasing our revenue and, in turn, to achieving profitability. Volume is defined as the total sales value for all securities traded on our Forge Markets platform. Volume is defined as the aggregate value of the issuer companys equity attributed to both the buyer and seller in a trade; the Company typically captures a commission on both sides, and as such a $100 trade of equity between buyer and seller would be captured as $200 volume for the Company. Volume is influenced by, among other things, the pricing and quality of our services as well as market conditions that affect private company valuations, such as increases in valuations of comparable companies at initial public offering. Net Take Rates are defined as our placement fee revenues, less transaction-based expenses (defined below), divided by Volume. These represent the percentage of fees earned by our marketplace on any transactions executed, which is a determining factor in our revenue. The Net Take Rate can vary based upon the service or product offering and is also affected by the average order size and transaction frequency. Total Custodial Accounts, previously called Billable Core and Platform Accounts, are defined as our customers custodial accounts that are established on our platform and billable. These relate to our Custodial Administration fees revenue stream and are an important measure of our business as the number of Total Custodial Accounts is an indicator of our future revenues from certain account maintenance, transaction, and sub-account fees. Assets Under Custody is the reported value of all client holdings held under our agreements, including cash submitted to us by the responsible party. These assets can be held at various financial institutions, issuers, and in our vault. As the custodian of the accounts, we collect all interest and dividends, handle all fees and transactions and any other considerations for the assets concerned. Our fees are earned from the overall maintenance activities of all assets and are not charged on the basis of the the dollar value of Assets Under Custody, but we believe that Assets Under Custody is a useful metric for assessing the relative size and scope of our business. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"), we present Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure. We use Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that Adjusted EBITDA, when taken together with the corresponding GAAP financial measure, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our performance by excluding specific financial items that have less bearing on our core operating performance. We consider Adjusted EBITDA to be an important measure because it helps illustrate underlying trends in our business and our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis. However, non-GAAP financial information is presented for supplemental informational purposes only, has limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial 41 information presented in accordance with GAAP. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a tool for comparison. A reconciliation is provided below for Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP. Investors are encouraged to review Adjusted EBITDA and the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. We defined Adjusted EBITDA as net loss, adjusted to exclude: (i) interest expense, net, (ii) provision for or benefit from income taxes, (iii) depreciation and amortization, (iv) share-based compensation expense, (v) change in fair value of warrant liabilities, (vii) acquisition-related transaction costs, and (vi) other significant gains, losses, and expenses (such as impairments, transaction bonus) that we believe are not indicative of our ongoing results. The following table reconciles net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the Company for the periods presented below (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net loss $ (64,424) $ 938 Add: Interest (income) expense, net (21) 554 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 123 (8) Depreciation and amortization 1,082 1,396 Impairment of right-of-use assets 265 Share-based compensation expense 8,522 1,259 Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 25,959 908 Acquisition-related transaction costs (1) 3,706 Transaction bonus (2) 17,735 Adjusted EBITDA $ (7,053) $ 5,047 (1) Acquisition-related transaction costs include transaction costs related to the Business Combination, which consisted of legal, accounting, and other professional services directly related to the Merger, direct and incremental costs in connection with business acquisitions, which consist primarily of professional services fees for investment banking advisors, legal services, accounting advisory, and other external costs directly related to acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. (2) Represents a one-time transaction bonus to certain executives as a result of consummation of the Merger, included in the compensation and benefits in the condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income Some of the limitations of Adjusted EBITDA include: (i) Adjusted EBITDA does not properly reflect capital commitments to be paid in the future, and (ii) although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the underlying assets may need to be replaced and Adjusted EBITDA does not reflect these capital expenditures. In evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, be aware that in the future we will incur expenses similar to the adjustments in this presentation. Our presentation of Adjusted EBITDA should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by these expenses or any unusual or non-recurring items. We compensate for these limitations by providing specific information regarding the GAAP items excluded from Adjusted EBITDA. When evaluating our performance, consider Adjusted EBITDA in addition to, and not a substitute for, other financial performance measures, including our net loss and other GAAP results. 42 Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of the Company included elsewhere in this Report include our accounts and accounts of our consolidated subsidiaries and were prepared in accordance with GAAP. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from providing private market services, which include fees charged for private placements on our marketplace platform, and fees charged for account and asset management to customers. We categorize our services into the following three categories: Placement fees We maintain a trading platform which generates revenues through our Forge Markets offering with volume-based fees sourced from institutions, individual investors and private equity holders. Placement fees represent fees charged by us for executing a private placement on our platform. We earn agency placement fees in non-underwritten transactions, such as private placements of equity securities. We enter into arrangements with individual accredited customers or pooled investment vehicles to execute private placements in the secondary market. We anticipate placement fees to grow in the long run as the secondary market continues to grow and the Company continues to execute trades more efficiently. Custodial administration fee s We generate revenues primarily through fees for performing custodial account administrative and maintenance services for our customers, including quarterly or monthly account fees, asset fees, and transaction fees. We assess a flat fee per account, with additional fees based on the number and types of assets held and services purchased by account holders. We also receive cash administration fees for facilitating customers transactions with Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation banks, with fees contingent on prevailing interest rates and cash balances in custodial accounts. Our revenues depend on the number of Total Custodial Accounts, which include accounts clients open directly with us and the activity within these accounts as well as accounts we custody on behalf of partners. Revenues from custodial administration fees are recognized either over time as underlying performance obligations are met and day-to-day maintenance activities are performed for custodial accounts, or at a point in time upon completion of transactions requested by custodial account holders. Subscription Fees We generate revenues through our Forge Data offerings with subscription fees earned from our first data product, Forge Intelligence, which we formally launched in September 2021, and through our Forge Company Solutions fees . We anticipate subscription fees to grow as we expand our sales and marketing efforts and develop more features and products. Subscription fees were not material for the periods presented and were included as part of placement fees in condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income. Transaction-based expenses Transaction-based expenses represent fees incurred to support placement activities. These include expenses for fund insurance, fund management, fund and trade settlement, external broker fees, and transfer f ees. We generally expect these expenses to increase in absolute dollars as our placement fee revenue grows. Compensation and benefits Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant operating expense and includes employee wages, bonuses, share-based compensation, severance costs, benefits, and employer taxes. The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on both our financial performance and individual employee performance as well as transaction bonus related to the consummation of the Business Combination for certain employees. We expect our compensation and benefits expense to increase as our revenue grows and 43 we hire additional personnel to continue developing new products and services and increase the functionality of our platform. In addition, the share-based compensation component of the compensation and benefits expense may or may not increase as we continue to align our headcount with current and future business needs. Professional services Professional services expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives, temporary labor, as well as regulatory, legal and accounting fees. We expect to incur additional professional services expenses as we work to implement procedures and processes to address public company regulatory requirements and customary practices. Acquisition-related transaction costs Acquisition-related transaction costs consist primarily of professional services fees for investment banking advisors, legal services, accounting advisory, and other external costs directly related to acquisitions and other strategic opportunities. We expect to continue to explore and pursue various potential acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and support our growth. Acquisition-related transaction costs may be significant in relation to certain acquisitions, however, they are non-recurring in nature, as we identify and pursue targets for particular purposes as necessary. Acquisition-related transaction costs also include the costs related to the Business Combination, which consisted of legal, accounting, and other professional services directly related to the Business Combination. As a result, we may or may not incur acquisition-related transaction costs in future periods. Advertising and market development The largest component of our advertising and market development expense consists of our discretionary customer acquisition expenses as well as investments in building the Forge brand and in growth marketing in support of driving more awareness, engagement, and lifetime revenue from our target audiences. These include advertising, marketing data analysis, content development, trade shows, public relations, web development, and seminars and conferences. Marketing is an important driver of growth and we intend to continue to make significant investments in customer acquisition. We expect our advertising and market development expense to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to focus on customer acquisition efforts. Rent and occupancy Rent and occupancy expense is related to our leased property and includes rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities, and other related c osts. We generally expect our rent and occupancy expense to increase in absolute dollars as a result of our expansion efforts. Technology and communications Technology and communications consist of costs for our hosting fees paid to third-party data centers, software development engineers, and maintenance of our computer hardware and software required to support our technology and cybersecurity. Technology and communications also include costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and telecommunicatio ns. We generally expect our technology and communications expense to increase as we continue to increase our headcount and innovate on our offerings and services. General and administrative General and administrative includes insurance, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, other general and administrative costs . We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in the near term as a result of operating as a public company, including regulatory fees associated with compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC and other regulatory bodies, as well as increases in general office expenses as we grow our business. 44 Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization is attributable to property and equipment, intangible assets and capitalized internal-use software. We expect our depreciation and amortization expense to increase for the foreseeable future as we plan additional capital expenditures to support the growth of our business. Interest income (expense), net Interest income (expense), net, primarily includes expenses related to our borrowing arrangements with financial institutions and issuance of convertible notes to investors for purposes of obtaining funding for operations. These expenses were offset by interest income from our cash and cash equivalents. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities Changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities, including Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants, are related to warrant liabilities that are marked-to-market each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive (loss) income until the warrants are exercised, expire or other facts and circumstances lead the warrant liabilities to be reclassified to stockholders equity or deficit. Other income, net Other income, net, includes loss on an equity method investment, and other non-operating income and expenditures. Results of Operations Comparisons for Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021 The following table sets forth our consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, and the dollar and percentage change between the two periods (dollars in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change Revenues Placement fees $ 14,585 $ 27,509 $ (12,924) (47)% Custodial administration fees 5,437 4,546 891 20% Total revenues $ 20,022 $ 32,055 Transaction-based expenses: Transaction-based expenses (132) (976) 844 (86)% Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses $ 19,890 $ 31,079 Operating expenses: Compensation and benefits $ 43,640 $ 20,496 23,144 113% Professional services 3,518 2,700 818 30% Acquisition-related transaction costs 3,706 3,706 100% Advertising and market development 1,504 987 517 52% Rent and occupancy 1,566 887 679 77% Technology and communications 2,023 1,434 589 41% General and administrative 1,602 953 649 68% Depreciation and amortization 1,082 1,396 (314) (22)% Total operating expenses $ 58,641 $ 28,853 45 Operating (loss) income $ (38,751) $ 2,226 Interest expenses and other income (expenses): Interest income (expense), net 21 (554) 575 (104)% Change in fair value of warrant liabilities (25,959) (908) (25,051) 2759% Other income, net 388 166 222 134% Total interest expenses and other expenses $ (25,550) $ (1,296) (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (64,301) 930 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 123 (8) 131 (1638)% Net (loss) income and comprehensive (loss) income $ (64,424) $ 938 Revenue Revenue was $20.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $32.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing a decrease of $12.0 million, or 38%. We attribute lower trading volumes to the higher volatility in the market caused by the current macroeconomic conditions. Placement fees decreased by $12.9 million , or 47%, driven by lower trading volumes. Custodial administration fees increased by $0.9 million, or 20%, driven by both an increase in overall custodial accounts, as well as an adjustment to our prices for these services in the second quarter of the year ended December 2021. The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (as a percentage of revenue) Revenues: Placement fees 73 % 86 % Custodial administration fees 27 % 14 % Total revenues 100 % 100 % Transaction-based expenses: Transaction-based expenses (1) % (3) % Total revenues, less transaction-based expenses 99 % 97 % Operating expenses: Compensation and benefits 218 % 64 % Professional services 18 % 8 % Acquisition-related transaction costs 19 % % Advertising and market development 7 % 3 % Rent and occupancy 8 % 3 % Technology and communications 10 % 5 % General and administrative 8 % 3 % Depreciation and amortization 5 % 4 % Total operating expenses 293 % 90 % 46 Operating (loss) income (194)% 7% Interest expenses and other income (expenses): Interest income (expense), net 1 % (2) % Change in fair value of warrant liabilities (130) % (3) % Other income, net 2 % 1 % Total interest expenses and other expenses (127) % (4) % (Loss) income before provision for income taxes (321) % 3 % Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 % % Net (loss) income and comprehensive (loss) income (322) % 3 % Transaction-based expenses Transaction-based expenses were $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing a decrease of $0.9 million or 86% , driven by the decrease in the volume of transactions that gave rise to transaction-based expenses. Compensation and benefits Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 $ Change % Change Salary $ 10,811 $ 6,991 $ 3,820 55% Bonus 23,038 11,344 11,694 103% Benefits 1,262 891 371 42% Share-based compensation 8,522 1,259 7,263 577% Other 7 11 (4) (36)% Total compensation and benefits $ 43,640 $ 20,496 $ 23,144 113% Compensation and benefits expense was $43.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $20.5 million for three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $23.1 million, or 113% . The increase was primarily attributable to the increase of share-based compensation expense by $7.3 million related mainly to the cumulative catch-up compensation expense for some of the performance and market condition-based options in the amount of $5.8 million. Refer to Note 12, "Share-Based Compensation" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report for more information . The increase in total bonus was driven by the one-time transaction bonus for certain executives of $17.7 million related to the consummation of the Business Combination, of which $12.2 million was to be paid to the executives in cash, with the remaining $5.5 million offset against outstanding promissory notes that were due from these executives as of the Closing Date, partially offset by a decrease in bonuses of $6.0 million or 53% primarily due to decrease in the company performance. Professional services Professional services expense was $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $2.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.8 million, or 30%. The increase in professional services expense is aligned with our plan of becoming a public company. The increase in professional services was primarily due to additional accounting and finance expenses related to increased compliance requirements as a result of becoming a public company. 47 Acquisition-related transaction costs Acquisition-related transaction costs were $3.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0 for the three months ended March 31, 202 1. The increase in acquisition-related transaction costs was primarily related to transaction costs related to the Business Combination . Advertising and market development Advertising and market development expense was $1.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.5 million, or 52% . The increase was driven by an increased investment in new customer acquisition. Rent and occupancy Rent and occupancy expense was $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.7 million , or 77%. The increase in rent and occupancy expenses is primarily due to one additional operating lease having commenced in December 2021. Technology and communications Technology and communications expense was $2.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.6 million, or 41% . The increase in expense pertains primarily to an increase of $0.3 million in software expenses for our growing business, and an increase of $0.3 million for third party software development engineers for the continued development and maintenance of our platform. General and administrative General and administrative expense was $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.6 million, or 68%. The increase in general and administrative expense was primarily driven by $0.2 million related to an increase in a company liability insurance. We further incurred an increase of $0.4 million related to bad debt expenses and other miscellaneous expenses. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense was $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing a decrease of $0.3 million, or 22%. The decrease was primarily driven by certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized by October 2021. Interest expense, net Interest income, net, was less than $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to interest expense, net $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing a change of $0.6 million. The change was primarily driven by settlement of convertible notes and senior debt during the three months ended June 30, 2021. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities Loss from the change in fair value of warrant liabilities was $26.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $25.1 million. The change was primarily driven by the increase in the fair value of Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants during the three months ended March 31, 2022. 48 Other income, net Other income, net was $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to $0.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.2 million, or 134%, driven by net gain on an equity investment. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed our operations primarily through revenue from operations, issuances of securities,issuances of debt and proceeds from Business Combination. Our primary requirements for liquidity and capital are to finance working capital, capital expenditures and investments in business acquisitions. As of March 31, 2022, our principal source of liquidity was our cash and cash equivalents balance of $202.5 million. Since our inception, we have generated operating losses as reflected in our accumulated deficit. We had an accumulated deficit of $143.0 million as of March 31, 2022. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2022 will be sufficient to meet our operating working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the foreseeable futur e. Our future financing requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development of our platform and the expansion of sales and marketing activities. Although we currently are not a party to any agreement and do not have any understanding with any third parties with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, businesses or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity or debt financing. Additional funds may not be available on terms favorable to us or at all. We intend to continue to make investments in product development, sales effort, and additional general and administrative costs in connection with operating as a public company. We expect to continue to maintain financing flexibility in the current market conditions. As a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our revenue growth rate, the timing, and extent of spending to support further sales and marketing and research and development efforts. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Cash Flow Summary The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ (30,177) $ (1,243) Investing activities $ (1,692) $ (117) Financing activities $ 159,591 $ (2,431) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 of $30.2 million was primarily driven by our net loss of $64.4 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $45.8 million and net cash outflow of $11.6 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $8.5 million, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $26.0 49 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.1 million, amortization of right-of-use assets of $1.1 million, transaction expenses related to the Business Combination of $3.1 million, settlement of related party promissory notes of $5.5 million, impairment of right-of-use assets of $0.3 million, and increase in bad debt allowance of $0.3 million. The main drivers of the cash outflows from the changes in operating assets and liabilities were related to the decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $11.6 million , increase in prepaid expenses and other assets in amount of $0.9 million , decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $0.7 million , and increase in operating lease liability of $1.2 million , partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable of $2.0 million and increase in accounts payable of $0.9 million . Cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 of $1.2 million was primarily related to our net income of $0.9 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $4.4 million and net cash outflows of $6.6 million related to changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of share-based compensation of $1.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $1.4 million, amortization of right-of-use assets of $0.7 million, provisions for accounts receivable allowances of $0.1 million, changes in fair value of warrant liabilities of $0.9 million, and other non-cash charges of $0.1 million. The main drivers of the cash outflows were derived from the changes in operating assets and liabilities were related to an increase to accounts receivable of $0.3 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $0.5 million, a decrease in accounts payable of $0.9 million, a decrease in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $3.6 million, decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $0.3 million, and decrease in operating lease liabilities of $0.9 million. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, which consisted primary of capitalized internal-use software of $1.7 million. Cash used in investing acti vities was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which consisted of cash paid for capitalized internal-use software of $0.1 million. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities wa s $159.6 million for three months ended March 31, 2022, which consisted primarily of proceeds from the Business Combination of $7.9 million , proceeds from the PIPE and A&R FPA investors of $208.0 million, and proceeds from exercise of options of $0.1 million , offset by payments for offering costs of $56.4 million . Cash used by financing activities w as $2.4 million for th e three months ended March 31, 2021, which consisted primarily of repayment of notes payable in amount of $2.9 million partially offset by proceeds from exercise of options, including proceeds from repayment of promissory notes of $0.4 million . Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022, and the years in which these obligations are due (in thousands): Total Remainder of 2022 2022-2024 2025-2026 Thereafter Operating lease obligations (1) $ 9,795 $ 4,436 $ 4,966 $ 393 $ Non-cancelable purchase obligations (2) 8,606 1,213 2,677 3,653 1,063 Total contractual obligations $ 18,401 $ 5,649 $ 7,643 $ 4,046 $ 1,063 50 In addition effective March 21, 2022, the Company entered into a D&O insurance policy with an annual premium totaling $5,782, which was fully paid in April 2022. __________ (1) Our lease portfolio primarily includes leased office space, all of which are accounted for as operating leases. Total payments listed represent total minimum future lease payments. (2) In the normal course of business, we entered into non-cancelable purchase commitments with various parties mainly for liability insurance and software products and services. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Refer to Note 9, " Off Balance Sheet Items", to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our audited annual consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience, current business factors and various other assumptions that we believe are necessary to consider forming a basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities, the recorded amounts of revenue and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We are subject to uncertainties such as the impact of future events, economic and political factors, and changes in our business environment; therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates. Accordingly, the accounting estimates used in the preparation of our audited annual consolidated financial statements will change as new events occur, as more experience is acquired, as additional information is obtained and as our operating environment changes. Changes in estimates are made when circumstances warrant. Such changes in estimates and refinements in estimation methodologies are reflected in reported results of operations; if material, the effects of changes in estimates are disclosed in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The most significant judgments, estimates and assumptions relate to the critical accounting policies, as discussed in more detail below. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 25, 2022, which was filed with the SEC. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from fees charged for the trading of private placements on our marketplace platform, and fees for account and asset management provided to customers. We disaggregate revenue by service type, as we believe that this level of disaggregation best depicts how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are impacted by economic factors. We recognize revenue pursuant to ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for services. To achieve the core principle of this standard, we applied the following five steps: 1. Identification of the contract, or contracts, with the customer; 2. Identification of the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determination of the transaction price; 51 4. Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and 5. Recognition of the revenue when, or as, a performance obligation is satisfied. Revenue from Contracts with Customers We enter into contracts with customers that can include various services, which are generally capable of being distinct and accounted for as separate performance obligations. When applicable, allocation of the transaction fees to the performance obligations or to the distinct goods or services that form part of a single performance obligation will depend on the individual facts and circumstances of the contract. All of our revenues are from contracts with customers. We are the principal in these contracts, with the exception of sub-account fees, in which case we act as the agent and record revenue from fees earned related to cash balances in customers custodial accounts. Refer to the section titled Revenue Recognition and Transaction-Based Expenses in Note 2 to o ur unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Report. Share-Based Compensation We recognize stock-based compensation expense in accordance with the provisions of ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation (ASC 718). ASC 718 requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all stock-based awards made to employees, directors and non-employees based on the grant date fair value of the awards. Prior to the Business Combination, the fair value of employee and non-employee stock options was determined on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model using various inputs, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, the expected term of the stock-based award, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, and the expected dividend yield of common stock. The assumptions used to determine the fair value of the stock-based awards represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. We recognize stock-based compensation cost on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the awards, which generally is the option vesting term. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur. Changes in the following assumptions can materially affect the estimate of fair value and ultimately how much stock-based compensation expense is recognized. These inputs are subjective and generally require significant analysis and judgment to develop. Fair Value of Common Stock . Prior to the Business Combination, given the absence of a public trading market, our board of directors, with the input of management, considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of common stock at each meeting in which awards are approved. Following the Business Combination, fair value of common stock is determined by reference to the closing price of our common stock on NYSE. Expected Term . Expected term represents the period that options are expected to be outstanding. We determine the expected term using the simplified method based on the options vesting term and contractual obligations. Expected Volatility . The volatility is derived from the average historical stock volatilities of a peer group of public companies that we consider to be comparable to our business over a period equivalent to the expected term of the share-based grants. Risk-Free Interest Rate . We derive the risk-free interest rate assumption from the U.S. Treasurys rates for the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon bonds with maturities similar to those of the expected term of the awards being valued. 52 Dividend Yield . We base the assumed dividend yield on its expectation of not paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, the expected dividend yield used is zero. During the three months ended March 31, 2022, there were no new option grants. The Black-Scholes assumptions used in evaluating our awards during the three months ended March 31, 2021 were as follows: Fair value of common stock $ 0.90 Expected term (years) 5.8 6.1 Expected volatility 40.9% 41.1% Risk-free interest 1.0% 1.1% Expected dividend yield 0.0% The variables used in these models are reviewed on each grant date and adjusted, as needed. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock valuations and assumptions used in the Black-Scholes model, we may refine our estimates of these variables, which could materially affect our future stock-based compensation expense. These estimates involved in calculating the fair value of our stock options involve inherent uncertainties and the application of significant judgment. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimation process, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. As a measure of sensitivity, for every 10% increase in the estimated fair value of our stock options over managements estimates at the grant dates of stock options, share-based compensation expense recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2022 would have increased by $0.8 million and share-based compensation expense recognized for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021 would have increased by $0.1 million. In addition, we have issued performance-based stock options that vest based upon continued service through the vesting term and achievement of certain market conditions established by the board of directors for a predetermined period. We measure stock-based compensation expense for performance-based stock options containing market conditions based on the estimated grant date fair value determined using the Monte Carlo valuation model. We recognize compensation expense for such awards over the requisite service period using the accelerated attribution method when it becomes pro bable that the performance condition will be satisfied. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 we recognized $4.6 million of stock based compensation expense related to performance-based stock options. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company (EGC), as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act). The JOBS Act permits companies with EGC status to take advantage of an extended transition period to comply with new or revised accounting standards, delaying the adoption of these accounting standards until they would apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period to enable us to comply with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an EGC or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with the new or revised accounting standards as of public company effective dates. In addition, we intend to rely on the other exemptions and reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an EGC, we intend to rely on such exemptions, we are not required to, among other things: (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (ii) provide 53 all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officers compensation to median employee compensation. We will remain an EGC under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (i) the last day of our first fiscal year following the fifth anniversary of the closing of the Business Combination, (ii) the last date of our fiscal year in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC with at least $700.0 million of outstanding securities held by non-affiliates, or (iv) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See the section titled Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in Note 2 of the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Report for more information.