Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Risk Factor Summary An investment in our securities is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, and the following is a summary of key risk factors when considering an investment. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of these and other risk factors contained in the subheadings further below. We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. There is no assurance that our revenue and business models will be successful. If we are unable to develop new solutions or adapt to technological changes, our revenue may not grow as expected. If we fail to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. We face intense and increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our competitive positioning and operating results will be harmed. Given our focus on the private market, our customers may encounter additional risks when investing through our platform, including potential transfer or sale restrictions on securities, lack of information about private companies, opacity in pricing, and liquidity concerns. Unfavorable macroeconomic or financial market conditions, as well as adverse global economic or geopolitical conditions could limit our ability to grow our business and adversely affect the results of our operations. Our business is subject to extensive, complex, and evolving laws and regulations promulgated by U.S. state, U.S. federal, and non-U.S. laws, including those applicable to broker-dealers, investment advisers, and alternative trading systems, such as regulation by the SEC and FINRA, and in the jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws are subject to change and are interpreted and enforced by various federal, state, and local government authorities, as well as self-regulatory organizations. Compliance with laws and regulations require significant expense and devotion of resources, which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We rely on our executive team and key personnel to grow our business, and the loss of or inability to hire either could harm our business. Cyber incidents or attacks directed at us and to our systems could result in unauthorized access, information theft, data corruption, operational disruption, and/or financial and reputational loss. We collect, store, share, disclose, transfer, use, and otherwise process customer information and other data, including personal information, and an actual or perceived failure by us or our third-party service providers to protect such information and data or respect customers privacy could damage our reputation and brand, negatively affect our ability to retain customers and harm our business, financial condition, operating results, cash flows, and prospects. We depend on third parties for a wide array of services, systems, and information technology applications, and a breach or violation of law by one of these third parties could disrupt our business. Additionally, the loss of any of those service providers could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We have previously completed and may continue to evaluate and complete acquisitions in the future, which could require significant management attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our business, and adversely affect our financial results. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our net loss was $90.2 million and $111.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $280.6 million. We may continue to incur net losses in the future. We will need to generate and sustain significant revenue for our business generally in future periods in order to achieve and maintain profitability. We also expect general and administrative expenses to continue to increase to meet the 13 Table of Contents increased compliance and other requirements associated with operating as a public company and evolving regulatory requirements. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to offset our higher operating expenses. We may continue to incur losses, and we may not achieve or maintain future profitability due to a number of reasons, including the risks described in this Report, unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays, and other unknown events. Furthermore, if our future growth and operating performance fail to meet investor or analyst expectations, or if we have future negative cash flow or losses resulting from expanding our operations, this could make it difficult for you to evaluate our current business and our future prospects and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There is no assurance that our revenue and business models will be successful. The majority of our revenue historically is derived from commissions earned on securities-based transactions. We maintain a platform which generates revenue through our Forge Markets offering by volume-based fees sourced from institutions, individual investors, and stockholders. Furthermore, although we continue to invest and develop our platform to complete transactions in a more automated and tech enabled manner, portions of our platform rely upon manual procedures carried out by our private market specialists who help facilitate trades between buyers and sellers. We also generate revenues through our Forge Trust offering with account fees, cash management fees, and custody-as-a-service fees through custodial offerings, or custodial administration fees for all Forge customers and also through our Forge Intelligence offering and private company solutions. With respect to placement fee revenue, a decline in the price of securities transactions brokered by us, or a decline in the financial markets generally, or a decline in fee rates could negatively impact our revenue and overall financial position. Additionally, if we fail to acquire and retain new institutions, individual investors, and stockholders, or fail to do so in a cost-effective manner, we may be unable to increase revenue and achieve profitability for our Forge Markets and Forge Trust offerings. Additionally, our Forge Intelligence offering and private company solutions may not gain market acceptance or prove to be profitable in the long term. While some of our issuer customers may prefer that we not publish the transaction prices for transactions in their securities, which could impact our Forge Intelligence and Forge Markets offerings, we maintain that such prices are, by definition, information belonging to us. We negotiate exceptions to this policy on a case-by-case basis, and such exceptions have historically been very limited. We continually refine our revenue and business model, which is premised on creating a virtuous cycle for our customers to engage in more products across our platform. We promote our complementary offerings such as our Forge Intelligence offering and private company solutions to the institutions, individual investors, and stockholders who partake in our Forge Markets offering. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful or that we will generate revenues commensurate with our efforts and expectations, or become profitable. We may be forced to make significant changes to our revenue and business model to compete with our competitors offerings, and even if such changes are undertaken, there is no guarantee that they will be successful. Additionally, we will likely be required to hire, train, and integrate qualified personnel to meet and further our business objectives, and our ability to successfully do so is uncertain. If we are unable to develop new solutions or adapt to technological changes, our revenue may not grow as expected. We operate in a dynamic industry characterized by rapidly evolving technology, frequent product introductions, and competition based on pricing and other differentiators. Our scalability could be contingent on us successfully building a mobile app for our services, which may be expensive and time consuming, and the success of which is not guaranteed. In addition, we may increasingly rely on technological innovation as we introduce new types of products, expand our current products into new markets, and continue to streamline our platform. The process of developing new technologies and products is complex, and if we are unable to successfully innovate and continue to deliver a superior experience, demand for our products may decrease and our growth and operations may be harmed. If we fail to retain our existing customers or acquire new customers in a cost-effective manner, our business could be harmed. Our continued business and revenue growth is dependent on our ability to cost-effectively attract new customers, retain existing customers, and increase usage of our products and services, and we cannot be sure that we will be successful 14 Table of Contents in these efforts. As we expand our business operations and potentially enter new markets, new challenges in attracting and retaining customers will arise that we may not successfully address. We face intense and increasing competition and, if we do not compete effectively, our competitive positioning and operating results will be harmed. We expect our competition to continue to increase. In addition to established enterprises and global banks, we may also face competition from early-stage companies attempting to capitalize on the same, or similar, opportunities as we are. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources and a larger customer base than we do. Any of these advantages would allow competitors to potentially offer more competitive pricing or other terms or features, a broader range of investment and financial products, or a more specialized set of specific products or services, as well as respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer preferences. Our existing or future competitors may develop products or services that are similar to our products and services or that achieve greater market acceptance than our products and services, which could attract new customers away from our services and reduce our market share. Additionally, when new competitors seek to enter our markets, or when existing market participants seek to increase their market share, these competitors sometimes undercut, or otherwise exert pressure on, the pricing terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our revenues, market share, or ability to capitalize on new market opportunities. Given our focus on the private market, our customers may encounter additional risks when investing through our platform, including potential transfer or sale restrictions on securities, lack of information about private companies, opacity in pricing, and liquidity concerns. Institutions and individual investors face significant risk when buying securities on our platform, which may make our offerings generally less attractive. These risks include the following: private companies may exercise their right of first refusal over the securities or otherwise prohibit the transfer of the securities, and therefore certain securities on our platform may not be available to certain investors; private companies are not required to make periodic public filings, and therefore certain capitalization, operational, and financial information may not be available for evaluation; an investment may only be appropriate for investors with a long-term investment horizon and a capacity to absorb a loss of some or all of their investment; the securities, when purchased, are generally highly illiquid, are often subject to further transfer restrictions, and no public market exists for such securities; post-IPO transfer restrictions, including lock-up restrictions, may ultimately limit the ability to sell the securities on the open market; and transactions may fail to settle, which could harm our reputation. We have and may in the future become involved in, disputes or litigation matters between customers with respect to failed transactions on our platform (such as in the event of delayed delivery or a failure to deliver securities). We have and may in the future become involved in, disputes and litigation matters between customers with respect to transactions on our platform. The high notional value of transactions on our platform makes us a target for customers to engage in lawsuits between one another and/or with us. There is a risk that customers may increasingly look to us to make them whole for delayed and/or broken trades. Customers may litigate over a failure of sellers to deliver securities or over the untimely deliveries of securities. Any litigation to which we are a party could be expensive and time consuming, regardless of the ultimate outcome, and the potential costs and risks of such litigation may incentivize us to settle. Additionally, we may agree to forego commissions in a failed settlement situation even if we are not at fault or do not have an obligation to do so for customer relations or other reasons. If we reduce or forego commissions on behalf of customers, it would lead to a reduction in profits. 15 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage future growth by developing and investing in our infrastructure as appropriate, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have and expect to continue to experience growth, and intend to continue to expand our operations. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, significant demands on our management, operational, and financial infrastructure, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to manage such growth. Our future growth will depend on our ability to incur significant additional expenses and commit additional senior management and operational resources. To manage our growth effectively, we must continue to improve our operational, financial, and management systems and controls by, among other things: effectively attracting, training, integrating, and retaining new personnel; further improving our key business systems, processes, and information technology infrastructure, including our and third-party services, to support our business needs; enhancing our information, training, and communication systems to ensure that our personnel are well-coordinated and can effectively communicate with each other and our customers; and improving our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure