Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Motive Capital Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on September 28, 2020 under the name of MCF2 Acquisition Corp. On November 5, 2020 our name was changed to Motive Capital Corp. We were incorporated for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (a Business Combination). We are not limited to a particular industry or sector for purposes of consummating a Business Combination. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on December 10, 2020. On December 15, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 41,400,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units sold, the Public Shares) which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 5,400,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $414,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 7,386,667 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Motive Capital Funds Sponsor, LLC (our Sponsor), generating gross proceeds of $11,080,000. Transaction costs amounted to approximately $23,700,000, consisting of approximately $8,300,000 of underwriting fees, $14,500,000 of deferred underwriting fees and approximately $900,000 of other offering costs. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering on December 15, 2020, an amount of $414,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account), and invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund investing solely in U.S. Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earliest of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the funds in the Trust Account to our shareholders, as described below. 23 Table of Contents We will have until December 15, 2022 to consummate a Business Combination (the Combination Period). However, if we have not completed a Business Combination within the Combination Period, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then issued and outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish the rights of the Public Shareholders as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining Public Shareholders and our Board of Directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Proposed Business Combination On September 13, 2021, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the Merger Agreement), by and among us, FGI Merger Sub Inc., a Delaware corporation and our direct wholly owned subsidiary (Merger Sub), and Forge Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Forge). The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things, the following transactions: (i) we will change its jurisdiction of incorporation by transferring by way of continuation from the Cayman Islands and domesticating as a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware (the Domestication), and, in connection with the Domestication, (A) each of our outstanding Class A ordinary share will convert automatically into one share of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the Domesticated Company Common Stock), (B) each of our outstanding Class B ordinary shares will convert automatically into one share of Domesticated Company Common Stock, (C) each outstanding warrant to purchase one Class A ordinary share at an exercise price of $11.50 that was included in the Units sold as part of our initial public offering (a Public Warrant) will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a warrant to acquire one share of Domesticated Company Common Stock (Domesticated Company Public Warrant), (D) each outstanding Private Placement Warrant issued to our Sponsor will convert automatically, on a one-for-one basis, into a warrant to acquire one share of Domesticated Company Common Stock and (E) each outstanding of our Units, to the extent not already split by the holder thereof, convert automatically, into one share of Domesticated Company Common Stock and one-third of one Domesticated Company Public Warrant; and (ii) immediately following the Domestication, Merger Sub will merge with and into Forge, with Forge surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the Merger). Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, in consideration of the Merger, each outstanding share of Forges capital stock (excluding shares owned by the Company or by Forge as treasury stock or dissenting shares) (i) if vested, will be canceled and converted into the right to receive either cash or Domesticated Company Common Stock, or a combination thereof, equal to the Per-Share Merger Consideration, which mix of cash and stock shall correspond to that elected by each of holder of Forge vested shares; provided, that in no event shall a holder of Forge vested shares be permitted to elect greater than fifteen percent (15%) cash and in no event will the aggregate amount of cash payable to all holders of vested Forge shares exceed $100 million and (ii) if unvested, will be canceled and converted into the right to receive a number of shares of unvested Domesticated Company Common Stock (subject to the same terms and conditions, including with respect to vesting, as the unvested share of Forges capital stock) equal to (A) the Securities Merger Consideration multiplied by (B) the Exchange Ratio. The total consideration paid to holders of Forges outstanding equity securities will include shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock and options and warrants to acquire shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock, having an aggregate value equal to $1.5 billion, less the amount of any cash consideration payable to holders of vested Forge shares, consisting of (assuming the maximum amount of cash consideration) an aggregate of 140 million newly issued shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock and options and warrants to acquire shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock, in each case, with a deemed value of $10.00 per share solely for purposes of determining the aggregate number of shares payable to holders of Forge capital stock. As a result, at the closing of the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Closing), (i) each outstanding option to purchase Forge capital stock, whether vested or unvested, will be assumed and converted into an option with respect to a number of shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock in the manner set forth in the Merger Agreement and (ii) each outstanding warrant to purchase Forge capital stock, whether or not exercisable, will be assumed and converted into a warrant with respect to a number of shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock in the manner set forth in the Merger Agreement. 24 Table of Contents Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into that certain Sponsor Support Agreement (the Sponsor Agreement) with Forge, our Sponsor and other holders of Companys Class B ordinary shares pursuant to which our Sponsor and such holders of Class B ordinary shares have agreed to (i) vote all Class A ordinary shares they own in favor of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, (ii) waive certain anti-dilution rights with respect to their Class B ordinary shares, and (iii) agree to certain lock-up provisions. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into that certain Stockholder Support Agreement (the Stockholder Support Agreement) with Forge and certain Forge shareholders (the Supporting Shareholders) pursuant to which the Supporting Shareholders agreed to vote in favor of the Merger and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we amended and restated that certain Forward Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 24, 2020, by and between the Company, the Sponsor and certain affiliates of the Sponsor (the Purchasers; and such agreement the A&R Forward Purchase Agreement). Pursuant to the A&R Forward Purchase Agreement, subject to the fulfillment of certain conditions, the Purchasers will collectively purchase concurrently with the Closing, at a per-unit price of $10.00, 5,000,000 Forward Purchase Units, each composed of one share of Domesticated Company Common Stock and one-third of one Domesticated Company Public Warrant (a Forward Purchase Unit), and up to an additional 9,000,000 Forward Purchase Units to the extent of redemptions on a dollar-for-dollar basis by our shareholders of all or a portion of their Class A ordinary shares. For the avoidance of doubt, regardless of the extent of such redemptions, the Purchasers will in no event be required to purchase more than an aggregate amount of 14,000,000 Forward Purchase Units. The Merger Agreement contemplates that, at the Closing, the Company, our Sponsor, and certain Company and Forge stockholders will enter into a registration rights agreement pursuant to which, among other things, we will agree to undertake certain customary registration obligations in accordance with the Securities Act and certain subsequent related transactions and obligations. Pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, we will agree that, within 30 calendar days after the Closing, we will file with the SEC a registration statement registering the resale of certain securities held by or issuable to the stockholders party thereto, and use its reasonable best efforts to have such registration statement declared effective by the SEC as soon as practicable thereafter. Concurrent with the execution of the Merger Agreement, we entered into subscription agreements (each, a Subscription Agreement) with certain investors (the PIPE Investors) pursuant to which, among other things, the PIPE Investors have agreed to subscribe for and purchase, and we have agreed to issue and sell to the PIPE Investors an aggregate of 6.85 million shares of Domesticated Company Common Stock, at a per share price of $10.00 for an aggregate purchase price of $68,500,000, concurrent with the Closing, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein (the PIPE Financing). The Subscription Agreement contains customary representations and warranties of the Company, on the one hand, and each PIPE Investor, on the other hand, and customary conditions to closing, including the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Each Subscription Agreement provides that we will grant the PIPE Investors certain customary registration rights. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception through September 30, 2021, was in preparation for an Initial Public Offering, and since our Initial Public Offering, our activity has been limited to the search for a prospective initial Business Combination and activities in connection with the proposed Merger. We will not generate any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of investment income from our investments held in the Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $11.4 million, which consisted of a non-operating loss of approximately $8.5 million resulting from the change in fair value of derivative liabilities and approximately $2.9 million in general and administrative expenses, partially offset by an approximate $10,000 gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest on investments held in Trust Account. For the nine months ended September 30, 2021, we had net income of approximately $6.7 million, which consisted of a non-operating gain of approximately $11.3 million resulting from the change in fair value of derivative liabilities, and approximately $80,000 of gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest on investments held in Trust Account, partially offset by an approximate $4.7 million in general and administrative expenses. 25 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2021, we had approximately $715,000 in cash and a working capital deficit of approximately $2.8 million. In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may loan us funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If we complete a Business Combination, we will repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. As of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Working Capital Loans. Based on the foregoing, including the ability of the Company to draw upon the Working Capital Loans, Management believes that the Company will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of the Business Combination or the date the Company is required to liquidate. Over this time period, the Company will be using the working capital funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective Initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Initial Business Combination. Contractual Obligations Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration and shareholders rights agreement entered into on December 10, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and any warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans) will have registration rights to require the Company to register a sale of any of our securities held by them pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. The registration rights agreement does not contain liquidating damages or other cash settlement provisions resulting from delays in registering our securities. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 14,490,000 Over-Allotment Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters were entitled to underwriting discounts of $0.35 per unit, or approximately $14,490,000 in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 26 Table of Contents Administrative Support Agreement We entered into an agreement, commencing on December 15, 2020 the effective date of the Initial Public Offering through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or the Companys liquidation, to pay our Sponsor or its affiliate a monthly fee of up to $10,000 for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative services. As of September 30, 2021, we did not incur any fees for the administrative support. Our Sponsor has waived such fees and such fees will not be payable until our Sponsor determines that such fees should be paid. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our condensed consolidated financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Derivative liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to FASB ASC Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The Public Warrants and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjusts the carrying value of the instruments to fair value at each reporting period until they are exercised. The initial fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering were estimated using a binomial lattice model in a risk-neutral framework. The fair value of the Public Warrants as of September 30, 2021 is based on observable listed prices for such warrants. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants as of September 30, 2021 is based on the value of the Public Warrants given the low likelihood of the Companys ordinary share price exceeding $18.00 by the start of the exercise period. The fair value of the forward purchase agreement is based on the fair value of the Companys publicly traded Units on each valuation date, less the present value of the contractually stipulated forward price of $10.00. The determination of the fair value of derivative liabilities may be subject to change as more current information becomes available and accordingly the actual results could differ significantly. Derivative liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events, Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity. Accordingly, as of September 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, a total of 41,400,000 shares of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. 27 Table of Contents Immediately upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we recognized the accretion from initial book value to redemption amount value. The change in the carrying value of the redeemable Class A ordinary shares resulted in charges against additional paid-in capital and accumulated deficit. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share We comply with accounting and disclosure requirements of FASB ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. We have two classes of shares, which are referred to as Class A ordinary shares and Class B ordinary shares. Income and losses are shared pro rata between the two classes of shares. Net income (loss) per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the net income (loss) by the weighted average ordinary shares outstanding for the respective period. The calculation of diluted net income (loss) does not consider the effect of the warrants underlying the Units sold in the Initial Public Offering and the private placement warrants to purchase an aggregate of 19,458,000 Class A ordinary shares in the calculation of diluted income (loss) per share, because their inclusion would be anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method. As a result, diluted net income (loss) per share is the same as basic net income (loss) per share for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2021. Accretion associated with the redeemable Class A ordinary shares is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Adopted Accounting Standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU No. 2020-06, Debt-Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity , which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. We early adopted the ASU on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Issued Accounting Standards Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.