Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, our, us or we refer to Motive Capital Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated as a Cayman Islands exempted company on September 28, 2020 under the name of MCF2 Acquisition Corp. On November 5, 2020 our name was changed to Motive Capital Corp. We were incorporated for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (a Business Combination). We are not limited to a particular industry or sector for purposes of consummating a Business Combination. We are an early stage and emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with early stage and emerging growth companies. The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on December 10, 2020. On December 15, 2020, we consummated the Initial Public Offering of 41,400,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A ordinary shares included in the Units sold, the Public Shares) which includes the full exercise by the underwriter of its over-allotment option in the amount of 5,400,000 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $414,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the sale of 7,386,667 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to Motive Capital Funds Sponsor, LLC (our Sponsor), generating gross proceeds of $11,080,000. Transaction costs amounted to approximately $23,700,000, consisting of approximately $8,300,000 of underwriting fees, $14,500,000 of deferred underwriting fees and approximately $880,000 of other offering costs. Following the closing of the Initial Public Offering on December 15, 2020, an amount of $414,000,000 ($10.00 per Unit) from the net proceeds of the sale of the Units in the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants was placed in a trust account (the Trust Account), and invested in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less, or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund investing solely in U.S. Treasuries and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by us, until the earliest of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the funds in the Trust Account to our shareholders, as described below. 22 Table of Contents We will have until December 15, 2022 to consummate a Business Combination (the Combination Period). However, if we have not completed a Business Combination within the Combination Period, we will (i) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up, (ii) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than ten business days thereafter, redeem 100% of the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest earned and not previously released to us to pay our taxes, if any (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), divided by the number of then issued and outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish the rights of the Public Shareholders as shareholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any), and (iii) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of our remaining Public Shareholders and our Board of Directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to our obligations under Cayman Islands law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception through June 30, 2021, was in preparation for an Initial Public Offering, and since our Initial Public Offering, our activity has been limited to the search for a prospective initial Business Combination. We will not generate any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of investment income from our investments held in the Trust Account. We expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $2.9 million, which consisted of a non-operating loss of approximately $1.4 million resulting from the change in fair value of derivative liabilities and approximately $1.5 million in general and administrative expenses, partially offset by an approximate $10,000 gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest on investments held in Trust Account. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had net income of approximately $18.0 million, which consisted of a non-operating gain of approximately $19.7 million resulting from the change in fair value of derivative liabilities, and approximately $70,000 of gain on marketable securities, dividends and interest on investments held in Trust Account, partially offset by an approximate $1.8 million in general and administrative expenses. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $1 million in cash and working capital of approximately $136,000. In order to finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, our Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors may loan us funds as may be required (Working Capital Loans). If we complete a Business Combination, we will repay the Working Capital Loans out of the proceeds of the Trust Account released to us. Otherwise, the Working Capital Loans would be repaid only out of funds held outside the Trust Account. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of proceeds held outside the Trust Account to repay the Working Capital Loans, but no proceeds held in the Trust Account would be used to repay the Working Capital Loans. Except for the foregoing, the terms of such Working Capital Loans, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. The Working Capital Loans would either be repaid upon consummation of a Business Combination, without interest, or, at the lenders discretion, up to $1,500,000 of such Working Capital Loans may be convertible into warrants of the post-Business Combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant. The warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. As of June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Working Capital Loans. Based on the foregoing, including the ability of us to draw upon the Working Capital Loans, we believe that we will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity to meet our needs through the earlier of the consummation of the Business Combination or the date we are required to liquidate. Over this time period, we will be using the working capital funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective Initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Initial Business Combination. 23 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Registration Rights Pursuant to a registration and shareholders rights agreement entered into on December 10, 2020, the holders of the Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and any warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans (and any Class A ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans) will have registration rights to require the Company to register a sale of any of our securities held by them pursuant to a registration rights agreement. The holders of these securities are entitled to make up to three demands, excluding short form demands, that we register such securities. In addition, the holders have certain piggy-back registration rights with respect to registration statements filed subsequent to the completion of a Business Combination. The registration rights agreement does not contain liquidating damages or other cash settlement provisions resulting from delays in registering our securities. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 14,490,000 Over-Allotment Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price less underwriting discounts and commissions. The underwriters were entitled to underwriting discounts of $0.35 per unit, or approximately $14,490,000 in the aggregate will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that we complete a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Administrative Support Agreement We entered into an agreement, commencing on December 15, 2020 the effective date of the Initial Public Offering through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or the Companys liquidation, to pay our Sponsor or its affiliate a monthly fee of up to $10,000 for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative services. As of June 30, 2021, we did not incur any fees for the administrative support. Our Sponsor has waived such fees and such fees will not be payable until our Sponsor determines that such fees should be paid. Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our condensed financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these condensed financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our condensed financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Derivative liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of its financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to the Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be recorded as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. 24 Table of Contents The Public Warrants and the Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, we recognize the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjusts the carrying value of the instruments to fair value at each reporting period until they are exercised. The initial fair value of the Public Warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering were estimated using a binomial lattice model in a risk-neutral framework. The fair value of the Public Warrants as of June 30, 2021 is based on observable listed prices for such warrants. The fair value of the Private Placement Warrants as of June 30, 2021 is based on the value of the Public Warrants given the low likelihood of the Companys ordinary share price exceeding $18.00 by the start of the exercise period. The fair value of the forward purchase agreement is based on the fair value of the Companys publicly traded Units on each valuation date, less the present value of the contractually stipulated forward price of $10.00. The determination of the fair value of derivative liabilities may be subject to change as more current information becomes available and accordingly the actual results could differ significantly. Derivative liabilities are classified as non-current liabilities as their liquidation is not reasonably expected to require the use of current assets or require the creation of current liabilities. Class A Ordinary Shares Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in ASC 480. Class A ordinary shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A ordinary shares (including Class A ordinary shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A ordinary shares are classified as shareholders equity. Our Class A ordinary shares feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events, Accordingly, Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented at redemption value as temporary equity. Accordingly, as of June 30, 2021 and December 31, 2020, a total of 37,394,696 and 35,590,797 shares, respectively, of Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the shareholders equity section of our unaudited condensed balance sheets. Net Income (Loss) Per Ordinary Share Our unaudited condensed statements of operations include a presentation of net income (loss) per share for Class A ordinary shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of net income (loss) per ordinary share. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class A ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the interest income earned on the Trust Account, less interest available to be withdrawn for the payment of taxes, by the weighted average number of Class A ordinary shares outstanding for the periods. Net income (loss) per ordinary share, basic and diluted, for Class B ordinary shares is calculated by dividing the net income (loss), adjusted for income attributable to Class A ordinary shares, by the weighted average number of Class B ordinary shares outstanding for the periods. Class B ordinary shares include the Founder Shares as these shares do not have any redemption features and do not participate in the income earned on the Trust Account. The calculation of diluted net income (loss) per ordinary share does not consider the effect of the warrants issued in connection with the Initial Public Offering and Private Placement since the exercise price of the warrants is in excess of the average ordinary share price for the period and therefore the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. Recent Adopted Accounting Standards In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity , which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception and it also simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. We early adopted the ASU on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Issued Accounting Standards Our management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards updates, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on the accompanying condensed financial statements. 25 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the condensed financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.