Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products, product approvals, research and development costs, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations and future results of anticipated products, are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10K are only predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10K and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described under the sections in this Annual Report on Form 10K titled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10K. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors and uncertainties. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Forian, registrant, the Company, we, us, and our mean Forian Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Forian is a leading provider of data science driven information and analytics solutions to the life science, healthcare and financial services industries. We provide a unique suite of data management capabilities and proprietary enriched information and analytics solutions to optimize and measure operational, clinical and financial performance for our customers. Our subscription and services-based solutions cover the life sciences, pharmaceutical services, healthcare payer and provider and financial services industries. Forian was founded on October 15, 2020, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Medical Outcomes Research Analytics, LLC (MOR), which was founded on May 6, 2019, in connection with the business combination transactions described below. On October 16, 2020, Forian entered into a definitive agreement with Helix Technologies, Inc. (Helix) and MOR, pursuant to which DNA Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Forian (Merger Sub), merged with and into Helix, with Helix surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Forian (the Merger). On March 2, 2021, Forian entered into a definitive agreement with the equity holders of MOR pursuant to which the equity holders of MOR contributed their interests in MOR to Forian in exchange for shares of Forian common stock (the Contribution and together with the Merger, the Business Combination). Following consummation of the Business Combination on March 2, 2021, Forian became the parent company of both Helix and MOR. On March 3, 2021, Forians common stock, par value $0.001 per share, commenced trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol FORA. 4 Table of Contents On February 10, 2023, Helix completed the sale of 100% of the outstanding capital stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Bio-Tech Medical Software, Inc., a Florida corporation (BioTrack), to BT Assets Group Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleaves Inc., a Delaware corporation (Alleaves) (the BioTrack Transaction). BioTracks primary business was the provision of software solutions to state governments and licensees within the cannabis industry. As a result of the BioTrack Transaction, as of February 10, 2023, we no longer provide software solutions to the cannabis industry; however, we retained certain license rights with respect to transactional data processed by the BioTrack point of sale software solution for future use in our information offerings. The results of the BioTrack business, together with the prior security monitoring and web services businesses sold on March 3, 2022 and October 31, 2022, respectively (collectively, the Helix Businesses), are presented as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and, as such, have been excluded from continuing operations. Refer to Note 4 Discontinued Operations in