Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7, contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical facts contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including statements regarding our future results of operations and financial position, business strategy, prospective products, product approvals, research and development costs, timing and likelihood of success, plans and objectives of management for future operations and future results of anticipated products, are forward-looking statements. These statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors that may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terms such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, could, intend, target, project, contemplate, believe, estimate, predict, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other similar expressions. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10K are only predictions. We have based these forward-looking statements largely on our current expectations and projections about future events and financial trends that we believe may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10K and are subject to a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions described under the sections in this Annual Report on Form 10K titled Risk Factors and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10K. Because forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, some of which cannot be predicted or quantified and some of which are beyond our control, you should not rely on these forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. The events and circumstances reflected in our forward-looking statements may not be achieved or occur and actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Moreover, we operate in an evolving environment. New risk factors and uncertainties may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for management to predict all risk factors and uncertainties. Except as required by applicable law, we do not plan to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements contained herein, whether as a result of any new information, future events, changed circumstances or otherwise. As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms Forian, registrant, the Company, we, us, and our mean Forian Inc. and its subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise. PART I Item 1. Business Overview Forian Inc. provides a unique suite of data management capabilities and proprietary information and analytics solutions to optimize and measure operational, clinical and financial performance for customers within the traditional and emerging life sciences and healthcare payer and provider industries. Forian was founded on October 15, 2020, as a wholly owned subsidiary of Medical Outcomes Research Analytics, LLC (MOR), which was founded on May 6, 2019, in connection with the business combination transactions described below. On October 16, 2020, Forian entered into a definitive agreement with Helix Technologies, Inc. (Helix) and MOR, pursuant to which DNA Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Forian (Merger Sub), merged with and into Helix, with Helix surviving the merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Forian (the Merger). On March 2, 2021, Forian entered into a definitive agreement with the equity holders of MOR pursuant to which the equity holders of MOR contributed their interests in MOR to Forian in exchange for shares of Forian common stock (the Contribution and together with the Merger, the Business Combination). Following consummation of the Business Combination on March 2, 2021, Forian became the parent company of both Helix and MOR. On March 3, 2021, Forians common stock, par value $0.001 per share, commenced trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market (Nasdaq) under the ticker symbol FORA. 4 Table of Contents On February 10, 2023, Helix completed the sale of 100% of the outstanding capital stock of its wholly owned subsidiary, Bio-Tech Medical Software, Inc., a Florida corporation (BioTrack), to BT Assets Group Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Alleaves Inc., a Delaware corporation (Alleaves) (the BioTrack Transaction). As a result of the BioTrack Transaction, as of February 10, 2023, we no longer provide software solutions to the cannabis industry. We retained certain license rights with respect to transactional data processed by the BioTrack point of sale software solution for use in our information offerings. For further discussion on the BioTrack Transaction, refer to Note 20 Subsequent Events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our principal executive offices are located at 41 University Drive, Suite 400, Newtown, Pennsylvania 18940 and our primary website address is www.forian.com. The reference to the Forian website address does not constitute incorporation by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the information contained at or available through our website. Our Business Forian is derived from Greek work, plirofoa , meaning information or intelligence. At Forian, we are building a leading healthcare informatics and analytics solutions company. We leverage our expertise in data management and data science to generate information products and insights that improve our customers performance. Our solutions sit atop a massive and perpetually growing expanse of large-scale data assets. Our offerings include innovative commercial, Real World Evidence (RWE) and market access solutions and proprietary data-driven insights to optimize the operational, clinical and financial performance of our customers. As the cost of healthcare delivery and research continues to expand rapidly, entities across the healthcare ecosystem are increasingly interested in the patient health journey to better understand the cost, value and efficacy of healthcare products and services in order to improve commercial effectiveness by targeting and segmenting customers more effectively and to understand access to products and services based on insurance coverage. Additionally, emerging therapeutics are increasingly becoming part of the patient journey and may offer greater pharmacoeconomic benefit and generate superior outcomes. However, adoption of alternative therapies is consistently thwarted by a lack of trusted information. Data on emerging therapeutics, such as cannabinoids and psychedelics, is typically difficult to acquire and neither standardized nor normalized and, consequently, patients, providers and payers are hesitant to leverage cannabinoids and psychedelics as therapeutics in the patient journey. Forian is uniquely positioned to overcome this challenge by leveraging cannabinoid data to provide mission critical clinical and commercial intelligence to customers across traditional healthcare and emerging therapeutic markets. Our agile structure has allowed us to build market-driven product and service offerings, as described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, that deliver value to customers at various stages of maturity by providing proprietary data insights to drive business and product innovation. Our Markets U.S. healthcare spending is roughly 18% of GDP, and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services expect the growth patterns to increase the spending back to roughly 20% of GDP following the significant impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Outside the pandemic, the market has been expanding and evolving rapidly over the past decade due to an aging population, innovations in treatments and a reimagining of service delivery. There has been a growing emphasis on digitizing medical records and providing access to those records to providers and patients in support of more efficient and effective care. Disparate, unconnected systems, new diagnostics and treatment protocols are all generating new sources of data. In addition, data is being generated from retailers, social media and the internet. Collectively, the expansion of the volume and type of data has created challenges in making information interoperable and actionable. New and existing sources of data are often unstructured, preventing the seamless ability to derive valuable insights. New systems and solutions are needed to provide accessible and statistically significant data sets that offer the ability to conduct longitudinal analyses. The derived information and business intelligence is relevant to all healthcare stakeholders, and we believe there is an increasing need for the aggregation and integration of the large clinical data sets, irrespective of the source (e.g., traditional healthcare systems or emerging technologies). 5 Table of Contents The global market for healthcare analytics was approximately $17 billion in 2017 and is expected to grow to an estimated $69 billion by 2025 according to BIS Research: Global Big Data in Healthcare Market; Analysis and Forecast, 2017-2025 . We view this market in three principal segments: clinical analytics, commercial analytics and technology platform solutions. The market for clinical analytics includes RWE, health economics, outcomes research databases and analytic platforms as well as clinical data capture, clinical analytics and research services, investigator site and patient recruitment, observation studies and pharmacoeconomics. The market for commercial analytics includes customer segmentation and targeting, campaign measurement, longitudinal patient analytics and payer market access analytics. The market for technology platform solutions includes information technology, data management, data warehousing, IT outsourcing and software development. We believe that RWE continues to drive value for all healthcare stakeholders. The proliferation of information technology and analytics extends well beyond life sciences. Information is critical to the ability for payers to manage and price risk effectively. The emergence of new data assets and technology have enabled better risk stratification, treatment protocol development and decision making relating to coverage of existing and emerging therapies. The ability to enter into value-based contracts is predicated on access to RWE related data and analytics. Similarly, the healthcare delivery system is changing rapidly with telehealth and remote based monitoring become critical. As such, providers require more information to inform treatment decisions. This requires connectivity and access to their patients information including the use of over-the-counter and unapproved pharmaceutical treatments. Absent standards and the ability to capture and integrate these data into their medical records, they will lack the information required to guide the most effective treatments. Institutional healthcare providers are losing large numbers of patients and large amounts of revenue due to changes in where and how healthcare is delivered, reduced demand for elective procedures due to COVID-19 and intense competition for customers and referrals. Provider profiling data, market supply and demand analytics and treatment protocol improvements all require information that we are well suited to deliver. Life science companies need to fully understand how, when and why patients are treated with both traditional and alternative therapies. This understanding is incomplete without extending the understanding of the patient journey to emerging therapeutics, including cannabis-based treatments. Additionally, this evidence is also used to provide insights for product development, regulatory approval and monitoring of products after they have been released in the market. The use of cannabis for medical purposes is gaining momentum worldwide due to recent legalization and emerging research into therapeutic value and efficacy. Medical cannabis is used for the treatment of a growing array of diseases and chronic conditions, including but not limited to pain, inflammation, arthritis, anxiety, depression, epilepsy and Parkinsons and Alzheimers diseases. Life science companies need to fully understand how, when and why patients are treated with both traditional and alternative therapies. This understanding is incomplete without extending the understanding of the patient journey to emerging therapeutics including cannabis-based treatments. Governments, manufacturers, cultivators and distributors as well as dispensaries need information on the safety and efficacy of cannabis in both medical and adult use settings. As legalization and usage expands rapidly, providers, patients and caregivers want more assurance of the quality and consistency of the products and insight into therapeutic alternatives for treatment of chronic conditions. There is little to no understanding of the benefit of alternative therapeutic interventions used in place of or concomitantly with traditional therapeutics. The life science industry is currently investing in over 100 clinical trials for cannabis-based products which is indicative of these treatment alternatives becoming increasingly mainstream. Our Offerings Our mission is to provide our clients with superior information and analytical solutions that promote safer, more efficient and profitable business operations. Additionally, we strive to improve the health outcomes of patients by enabling our clients to serve their customers more comprehensively. Our ultimate goal is to empower our clients to make a positive impact on both their businesses and their customers well-being. 6 Table of Contents We have developed a Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (HIPAA), compliant repository of longitudinal de-identified patient health information in the United States. Our databases are updated weekly or monthly and include billions of de-identified patient events dating back to 2014 and represent the majority of the U.S. population. Our data factory processes, standardizes and integrates complex and disparate transactional data, such as medical, hospital and pharmacy claims, healthcare payer remittances, retail point of sale transactions and consumer demographics as well as social determinants of health. With deep domain knowledge, our team architected our technology platform to meet and exceed the strictest data privacy requirements in highly regulated industries. These integrated data are used to power multiple existing and in-development information products and services for customers across the healthcare industry. Our products will assist our clients to better understand the value and efficacy of healthcare and emerging alternative therapeutics while providing critical business insights into our customers products, services, customers and the dynamics of a rapidly changing marketplace. Technology & Information Products Our information products provide a more complete patient treatment care pathways with comprehensive overviews of therapeutic interventions. By leveraging HIPAA-compliant processes, proprietary algorithms and technology, we have created a suite of information product offerings integrating data from siloed, disparate sources and platforms. This includes the intersection of traditional healthcare therapies with alternative therapeutics. We believe these offerings deliver unique and innovative key insights and value to our customers. We have contracted with multiple third-party data providers to license data that we believe is necessary to provide our information offerings. These agreements provide our clients solutions to drive clinical and commercial performance improvements. Our information products are largely subscription based, multiyear contracts providing solutions tailored to specific client needs to power innovative solutions for the healthcare market or used internally for commercial and clinical analytics. Information products are also purchased on a one-time basis as a custom report to meet a specific analytic need. These products typically provide normalized and aggregated market measures which our clients use to make investment, product, clinical, or other commercial decisions to maximize their return on investment. In the creation of our information products, we leverage various deterministic and probabilistic matching techniques that work on hashed and encrypted data to both ensure accurate patient matching and enumeration while maintaining patient/customer privacy. As new patients/customers are constantly entering the system, this is not a moment-in-time function, but rather an ongoing process that needs to be carefully managed and continuously tested to ensure low rates of false positive and false negative matches. Our technology products offered to the cannabis industry prior to the BioTrack Transaction included the BioTrack vertically integrated point of sale, manufacturing, delivery and cultivator software solution and the Cannalytics SaaS-based analytics solution. The BioTrack solution was first introduced in 2010 and is among the most tenured and largest commercial platforms in the cannabis industry, serving dispensaries, cultivators, manufacturers and distributors within 38 states and Puerto Rico as of the date of the BioTrack Transaction. The Cannalytics solution is a software-as-a-service that enables customers across the legal cannabis industry to better attract and retain customers, purchase, distribute and invest in products and understand marketplace dynamics that impact business performance. As a result of the BioTrack Transaction, we no longer offer these products. 7 Table of Contents Services We continue to develop RWE and data management solutions to assist customers seeking to understand the safety, efficacy, and therapeutics of traditional and emerging therapies. Our project-based RWE solutions are designed to enable the integration otherwise unconnected and disparate data to enable near real-time surveillance of adverse events and to study the clinical economic and social impacts of various therapeutic alternatives, including those derived from cannabinoids and psychedelics. These solutions will enable up to clinical-grade observational research to be conducted to evaluate the impact of emerging therapies on patient outcomes and as alternatives to existing therapies and will support: the delivery of evidence-based insight into the safety and efficacy of ethical pharmaceuticals and emerging therapies to pharmaceutical manufacturers, physicians, caregivers, payers and patients with credible evidence to improve patient care and health outcomes; the empowerment of regulators to more-granularly assess the safety, health, social and economic outcomes associated with all therapeutic options as the cannabis market scales and emerging therapies are adopted as mainstream therapeutic alternatives; and the creation of new standards for product and treatment classification in emerging therapeutic markets where no existing or widely adopted standards exist today. Our data management solutions will enable our customers to leverage their own proprietary data independently or integrated with our data assets. We have the ability to clean, standardize, normalize and integrate information in a privacy compliant way. We are further developing our proprietary reference data assets, ontologies and patient and customer masters, each to be used as the standard to which customer data can be mapped and standardized for analytic purposes. These cleansed data can be used as the foundation of our information products, RWE solutions, custom analytics and reporting, or provided back to our clients to be used within their own operational and analytics processes. Clients can leverage these services on a one time or repeatable basis depending on their specific needs. As of the date of the BioTrack Transaction, the BioTrack seed-to-sale compliance traceability platform was used by 10 state regulatory agencies (including Puerto Rico) to manage the tracking and tracing of all cannabis products from cultivation to sale and 2 state regulatory agencies contract with BioTrack to manage cannabis patient registries. As legalization at the state level in the United States continues for both medical and expanding adult use, seed-to-sale tracking will be the foundational compliance tool used by governments to regulate the extensive legal cannabis market. The BioTrack State Traceability & Enforcement Monitoring System includes all the components needed to ensure transparency and accountability throughout the entire cannabis supply chain while promoting public safety. The BioTrack State Traceability & Enforcement Monitoring System was included in the BioTrack Transaction, and as a result we no longer offer these services effective February 10, 2023. Our Competitive Strengths We believe our key competitive strengths include: Flexible and scalable approach to privacy-focused analytics software and solutions. Our solutions are purpose-built to address the analytic needs of stakeholders across the patient journey. We can provide client-centric deliverables that address a specific need that may be satisfied with healthcare data, cannabis data or an integrated offering. Our technology and processes allow quick and accurate delivery, which differentiates our offerings. Deep domain expertise. Our knowledge base in large transactional database platforms, commercial analytics, consumer and physician marketing, market access and healthcare economics and pharmacoeconomics in healthcare enables us to develop solutions that address the unique demands of the industries we serve. Through the incorporation of industry best practices into solutions that are curated for our stakeholders, our customers enjoy enhanced analytical solutions to drive their informed business decisions. Across various disciplines, our team has deep industry expertise in life sciences that translates into solutions by design that enable our clients to solve problems unique to their sector. Diverse customer base. Our customer base extends across to a broad range of stakeholders within the healthcare industry carrying the mission to better understand and improve the patient journey. This diverse customer set offers us a uniquely informed point of view from each customer vantage point of how our solutions can best assist in optimizing performance. Our information services team is defined by the innovative spirit of allowing the problems our healthcare customers face to shape the solutions that are best for our customers. 8 Table of Contents Large integrated longitudinal database and technology. Our data factory processes, integrates, deidentifies and standardizes medical, hospital and pharmacy claims datasets along with cannabis point of sale data, consumer behavior and demographic-level data and other datasets to produce a longitudinal database that encompass the vast majority of the U.S. population. We will continue to invest in and integrate unique data sources to further strengthen and differentiate our solutions. Our Growth Strategies We strive to improve our customers commercial and clinical business performance and in turn the efficiencies and safety of therapeutic products through our customers adoption of our information solutions. We intend to continue investing in commercial sales, research and development and our strategic partnerships. We believe that we are well positioned to achieve our growth objectives across multiple industry verticals. Key elements of our strategy include: Innovate and advance our platform and services. We have a history of technological innovation, and plan to release new features and upgrades on a regular basis. We intend to continue making significant investments in all information products, reporting and analytics solutions, database architecture and data science talent to further differentiate our products and increase sales. In improving our ability to integrate with partners, we enable ourselves to capitalize on new data and services that add value to our customers and create further differentiation of our data assets and proprietary offerings. Drive growth by acquiring new customers. We believe that nearly all organizations that discover, develop, produce and market healthcare products or services must embrace data driven analytics to compete effectively. As such, the opportunity to continue growing our customer base is significant. Increase usage and upsell within our existing customer base. We plan to continue investing in sales and marketing, with a focus on cross selling additional information solutions to deliver more value to and expand our relationships with our customers, leading to scale and operating leverage for our business. Leverage our products into new markets. Our information solutions provide innovative benefits to life science, payer and provider customers as well as consulting and service providers to these customers. We believe there is significant opportunity to deploy the use of linked cannabinoid data in adjacent industries, such as the legal cannabis and psychedelic markets as well as the financial services markets. Expand our data and strategic partner network. Our information products are derived partly from data acquired from strategic data partners, including BioTrack. As part of our growth strategy, we may seek to acquire assets, data-driven products or companies that are synergistic with our business and add value to our data assets and offering sets. Grow offerings through selective investments and acquisitions. We may seek out companies and opportunities that complement our core strengths and can help us expand our capabilities, reach and impact. Our approach is deliberate and strategic, ensuring that each investment or acquisition is thoroughly vetted and aligned with our long-term goals. Our Technology Platform Our unique software, data and analytics platforms are built upon scalable open source software running in the public cloud. This architecture allows us to capitalize on the security, reliability and scalability of mainstream cloud providers while building uniquely differentiated algorithms and data handling methodologies. Our use of elastic computing allows us to allocate computer clusters on-demand at scale to process terabytes of data in minutes. We are able to answer complex consumer behavior or life sciences questions quickly without having to maintain servers or pay for idle compute resources. 9 Table of Contents Our event-driven data factory architecture ingests, cleans, anonymizes and transforms health, consumer and retail records as available rather than on a fixed schedule. As data updates are observed from disparate sources, they are propagated through all pipeline stages, ensuring customers have the latest data in near real time. Through the use of open-source technologies, our big data processing pipelines are streamlined and can more easily handle changes in data schema, data drift, and the updating and deleting of existing records compliant with policies such as HIPAA, the California Consumer Privacy Act and emerging state privacy regulations. Capabilities like time-travel enabled by Delta Lake storage formats allow for full versioning of all data over time so that we observe a record throughout its entire lifecycle. Our architecture natively supports schema evolution allowing for flexibility to bring in new fields of data as they become available as well as handle backward-compatible changes in data types over time. Our proprietary solutions provide fully de-identified records in isolated clearinghouses using leading technologies paired with statistical certification by industry-vertical experts. Our solutions join records longitudinally over time, as well as across data sources. This allows for superior flexibility for analysis and use case development while maintaining security and mitigating reidentification risk. We maintain System and Organization Controls (SOC 2) Type 2 and Privacy certifications across our platforms. We conduct our day-to-day operations in accordance with policies and procedures to mitigate risks associated with our trust policies including security, availability, processing integrity and confidentiality of our systems, products and services. The SOC 2 and Privacy programs are audited by an independent third party on an annual basis. Competition While the healthcare industry includes well-capitalized, experienced competitors, we believe our unique data assets, synergies, intellectual property and experienced leadership offer us competitive advantages. In general, our competitors include a variety of entities such as information and clinical analytics providers such as ICON plc, information and commercial analytics providers such as IQVIA, technology and services provers such as Veeva Systems, Inc. and Definitive Healthcare Corp. and client in-house developed technologies. Government Regulation Our information management services relate to the processing of information regarding de-identified patient diagnosis and treatment of disease and are, therefore, subject to substantial governmental regulation. In addition, the confidentiality of patient-specific information and the circumstances under which such patient-specific records may be released for inclusion in our databases or used in other aspects of our business is heavily regulated. Federal, state and foreign governments are contemplating or have proposed or adopted additional legislation governing the possession, use and dissemination of personal data, such as personal health information and personal financial data, as well as security breach notification rules for loss or theft of such data. Additional legislation or regulation of this type might, among other things, require us to implement additional security measures and processes or bring within the legislation or regulation de-identified health or other data, each of which may require substantial expenditures or limit our ability to offer some of our services. In particular, personal health information is recognized in many countries and regions such as the United States, the European Union, or EU, and several countries in Asia, as a special, sensitive category of personal information, subject to additional mandatory protections. Violations of data protection regulations are subject to administrative penalties, civil money penalties and criminal prosecution, including corporate fines and personal liability. Our technology processes, normalizes, standardizes, and integrates complex and disparate transactional data, such as medical, hospital and pharmacy claims data, retail point of sale transactions and consumer demographic data. We have developed our platform with strict, HIPAA-compliant privacy controls enabling linkages between the transactional data sources while maintaining patient, consumer, and customer privacy. All data are de-identified at the person level, enabling longitudinal, credible, evidence-based assessments relating to product safety, efficacy, and clinical outcomes as well as commercial analytics. 10 Table of Contents Intellectual Property In addition to our expansive data sets described above, we develop and use a number of proprietary methodologies, analytics, systems, technologies, software and other intellectual property in the conduct of our business. We rely upon a combination of legal, technical and administrative safeguards to protect our proprietary and confidential information and trade secrets, and patent, copyright and trademark laws to protect other intellectual property rights. We consider our trademark and related names, marks and logos to be of material importance to our business, and we have registered or applied for registration for certain of these trademarks in the United States and will aggressively seek to protect them. Trademarks and service marks generally may be renewed indefinitely so long as they are in use and/or their registrations are properly maintained, and so long as they have not been found to have become generic. The technology and other intellectual property rights owned and licensed by us are of importance to our business, although our management believes that our business, as a whole, is not dependent upon any one intellectual property or group of such properties. Human Capital Resources The foundation of our software, data and analytics solutions is our people, and the level of our success in helping our customers solve problems is a direct function of our commitment to our employees. Our intent is to continue to build a first-class organization premised on the importance of our contribution to customer success while remaining ever conscious of our responsibility to our employees and the communities in which we operate. We are committed to equity and fairness in honoring our commitment to our employees. As set forth in our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics , diversity across gender, race, ethnicity, religion, politics, sexual orientation, age, experience and thought enhances our ability to support our customers, suppliers, partners and employees. In fostering a culture of inclusion, we enable each of us to present our authentic selves in our dealings with the people with whom we interact, and in so doing allow us to be more effective and impactful in the performance of our responsibilities. We embrace the opportunity to enable our customers to better serve their customers and continually seek to improve the value we bring, all while maintaining a critical balance between our employees work with colleagues and customers and their lives outside of Forian. In order to prioritize the health and safety of our employees, following the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020, we transitioned to remote work and continue to engage with and support our employees as they serve one another and our customers remotely. As of December 31, 2022, we had 104 employees, 102 of whom were full time. As of March 27, 2023, after giving effect to the BioTrack Transaction, we had 39 employees, 38 of whom are full time. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement or are represented by a labor union. We have not experienced any organized work stoppages, and we consider the relationships with our employees to be positive. Available Information We make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC through the investor relations section of our website at https://forian.com/investors/sec-filings. The information found on our website is not incorporated into this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. Item 1A . Risk Factors An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment in our common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected if any of these risks occurs, and as a result, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Business Operations We have a limited operating and financial history. We are in the development stage and face all of the risks and uncertainties associated with a new and unproven business. Our future is based on an unproven business plan with no historical facts to support projections and assumptions. We incorporated in October 2020 in anticipation of the Business Combination and had no operating history or revenues prior to their closing. We are faced with risks inherent in operating a new business, including difficulties often encountered in developing, producing and commercializing new technologies; developing the markets for our products and technologies; and attracting and retaining qualified management, sales and/or marketing and technical staff, in addition to the risks described below. We may need additional capital to fund our operations. We may require additional capital to fund our current operations and anticipated expansion of our business and to pursue targeted revenue opportunities. There is no assurance that additional capital to fund our operations can be raised. Additional capital may not be available, the terms of any such capital raising may be uncertain, and the terms of any prospective equity capital may not be acceptable. In addition, any future sale of equity securities would dilute the ownership and control of the then-current stockholders and could be at prices substantially below prices at which our shares currently trade or may trade. The inability to raise capital could require us to significantly curtail or terminate operations. We could lose our access to data from external sources, which could prevent us from providing our solutions. We depend upon data from external sources to create our information products. In general, we do not own the data that powers our information offerings. Our data sources could withdraw or increase the price for their data for a variety of reasons, and we could also become subject to legislative, judicial or contractual restrictions on the use of such data, in particular if such data are not collected by the third parties in a way that allows us to legally use and/or process the data. Additionally, the length of our licenses with our data suppliers and our ability to extend these licenses varies across suppliers, some of whom may offer similar products or services to certain categories of our customers and prospective customers. Our competitors could also enter into exclusive contracts with our data sources, which although atypical may preclude us from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restrict us in our use of such data, which would give our competitors an advantage. If a substantial number of data sources, or certain key sources, were to withdraw, limit or be unable to provide their data, or if we were to lose access to data due to government regulation or if the collection of data became uneconomical, our ability to provide our information solutions to our customers could be impacted, which could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may make additional acquisitions as a component of our growth strategy. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms, or we may be unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, which could disrupt our operations and adversely impact our business and operating results. A component of our growth strategy is to acquire complementary businesses in order to enhance the solutions we offer to our customers. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of complementary technologies, products, data sources and businesses as a component of our growth strategy. Acquisitions involve certain known and unknown risks that could cause our actual growth or operating results to differ from our expectations. For example, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or to consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms; we may not be able to obtain the necessary financing, on favorable terms or at all, to finance any or all of our potential acquisitions; and acquired technologies, products or businesses may not perform as we expect and we may fail to realize anticipated revenue and profits. In addition, our acquisition strategy may divert managements attention away from our existing business, resulting in the loss of key customers or employees, and expose us to unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, including responsibility as a successor for undisclosed or contingent liabilities of acquired businesses or assets. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to conduct due diligence on our potential targets effectively, for example, we may not identify problems at target companies or fail to recognize incompatibilities or other obstacles to successful integration. Our inability to successfully integrate future acquisitions could impede us from realizing all of the benefits of those acquisitions and could severely weaken our business operations. The integration process may disrupt our business and, if new technologies, products or businesses are not implemented effectively, may preclude the realization of the full benefits expected by us and could harm our results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of new technologies, products or businesses may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, liabilities and competitive responses. Further, even if the operations of an acquisition are integrated successfully, we may not realize the full benefits of the acquisition, including the synergies, cost savings or growth opportunities that we expect. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. Further, acquisitions may cause us to issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders ownership percentage, use a substantial portion of our cash resources, experience volatility in earnings due to changes in contingent consideration related to acquisition earn-out liability estimates or become subject to litigation. If we do not successfully develop and deploy new products and technologies to address the needs of our customers, our business and results of operations could suffer. Our success is based on our ability to design information products that enable the integration of data into a common operating environment to facilitate advanced data analysis, knowledge management and collaboration. We are also heavily reliant on our information technology infrastructure, processes and procedures and will devote significant resources to ensuring we have competitive informational technology systems. Information technology changes rapidly, however, and we may not be able to stay ahead of such advances. If we are unable to introduce new or upgraded products, services or technology that users and collaborators recognize as valuable, we may fail to generate additional engagement on our platforms, attract and retain customers or monetize the activity on our platforms. We have spent substantial amounts of time and money researching and developing new technologies and enhanced versions of existing features to meet customers and potential customers rapidly evolving needs and our efforts to develop new and upgraded products, services or technology will require us to continue to incur significant costs. We cannot guarantee current or prospective users and customers will respond favorably to new or improved products, services or technology. The introduction of new products and services by competitors or the development of entirely new technologies to replace existing offerings could make our platforms obsolete or adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulties with software development, design, or marketing that delay or prevent our development, introduction, or implementation of new platforms, features, or capabilities. Any delays could result in adverse publicity, loss of revenue or market acceptance, or claims by customers, any of which could harm our business. Moreover, the design and development of new platforms or new features and capabilities to existing platforms may require substantial investment, and there is no assurance that such investments will be successful. If customers do not widely adopt our new platforms, experiences, features, and capabilities, we may not be able to realize a return on our investment and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. New and existing platforms and changes to existing platforms could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: the failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of product functionality and to supply offerings that meet this demand in a timely fashion; product defects, errors or failures or our inability to satisfy customer service level requirements; negative publicity or negative private statements about the security, performance or effectiveness of our platforms or product enhancements; delays in releasing to the market new offerings or enhancements to existing offerings; the introduction or anticipated introduction of competing platforms or functionalities by competitors; the inability of our platforms or product enhancements to scale and perform to meet customer demands; and 13 Table of Contents receiving qualified or adverse opinions in connection with security or penetration testing, certifications or audits, such as those related to IT controls and security standards and frameworks or compliance. If we are not able to continue to identify challenges faced by our customers and develop, license or acquire new features and capabilities to our offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if such enhancements do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects may suffer and anticipated revenue growth may not be achieved. Our business and operations have been and may in the future be adversely affected by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic, and the various governmental, industry and consumer actions related thereto, had, and may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These effects have included, and may include in the future, a negative impact on the availability of our key personnel, temporary closures of our offices or the facilities of our business partners, customers, suppliers, third party service providers or other vendors, an increased risk of customer defaults or delays in payments or purchasing decisions and the interruption of domestic and global supply chains, distribution channels, liquidity and capital or financial markets. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may continue to experience material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition as a result of its global economic impact, including any recession that has occurred or may occur in the future. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. We depend on computing infrastructure operated by third parties to support some of our solutions and customers, and any errors, disruption, performance problems, or failure in their or our operational infrastructure could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The software, internal applications and systems underlying our products and services are inherently complex and may contain defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. The development, expansion, operation and maintenance of our technology and network infrastructure is expensive and complex and requires significant internal and external resources. If we do not successfully develop, expand, operate or maintain our technology and network infrastructure, or if we experience operational failures, our reputation could be harmed, and we could lose current and prospective customers and service providers, which could adversely impact the business, financial condition or results of operations. We rely on third parties for certain services made available to users of our platforms, which could limit our control over the quality of the user experience and our cost of providing services. Our ability to generate revenue will be affected by the amount of time it takes to complete and enhance our platform. Additionally, there are multiple third-party vendors and service providers that must continue to provide us access to their application programming interfaces and operating systems, and we will rely on cooperation from third parties to integrate with their systems. Should third-party vendors, service providers and collaborators not perform as expected, cooperate with us or deliver their work as planned, we may not be able to release our products and services in a timely manner. We utilize third-party software in our product and service offerings and expect to continue to do so. The correction of these errors and defects will be dependent on these third parties, so it may be difficult for us to correct them. Further, we cannot be certain that third-party licensors will continue to make their software available to us on acceptable terms, or invest the appropriate levels of resources in their software to maintain and enhance our capabilities or remain in business. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully manage our intellectual property and we may be subject to infringement claims. Part of our success will depend on our ability to protect our proprietary rights in the technologies used in our products. We will consider trade secrets, including confidential and unpatented technology, important to the maintenance of our competitive position. However, trade secrets and know-how are difficult to protect. Further, if any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent that competitor from using the technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position could be materially and adversely harmed. Additionally, if we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, our business could be harmed. There has been substantial litigation in internet and software-related industries regarding patent, trademark and copyrights and other intellectual property rights and, from time to time, third parties may claim infringement by us of their intellectual property rights. If we were found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of any third party, we could be subject to liabilities for such infringement, which could have a material adverse impact on our profitability. In addition, any such claims could distract management from conducting the business. Real or perceived errors, failures, defects or bugs in our platforms, products or services could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. Because we offer very complex platforms, products and services, undetected errors, defects, failures or bugs may occur, especially when platforms or capabilities are first introduced or when new versions or other product or infrastructure updates are released. These platforms are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, software products and equipment, and data source and network configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our platforms or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our platforms. The platforms often have different versions and updates based off of specific-state requirements. Despite testing, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new software or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. Errors can also delay the development or release of new platforms or capabilities or new versions of platforms, adversely affect our reputation and our customers willingness to buy our platforms, and adversely affect market acceptance or perception of these platforms. Many customers use these platforms, products and services in applications that are critical to their businesses or missions and may have a lower risk tolerance to defects in our platforms, products and services than to defects in other, less critical, software products. Any errors or delays in releasing new software or new versions of platforms, products and services or allegations of unsatisfactory performance or errors, defects or failures in released software could cause us to lose revenue or market share, increase our service costs, result in substantial costs in redesigning the software, result in the loss of significant customers, subject us to liability for damages and divert company resources from other tasks, any one of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our platforms could be perceived to be ineffective for a variety of reasons outside of our control. Hackers or other malicious parties could circumvent our or customers security measures, and customers may misuse our platforms resulting in a security breach or perceived product failure. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our platforms, products and services, or dissatisfaction with those services or outcomes, could result in customer terminations and/or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct any such errors, failures, or bugs. In a dynamic industry like ours, our success and growth depend on our ability to attract, recruit, retain and develop qualified employees. Our business functions at the intersection of rapidly changing technological, social, economic and regulatory developments that require a wide-ranging set of expertise and intellectual capital. To continue to successfully compete and grow, we must attract, recruit, develop and retain the necessary personnel who can provide the needed expertise across the entire spectrum of our intellectual capital needs. While we have a number of key personnel who have substantial experience with our operations, we must also develop our personnel to provide succession plans capable of maintaining continuity in the midst of the inevitable unpredictability of human capital. The market for qualified personnel is competitive, and we may not succeed in recruiting additional personnel or may fail to effectively replace current personnel who depart with qualified or effective successors. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our profitability. There can be no assurances that qualified employees will continue to be employed or that we will be able to attract and retain qualified personnel in the future. Failure to retain or attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not timely remediated, may adversely affect the accuracy and reliability of our financial statements and our reputation, business and stock price, as well as lead to a loss of investor confidence in us. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal control. Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), requires that we furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment is required to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. Our independent registered public accounting firm will not be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the later of the date we are deemed to be an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer, each as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or the date we are no longer an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012 (JOBS Act). If we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we may not detect errors on a timely basis and our financial statements may be materially misstated. As described under Item 9A.