Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information The following discussion of the Companys financial condition and results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes to those statements that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The following discussion includes forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties, including plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and those set forth under Cautionary Statement for Forward-Looking Information. Actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth under Item 1A. Risk Factors appearing in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, as filed with the SEC on April 11, 2025. The Company uses words such as anticipate, estimate, plan, project, continuing, ongoing, expect, believe, intend, may, will, should, could, and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. Overview Forian Inc. (the Company or Forian) was incorporated in Delaware on October 15, 2020 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Forian LLC (f/k/a Medical Outcomes Research Analytics, LLC) (MOR) for the purpose of effecting the business combination with Helix Technologies, Inc. (Helix). Forian provides a unique suite of data management capabilities and proprietary information and analytics solutions to optimize and measure operational, clinical and financial performance for customers within the healthcare and life sciences and financial services industries. On October 31, 2024, the Company entered into a Membership Interest Assignment Agreement, by and among Cowen Inc. (Cowen), IMcK Holdings LLC (Minority Seller and together with Cowen, the Sellers), Kyber Data Science, LLC (Kyber) and the Company, pursuant to which the Company acquired all outstanding equity interests of Kyber from the Sellers, effective October 31, 2024. The business combination with Kyber was accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805, with the Company deemed the accounting acquirer for financial reporting purposes. Financial Operations Overview The following discussion sets forth certain components of the Companys condensed consolidated statements of operations as well as factors that impact those items. Revenues Revenues are derived from fees for the Companys proprietary information products and services. The Company recognizes revenues from information products as performance obligations under customer contracts are satisfied. Sales for the three months ended March 31, 2025 by country as a percentage of total sales were: United States (93%), Australia (5%) and Great Britain/others (2%) compared to sales for the three months ended March 31, 2024 by country as a percentage of total sales which were: United States (87%), Australia (8%) and Canada (5%). 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues is generated from direct costs associated with the delivery of the Companys products and services to its customers. The cost of revenues relates primarily to labor costs, information licensing, hosting and infrastructure costs and client service team costs. On July 31, 2024, the Company was informed by one of its information vendors that effective December 31, 2024, the vendor will no longer include certain data within the information products it licenses to the Company. The vendor stated this was due to clarifications and updates to the licensing relationship between the vendor and one of its data suppliers. In February 2025, the vendor announced that it intended to exit the data licensing business by the end of 2026. The Company plans to license data from additional vendors in consideration of the above changes; however, there can be no assurance that the alternate sources of comparable data can be obtained, and if so, on terms and conditions substantially equivalent to those under the Companys previous agreement. As a result of this event, the Company is evaluating its rights under the contract and the impact of the vendors announced wind down on future obligations under the agreement. The Company reduced the expected period of benefit under the agreement effective with the vendors announcement. The resulting change in accounting estimate did not have a material impact on operating results for the three months ended March 31, 2025. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related expenses, subcontractor and third-party consulting fees and hosted infrastructure costs. The Company continues to focus research and development efforts on adding new features and applications to its product offerings. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense is primarily salaries and related expenses, including commissions, for sales, marketing and product management staff. Marketing program costs are also recorded as sales and marketing expense including advertising, market research and events (such as trade shows, corporate communications, brand building, etc.). The Company plans to continue investing in marketing and sales by expanding selling and marketing staff, building brand awareness, attracting new clients and sponsoring additional marketing events. The timing of these marketing events may affect marketing costs in any particular period. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include salaries, benefits and other costs of departments serving administrative functions, such as executives, finance and accounting and human resources. In addition, general and administrative expense includes non-personnel costs, such as professional fees, legal fees, accounting and finance advisory fees and other supporting corporate expenses not allocated to cost of revenues, product and development or sales and marketing. Litigation Settlements and Related Expenses Litigation settlements and related expenses result from the defense and settlement of legacy claims assumed in the Helix merger. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization relate to long lived assets used in the Companys business. Depreciation expense relates primarily to furniture and equipment and computers. 25 Table of Contents Results of Operations For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 The following table summarizes the results of operations for the periods indicated: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenues $ 7,056,116 $ 4,877,378 Costs and Expenses Cost of revenues 3,131,622 1,703,357 Research and development 606,237 389,889 Sales and marketing 1,382,727 1,055,141 General and administrative 3,279,094 3,283,489 Litigation settlements and related expenses 208,965 Depreciation and amortization 51,101 8,887 Operating loss $ (1,394,665 ) $ (1,772,350 ) Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenues Revenues for the for the three months ended March 31, 2025, were $7,056,116, which represented an increase of $2,178,738 compared to revenues of $4,877,378 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is primarily due to the impact of the acquisition of Kyber and organic growth in sales of the Companys information products. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $3,131,622, which represented an increase of $1,428,265 compared to cost of revenues of $1,703,357 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cost of revenues increased primarily due to the impact of the Kyber acquisition and higher information licensing expenses. As a result, gross profit as a percentage of revenues decreased to 56% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to 65% for the same period in 2024. Research and Development Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, were $606,237, which represented an increase of $216,348 compared to research and development expenses of $389,889 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is primarily due to the impact of the Kyber acquisition. 26 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, were $1,382,727, which represented an increase of $327,586 compared to sales and marketing expenses of $1,055,141 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase is due to the impact of the Kyber acquisition and increased salesperson compensation expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025, were $3,279,094, which represented a decrease of $4,395 compared to general and administrative expenses of 3,283,489 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease is primarily due to lower stock compensation expense, partially offset by increased salaries, other professional and credit loss expenses. Litigation Settlements and Related Expenses Litigation settlements and related expenses of $208,965 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 result from the defense and settlement of legacy claims assumed in the Helix merger, net of any insurance recoveries. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q the Company has provided a non-GAAP measure, which is defined as financial information that has not been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). The non-GAAP financial measure provided herein is earnings before interest, taxes, non-cash and other items (Adjusted EBITDA), which should be viewed as supplemental to, and not as an alternative for, net income or loss calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP (referred to below as net loss). Adjusted EBITDA is used by management as an additional measure of the Companys performance for purposes of business decision-making, including developing budgets, managing expenditures and evaluating potential acquisitions or divestitures. Period-to-period comparisons of Adjusted EBITDA help management identify additional trends in the Companys financial results that may not be shown solely by period-to-period comparisons of net loss. In addition, management may use Adjusted EBITDA in the incentive compensation programs applicable to some employees in order to evaluate the Companys performance. Management recognizes that Adjusted EBITDA has inherent limitations because of the excluded items, particularly those items that are recurring in nature. In order to compensate for those limitations, management also reviews the specific items that are excluded from Adjusted EBITDA, but included in net loss, as well as trends in those items contained in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Management believes that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors in their analysis of the Companys results for reasons similar to those believed by management. Additionally, Adjusted EBITDA helps facilitate investor understanding of decisions made by management in light of the performance metrics used in making those decisions. As more fully described below, management believes that providing Adjusted EBITDA, together with a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA, helps investors make comparisons between the Company and other companies that may have different capital structures, different effective income tax rates and tax attributes, different capitalized asset values and/or different forms of employee compensation. However, Adjusted EBITDA is not intended as a substitute for comparisons based on net loss. In making any comparisons to other companies, investors should be aware that companies use different non-GAAP measures to evaluate their financial performance. Investors should pay close attention to the specific definition being used and to the reconciliation between such measures and the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures provided by each company under applicable SEC rules. 27 Table of Contents The following is an explanation of the items excluded from Adjusted EBITDA but included in net loss: Depreciation and Amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense is a non-cash expense relating to capital expenditures and intangible assets arising from acquisitions that are expensed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related assets. The Company excludes depreciation and amortization expense from Adjusted EBITDA because management believes that (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of the business operations and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of new acquisitions and full amortization of previously acquired tangible and intangible assets. Accordingly, management believes that this exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance. Investors should note that the use of tangible and intangible assets contributed to revenue in the periods presented and will contribute to future revenue generation and should also note that such expense will recur in future periods. Stock-Based Compensation Expense. Stock-based compensation expense is a non-cash expense arising from the grant of stock-based awards to employees. Management believes that excluding the effect of stock-based compensation from Adjusted EBITDA assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons in the Companys operating performance because (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of business operations and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of grants of new stock-based awards, including grants in connection with acquisitions. Management believes that excluding stock-based compensation from Adjusted EBITDA assists management and investors in making meaningful comparisons between the Companys operating performance and the operating performance of other companies that may use different forms of employee compensation or different valuation methodologies for their stock-based compensation. Investors should note that stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to employees whose efforts contributed to the operating results in the periods presented and are expected to contribute to operating results in future periods. Investors should also note that such expenses will recur in the future. Interest Expense. Interest expense is associated with the convertible notes entered into on September 1, 2021 in the amount of $24,000,000 (the Notes). The Notes are due on September 1, 2025, and accrue interest at an annual rate of 3.5%. Management excludes interest expense from Adjusted EBITDA (i) because it is not directly attributable to the performance of business operations and, accordingly, its exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance and (ii) to assist management and investors in making comparisons to companies with different capital structures. Investors should note that interest expense associated with the Notes will recur in future periods. Interest and Investment Income. Interest andInvestment income is associated with the level of marketable debt securities and other interest-bearing accounts in which the Company invests. Interest and investment income can vary over time due to changes in interest rates and level of investments. Management excludes interest and investment income from Adjusted EBITDA (i) because these items are not directly attributable to the performance of business operations and, accordingly, their exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance and (ii) to assist management and investors in making comparisons to companies with different capital structures. Investors should note that interest and investment income will recur in future periods. Other Items. The Company engages in other activities and transactions that can impact net loss. In the periods reported, these other items included (i) gain on sale of investment relating to the sale of a minority equity interest and (ii) gain on debt redemption which relates to a gain on the early retirement of a portion of the Notes (for further discussion, refer to Note 11 Convertible Notes to the financial statements). Management excludes these other items from Adjusted EBITDA because management believes these activities or transactions are not directly attributable to the performance of business operations and, accordingly, their exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance. Investors should note that some of these other items may recur in future periods. 28 Table of Contents Litigation related expenses.Management excludes litigation expenses that are extraordinary in nature and are unrelated to the Companys day-to-day business operations. The nature of these expenses is primarily related to direct and incremental third-party legal expenses and settlement expenses, net of any insurance recoveries, associated with such litigation, which pertains to entities acquired in the Helix merger, see Item 1. Legal Proceedings and Note 16 Commitments and Contingencies to the financial statements for further information. Income tax (benefit) expense. Management excludes the income tax (benefit) expense from Adjusted EBITDA (i) because management believes that the income tax (benefit) expense is not directly attributable to the underlying performance of business operations and, accordingly, its exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance and (ii) to assist management and investors in making comparisons to companies with different tax attributes. Limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures There are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures provided by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgment by management about which items are adjusted to calculate non-GAAP financial measures. Management compensates for these limitations by analyzing current and future results on a U.S. GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing U.S. GAAP measures in the Companys public disclosures. Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Management encourages investors and others to review the Companys financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate the business and to view non-GAAP financial measures in conjunction with the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures. 29 Table of Contents The following table reconciles the specific items excluded from U.S. GAAP metrics in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA for the periods shown below: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue $ 7,056,116 $ 4,877,378 Net loss (1,125,862 ) (1,212,615 ) Depreciation and amortization 51,101 8,887 Stock based compensation expense 1,292,786 1,658,915 Change in fair value of warrant liability (113 ) Interest and investment income (328,848 ) (675,157 ) Interest expense 52,678 198,963 Gain on sale of investment (48,612 ) Gain on debt redemption (137,356 ) Litigation related expenses 208,965 Income tax expense 7,367 102,540 Adjusted EBITDA $ (50,778 ) $ 104,417 Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2025, was $(50,778) compared to $104,417 three months ended March 31, 2024, a decrease of $155,195. The decrease is primarily due to higher cost of revenues and other operating expenses, partially offset by other increases in revenues discussed above. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, the Companys operations have been financed primarily from cash flow from operating activities, cash proceeds received from the sale of investments, equity issuances and the issuance of the Notes. On February 10, 2023, the Company sold BioTrack for $30,000,000 consisting of $20,000,000 in cash at closing and twelve unconditional monthly payments aggregating $10,000,000 thereafter. On July 21, 2023, the Company sold a minority equity interest in a customer for cash proceeds of $5,805,858 and future contingent earnout payments aggregating up to $3,600,000 in 2025 and 2026. These transactions have provided additional cash and liquidity to the Company. During 2024, the Company redeemed $18,881,466 in outstanding principal and interest on its Notes. As of March 31, 2025, the Companys balance of cash and marketable securities aggregated $35,666,432 and outstanding principal and accrued interest on the Notes, due September 1, 2025, aggregated $6,750,326. The Company expects to continue to fund its operations and potential future acquisitions through a combination of cash flow generated from operating activities, available cash and marketable securities, debt financing and/or additional equity issuances. 30 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes selected information about sources and uses of cash and cash equivalents for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 448,180 $ (2,208,070 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 838,125 (1,774,425 ) Net cash used in financing activities (172,295 ) (1,031,363 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,114,010 $ (5,013,858 ) Net Cash Provided by (Used In) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $448,180 increased by $2,656,250 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to cash used in operating activities of $2,208,070 three months ended March 31, 2024. This primarily is the result of changes in working capital accounts related to the timing of cash flows from operations. Net Cash Provided by (Used In) By Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities of $838,125 increased by $2,612,550 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to cash used in investing activities of $1,774,425 three months ended March 31, 2024. This is primarily the result of changes in net additions to marketable securities, partially offset by cash received from the sale of discontinued operation during 2024. Net Cash Used In Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $172,295 for the three months ended March 31, 2025 decreased by $859,068 compared to cash used in financing activities of $1,031,363 three months ended March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily due to changes in tax payments for vested restricted stock units and redemptions of certain of the Notes. Critical Accounting Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements that have been prepared in accordance with US GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, the Company evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenues, stock-based compensation, income taxes, contingencies and litigation. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The Company believes the following critical accounting estimates used in the preparation of its condensed consolidated financial statements affect its more significant judgments and estimates. 31 Table of Contents Revenue The Company utilizes judgement to determine whether performance obligations in a contract are distinct and whether they are delivered at a point in time or over time. Judgement is also necessary to assess revenue recognized under variable revenue arrangements. Share-Based Payments Under the fair value recognition provision, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The Company makes certain assumptions in order to value and expense its various share-based payment awards. Income Taxes The Company utilizes judgement and estimates in assessing the need for the valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carry-forwards. In the event the Company were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination was made. Business Combinations The Company allocates the fair value of the consideration transferred to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including trademarks andcustomer relationships based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Any excess over the consideration transferred is recorded as gain on bargain purchase. The purchase price allocation requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date, with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. Although the Company believes the assumptions and estimates it has made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets the Company has acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to: future expected cash flows from sales, maintenance agreements, and acquired developed technologies; the acquired companys trade name and customer relationships as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and customer relationships will continue to be used in the Companys product portfolio; expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable software and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and discount rates used to determine the present value of estimated future cash flows. These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that the Company has made. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and, if such events occur, the Company may be required to recognize a loss in the condensed consolidated statement of operations due to an overestimation of the value ascribed to an acquired asset or an increase in the amounts recorded for assumed liabilities. 32 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2023, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures (ASU 2023-09). ASU 2023-09 requires additional disclosures related to rate reconciliation, income taxes paid and other disclosures. Under ASU 2023-09, for each annual period presented, public entities are required to (1) disclose specific categories in the tabular rate reconciliation and (2) provide additional information for reconciling items that meet a quantitative threshold. In addition, ASU 2023-09 requires all reporting entities to disclose on an annual basis the amount of income taxes paid disaggregated by federal, state and foreign taxes as well as the amount of income taxes paid by individual jurisdiction. ASU 2023-09 is effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024 and can be applied on a prospective basis with an option to apply the standard retrospectively. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2023-09 on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In November 2024, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2024-03, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Topic 220): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses (ASU 2024-03). ASU 2024-03 requires additional disclosure of certain amounts included in the expense captions presented on the condensed consolidated statement of operations as well as disclosures about selling expenses. The ASU is effective on a prospective basis, with the option for retrospective application, for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2026 and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2027. Early adoption is permitted for annual financial statements that have not yet been issued. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2024-03 on its condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements The Company has implemented all new applicable accounting pronouncements that are in effect. These pronouncements did not have any material impact on the financial statements. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, reduce certain reporting requirements for an emerging growth company. As an emerging growth company, the Company is electing to take advantage of the extended transition period afforded by the JOBS Act for the implementation of new or revised accounting standards. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, the Company is not required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on its system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the chief executive officers compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply until the fifth anniversary of the business combination with Helix or until the Company no longer meets the requirements for being an emerging growth company, whichever occurs first.