Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenues - Revenues by Geographic Region and Note 14 - Operating Segments and Geographic Information of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, that are included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Backlog We manufacture our products based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders with written authorizations and shipment dates within 12 months. Backlog also includes revenue for existing product service agreements to be earned within the next 12 months. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to 5 shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules or a reduction in backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Manufacturing Our probe cards are designed for each of our customers' unique wafer design, by modifying and adapting our product architectures to meet an individual customers design layout and test requirements. Our proprietary manufacturing processes for our probe cards include: a complex interconnection system-level design process; a front-end process, which may include wire bonding, photolithography, plating and metallurgical processes, dry and electro-deposition, pick and place assembly; and a back-end process, which includes general assembly and test. Critical steps in our manufacturing process are performed in a variety of clean room environments, including as stringent as a Class 100 environment, depending on the requirements of the specific manufacturing processes. We depend on suppliers for some critical components of our manufacturing processes, including ceramic substrates and complex printed circuit boards, and for other materials used in our manufacturing processes. We also rely on suppliers to provide certain contact elements and interconnects incorporated into our products. Some of these components and materials are supplied by a single vendor, and some are subject to certain minimum order quantities. Generally, we rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, which subjects us to risks, including price increases, manufacturing capacity constraints issues and component shortages. We continually assess and evaluate alternative sources of supply for all components and materials. Our primary manufacturing facilities are located in Livermore, San Jose and Carlsbad, California, United States. We also perform certain probe card manufacturing operations in our facilities in Suzhou, China and Yokohama, Japan. We maintain repair and service capabilities in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California, United States; Dresden, Germany; Bundang, South Korea; Yokohama City and Hiroshima, Japan; Suzhou, China; Hsinchu, Taiwan; and Singapore. Research, Development and Engineering The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We believe that our continued commitment to research and development and our timely introduction of new and enhanced products and technologies are integral to maintaining and enhancing our competitive position. We allocate significant resources to these efforts, and prioritize those resources to prepare for our customers next generation wafer test challenges. We also increasingly seek to deploy our resources to solve fundamental challenges that are both common to, and provide competitive advantage across, our SoC, DRAM, and Flash Memory product offerings and roadmaps. Research and development expenses were $44.2 million for fiscal 2015 , $42.7 million for fiscal 2014 and $42.1 million for fiscal 2013 . Sales and Marketing We sell our products worldwide through a global direct sales force. Our sales and marketing staff, located in the United States, China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan, work closely with customers in the effort to understand their businesses, anticipate trends and define products that will provide significant technical and economic advantages to our customers. We utilize a highly skilled team of application and customer support engineers that support our customers as they integrate our products into their manufacturing processes. Through these customer relationships, we seek to develop a close understanding of customer and product requirements to align our product capabilities and capacities with our customers' roadmaps and production ramps. Environmental Matters We are subject to U.S. Federal, State, local, and foreign governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the environmental laws and regulations that apply to us, including those of the California Department of Toxic Substances Control, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District, the City of Livermore Water Resources Division, County of Santa Clara Department of Environmental Health, County of San Diego Hazardous Materials Division and Encino Water District, and the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health. We did not receive any notices of violations of environmental laws and regulations in fiscal 2015 , 2014 or 2013 . In the future, we may 6 receive notices of violations of environmental regulations, or otherwise learn of such violations. Environmental contamination or violations may negatively impact our business. We are also subject to SEC rules that will require diligence, disclosure and reporting on whether certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, used in our products originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We have implemented a program in the effort to comply with these new rules, which could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals we use in our products. We will not only incur costs in relation to our compliance with such disclosure requirements, but may also face difficulties in satisfying any of our customers who require that all of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. Competition The highly competitive probe card market comprises many domestic and foreign companies, and has historically been fragmented with many local suppliers servicing individual customers in often differentiated applications. Our current and potential competitors in the probe card market include AMST Co., Ltd., Cascade Microtech, Inc., Feinmetall GmbH, Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, Korea Instrument Co., Ltd., M2N Co., Ltd., Microfriend Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., MPI Corporation, NHK Spring Co., Ltd., Soulbrain Engineering, SV Probe, Inc., Synergie CAD, Technoprobe, TSE Co., Ltd. and WILL-Technology Co., Ltd., among others. In addition to the ability to address probe card performance and capability requirements in differing applications, the primary competitive factors in the industry in which we compete include product quality and reliability, price, total cost of ownership, design and manufacturing lead times, service capability, geographic proximity, field applications support and timeliness of delivery. Some of our competitors are also suppliers of other types of test equipment or other semiconductor equipment and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect our competitors may enhance their current products and may introduce new products that will be competitive with our probe cards. In addition, it is possible that new competitors, including test equipment manufacturers, may offer new technologies that reduce the value of our probe cards. Additionally, semiconductor manufacturers may implement chip designs that include built-in self-test, or BIST, capabilities or similar functions or methodologies that increase test throughput and reduce test content, thereby eliminating some or all of our current product advantages. Our ability to compete favorably may also be adversely affected by delays in qualification of our new products, very short design and manufacturing lead time requirements, long-standing relationships between our competitors and certain semiconductor manufacturers, and semiconductor manufacturer test strategies that include low performance semiconductor testers and less complex probe cards. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to continue to innovate and invest in research and development to meet the testing requirements of our customers, to maintain and protect our proprietary technology, and to conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. We have filed actions to enforce those rights against third parties, and may pursue such actions in the future. We have generated, and continue to generate and maintain, patents and other intellectual property rights covering innovations that are intended to create a competitive advantage, and to support the protection of our investments in research and development. We believe that we possess one of the most substantial patent portfolios relevant to probe card products. Many of our issued patents cover features of our products, including inventions related to interconnect technologies, probe cards and testing, wafer-level packaging and test, sockets and assemblies, and microchips. Although we believe that our patents and other intellectual property rights have significant value, we do not believe that maintaining or growing our business is materially dependent on any single patent. Due to the rapid pace of innovation within the markets that we serve, it is possible that our protection through patents may be less important than factors such as our technological expertise, continuing development of new products and technologies, protection of trade secrets, market penetration, customer relationships, and our ability to provide comprehensive support and service to customers worldwide. No assurance can be given that any patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights granted thereunder will provide us with a sustained competitive advantage. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to protect our technology, or that competitors will not be able to independently develop similar or functionally competitive technologies, design around our patents, or attempt to manufacture and sell infringing products in countries that do not strongly enforce intellectual property rights. 7 Employees As of December 26, 2015 , we had 958 regular full-time employees, including 587 in operations, 194 in research and development, 110 in sales and marketing and 67 in general and administrative functions. By region, 705 of our employees were in North America, 63 in China, 60 in Singapore, 53 in South Korea, 34 in Taiwan, 34 in Japan and 9 in Europe. No employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that, overall, our relations with our employees are good. Available Information We maintain a website at http://www.formfactor.com . We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United State Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained at the site. The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports and other information regarding issuers, such as FormFactor, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov . Directors and Executive Officers Directors. The names of the members of our board of directors, their ages as of December 26, 2015 , and their current occupations are set forth below. Name of Director Age Current Occupation Edward Rogas, Jr. 75 Director of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation Lothar Maier 60 Chief Executive Officer and Director of Linear Technology Corporation Michael D. Slessor 46 Chief Executive Officer and Director of FormFactor, Inc. Michael W. Zellner 60 Director of FormFactor, Inc. Kelley Steven-Waiss (1) 46 Director of FormFactor, Inc. Richard DeLateur 57 Director of FormFactor, Inc. Thomas St. Dennis 62 Executive Chairman of FormFactor, Inc. (1) Ms. Steven-Waiss was appointed to the Company's Board in August 2015. Edward Rogas, Jr. has served as a Director since October 2010. Mr. Rogas served as a Director of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation until April 2015, Vignani Technologies Pvt Ltd until February 2014 and Photon Dynamics, Inc., from May 2006 to October 2008. Mr. Rogas held management positions at Teradyne, Inc. for over 29 years, including serving as Senior Vice President from 2000 through 2005. Mr. Rogas holds an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School and a B.S. from the United States Naval Academy. Lothar Maier has served as a Director since November 2006. Mr. Maier has served as the Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of directors of Linear Technology Corporation (Nasdaq: LLTC), a supplier of high performance analog integrated circuits since January 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Maier served as Linear Technology's Chief Operating Officer from April 1999 to December 2004. Before joining Linear Technology, Mr. Maier held various management positions at Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, a provider of high-performance, mixed-signal, programmable solutions, from 1983 to 1999, reaching the level of Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations. Mr. Maier holds a B.S. in chemical engineering from the University of California at Berkeley. Michael Slessor has served as a Director since October 2013. Dr. Slessor became our Chief Executive Officer on December 28, 2014. Dr. Slessor served as our President from October 2013 to December 27, 2014, and as Senior Vice President and General Manager, MicroProbe Product Group from October 2012 to October 2013. Before joining FormFactor, Dr. Slessor was President and Chief Executive Officer of MicroProbe from July 2008 through the October 2012 closing of FormFactor's acquisition of MicroProbe. Prior to joining MicroProbe, he held various management, product-marketing, and applications-engineering positions in the semiconductor industry, primarily with KLA-Tencor. Dr. Slessor received his Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Physics from the California Institute of Technology and his B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics from the University of British Columbia. 8 Michael W. Zellner has served as a Director since April 2011. Mr. Zellner served as Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cyan, Inc. (NYSE: CYNI) from March 2013 through March 2014. He was Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of PMC-Sierra, Inc. (Nasdaq: PMCS) from March 2007 to November 2012. Prior to joining PMC-Sierra, Mr. Zellner was Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer at Wind River Systems, Inc., a device software solutions provider to the electronics industry. Mr. Zellner attended the Stanford Executive Program at the Stanford Graduate School of Business as well as the MBA and BBA accounting program at Florida Atlantic University. Kelley Steven-Waiss has served as a Director since August 2015. Ms. Waiss has served as the Executive Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer of Extreme Networks, Inc., a software and services-led networking solutions company since March 2014. Prior to that, Ms. Waiss served as the Vice President of Worldwide Human Resources for Integrated Device Technology, Inc., a provider of mixed-signal semiconductor solutions from 2009-2012, and prior to that, as the VP of Worldwide Human Resources for PMC-Sierra, Inc., a provider of semiconductor and systems solutions. Ms. Waiss also serves on the board of directors of ALean, a Silicon Valley based educational non-profit. She holds an M.A. in human resources and organization development from the University of San Francisco and a B.A. in journalism from the University of Arizona. Richard DeLateur has served as a Director since May 2011, and as our Lead Independent Director since May 2014. Mr. DeLateur served as Chief Financial Officer of FormFactor, Inc. from May 2010 to May 2011. Mr. DeLateur is a 20-year veteran of Intel's finance team, where he held various positions, including the role of Vice President and Group Controller of Worldwide Technology and Manufacturing. Mr. DeLateur more recently served as Chief Financial Officer at the private companies Fluidigm Corporation and Topsin Corporation. Mr. DeLateur had also served as a Director at Numonyx Corp., a leading manufacturer of Flash memory, which is now part of Micron Technology, Inc. Mr. DeLateur holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of California, Davis and was awarded his Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) certification in 1999. Thomas St. Dennis has served as a Director since September 2010, when he joined our company, and as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors since October 23, 2013, and became Chairman of the Board of Directors in February 2016. Mr. St. Dennis served as our Chief Executive Officer from September 2010 through December 27, 2014. Mr. St. Dennis also currently serves as a director on the Board of Axcelis Technologies, Inc. since May 2015. Mr. St. Dennis previously held various positions at Applied Materials, Inc. from 1992 to 1999 and again from 2005 to 2009. His last at Applied Materials, Inc. was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Silicon Systems Group. He also worked at Novellus Systems, Inc. as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing from 2003 to 2005. From 1999 to 2003 Mr. St. Dennis was President and CEO of Wind River Systems, Inc. Mr. St. Dennis currently also sits on the Board of Mattson Technology, Inc. Mr. St. Dennis holds a B.S. in Physics and a M.S. in Physics, both from UCLA. Executive Officers. Our executive officers, their ages as of December 26, 2015 , and their positions with our company are set forth below. Name Age Position Thomas St. Dennis 62 Executive Chairman Michael M. Ludwig 54 Chief Financial Officer Michael D. Slessor 46 Chief Executive Officer and Director Michael M. Ludwig has served as our Chief Financial Officer since May 2011. Mr. Ludwig also served as our Vice President, Finance from December 2009 to May 2011, was a consultant to our company from February 2009 to December 2009, and served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller from April 2001 to April 2007. Mr. Ludwig has also held senior level finance and accounting positions at Force 10 Networks, Inc., a division of Dell Inc., that builds and secures high performance networks, and at divisions of Tyco Electronics and Beckman Coulter. Mr. Ludwig holds a B.S. in accounting from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona. Cascade Microtech Acquisition On February 3, 2016, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger under which we agreed to acquire Cascade Microtech through the merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with and into Cascade Microtech. Subject to the terms of the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of Cascade Microtech common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive (a) $16.00 in cash, without interest, and (b) 0.6534 shares of FormFactor common stock. Cascade Microtech is an Oregon corporation that designs, develops, manufactures and markets advanced wafer probing, thermal and reliability solutions for the electrical measurement and testing of high performance semiconductor devices. 9 Subject to the terms of the merger agreement, at the effective time of the merger, all of the outstanding and vested equity awards of Cascade Microtech will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive an amount in cash in respect of the merger consideration the shares of Cascade Microtech common stock underlying the awards would have received, and all of the outstanding and unvested equity awards of Cascade Microtech will be assumed on substantially the same terms, except that the number of shares of our common stock that will underlie the assumed award and the exercise price of any assumed option will be determined pursuant to a formula intended to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award. Completion of the merger is subject to customary closing conditions, including approval by Cascade Microtechs shareholders and expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, among others, and therefore has not been reflected in the financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There is no financing condition to our obligations under the merger agreement. We expect the merger to be completed in mid-2016. To finance a portion of the consideration for the proposed merger, we entered into a commitment letter with certain lenders to provide a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate amount of $150 million. The funding of the term loan facility is subject to certain conditions, including the execution of definitive financing documentation, the consummation of the merger in accordance with the merger agreement, the absence of a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the merger agreement), a minimum liquidity condition and other customary closing conditions. The above description of the merger agreement and the proposed merger is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the merger agreement included as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on February 9, 2016. Item 1A: Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating FormFactor and our business. If any of the identified risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about, or that we currently believe to be sufficiently important to describe here may also impair our business operations or the trading price of our common stock. A delay in qualifying next generation products could result in higher development costs and loss of market share, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may suffer from delays in qualifying our next-generation products at our customers. In 2013, we increased our activities and spending on the development of a new NAND Flash probe card architecture, which is incorporated into our Vector NAND Flash memory probe card. In 2015, we successfully qualified our Vector probe card at two customers. If we are not able to continue to successfully qualify our Vector product at other NAND Flash memory customers, or if we are not able to realize material revenues from sales of the Vector probe card in the future, it could negatively impact our revenues and margins and harm our business. We continue to invest in research and development activities around new product technologies and architectures. In 2015, we introduced new vertical MEMS products for sub-100um pitch Copper pillar probing and wirebond pads probing. If we are unable to qualify and successfully introduce products incorporating new product technologies and architectures, it may negatively impact our business. We have announced a proposed acquisition and may make additional acquisitions and investments in the future, which could put a strain on our resources, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders and adversely affect our financial results. On February 4, 2016, we announced our proposed acquisition of Cascade Microtech, which is expected to close in mid-2016. Our proposed acquisition of Cascade Microtech will subject us to a number of risks and uncertainties, including that: the process of integrating Cascade Microtechs business, additional lines of products or technologies into our company could put a strain on our resources, be expensive and time consuming, substantially reduce our cash reserves, cause delays in product delivery and might not be successful; management's attention may be diverted from other business concerns and our business may be exposed to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets; we might lose key Cascade Microtech employees during or after the integration process; 10 we might not be successful in integrating Cascade Microtechs business, products or technologies, and might not achieve the revenues and cost benefits we anticipate, even if Cascade Microtech is integrated; our purchase of Cascade Microtech may require additional investment that we do not currently anticipate; customers of Cascade Microtech or us may become dissatisfied, especially if we experience performance problems creating, maintaining, distributing or otherwise with Cascade Microtechs products; we will issue new equity securities in connection with a transaction as part of the consideration paid to Cascade Microtechs shareholders which will result in dilution to our existing stockholders; we will finance a portion of the consideration to be paid to Cascade shareholders in connection with the merger through a new senior secured term loan facility for $150 million, which will contain restrictive debt covenants; we may assume contingent liabilities, experience possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or encounter other unanticipated events or circumstances upon completion of the acquisition of Cascade Microtech, any of which could harm our business; or we will have less cash available for other purposes, including for use in acquisitions of other technologies or businesses. In addition to our proposed acquisition of Cascade Microtech, we may in the future make other acquisitions or investments, which may subject us to similar risks. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our company could put a strain on our resources, could be expensive and time consuming, could substantially reduce our cash reserves, could cause delays in product delivery and might not be successful. Future acquisitions and investments could divert management's attention from other business concerns and expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. We might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. Investments that we make may not result in a return consistent with our projections upon which such investments are made, or may require additional investment that we did not originally anticipate. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt and restrictive debt covenants, contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of customers, and we could continue to experience significant declines in our revenues if any major customer cancels, reduces, delays a purchase of, or does not place a projected order for our products, or does not pay us, or delays or extends payment for our products past their original due dates. A relatively small number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenues. Four customers represented 60% of total revenues in fiscal 2015 , 3 customers represented 52% of total revenues in fiscal 2014 and 3 customers represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2013 . In fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , our ten largest customers accounted for 78% , 80% and 75% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. In the future, the loss of any of these customers, or cancellation, reduction or deferral of even a small number of purchases of our products by these customers could significantly reduce our revenues. Cancellations, reductions or deferrals could result from another downturn in the semiconductor industry, or from manufacturing delays, quality or reliability issues with our products, or from interruptions to our customers' operations due to fire, natural disasters or other events. Furthermore, because our probe cards are custom products designed for our customers' unique wafer designs, any cancellations, reductions or delays can result in significant, non-recoverable costs. In some situations, our customers might be able to cancel or reduce orders without a significant penalty. Our customers could also fail to pay all or part of an invoice for our products. If a customer fails to pay us or delays payment for our products, we may be unable to recognize revenue, our financial condition and liquidity could be adversely impacted and we may incur additional charges for uncollectable customer receivable. It is also possible that if we make the decision to initiate legal proceedings against customers to seek payment of outstanding receivables, it will negatively impact a customer relationship and result in lost revenues in the future. As happened with our customer ProMos Technologies, customers with financial difficulties may be forced to materially reduce or discontinue operations, file for bankruptcy or other relief, or 11 may be acquired by one of our other customers, any of which would further reduce our customer base and/or result in the loss of revenues. Changes in customers' test strategies, equipment and processes could cause us to lose revenues. The demand for probe cards depends in large part upon the number of semiconductor designs, the pace of technology and architecture transitions in chip designs and overall semiconductor unit volume. The time it takes to test a wafer depends upon the number of devices being tested, the complexity of these devices, the test software program and the test equipment itself. As test programs become increasingly effective and test throughput increases, the number of probe cards required to test a given volume of devices declines. Therefore, advances in the test process could cause us to lose sales. Further, many semiconductor manufacturers are implementing chip designs featuring built-in-self-test, or BIST, capabilities or similar "design for testability", or DFT, functions or methodologies that increase test throughput and reduce the cost of test. These efforts include strategies to reduce the technical requirements on test equipment, or to improve data about device performance early in the manufacturing process, or to test the device later in the manufacturing process for quality assurance purposes. In some cases, BIST or DFT can create opportunities for our technologies. In other cases, BIST or DFT can reduce requirements for wafer-level test and reduce our opportunities. Although we seek to work with our customers to show ways that our technologies can be applied together with BIST and DFT approaches to create opportunities to further reduce the cost of test, the overall impact of BIST and DFT technologies could slow the migration to wafer level testing and adversely affect our revenues. Similar results could occur if new chip designs are implemented which we are unable to test efficiently, or if semiconductor manufacturers reduce generally the amount or degree of wafer test they perform. We incur significant research and development expenses in conjunction with the introduction of new product architectures and platforms. The introduction and adoption of new test equipment platforms can impact probe card requirements and/or demand, which could harm our revenues. Additionally, because our customers require both test equipment and probe cards, a delay or disruption in the introduction of new test equipment platforms could negatively affect our growth. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely impact our sales in the future, and as a result we have experienced and may continue to experience reduced revenues and operating results. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. The global economic and semiconductor downturns have caused and may in the future cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the development and manufacture of new semiconductors, the rate at which semiconductor manufacturers make transitions to smaller nanometer technology nodes and implement tooling cycles, the volume of production by semiconductor manufacturers and the overall financial strength of our customers, which, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products, such as servers, personal computers, automobiles and cell phones, that use semiconductors. During industry downturns, semiconductor manufacturers generally sharply curtail their spending, including their equipment spending, defer their adoption of emerging technologies and historically have lowered their spending disproportionately more than the decline in their revenues. This is particularly true when there is a point during an industry cycle in which the semiconductor manufacturers' costs related to semiconductor devices approach or exceed the sales price of the devices. As a result, we would experience reduced revenues due to the decreased demand for our probe cards by our semiconductor manufacturer customers. Accordingly, if we do not adjust our levels of manufacturing and human resources or manage our costs and deliveries from suppliers in response to lower spending by semiconductor manufacturers, our gross margin may decline and cause us to experience further operating losses. Changes in customers' product roadmaps and the timelines associated with those roadmaps could negatively impact our product development effort and new product introductions, which could in turn, cause us to lose revenues. The demand for probe cards depends in large part upon the demand for semiconductor devices and our customers' product roadmaps. For example, the DRAM market was impacted negatively in fiscal 2013 as secular changes in the personal computer markets significantly lowered demand for commodity DRAM. We may be required to make changes to our operational or R&D activities to reduce the breadth of our investments in certain of our products. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we suspended development activities specific to our next generation Matrix platform and consolidated our technologies and development to extend the capabilities of the then-current Matrix platform. If this consolidation does not continue to be successful, or does not extend the capabilities of our products as anticipated, or if changes to our operational or R&D activities impact our ability to introduce competitive products in the future, we may lose sales and our financial results will be negatively impacted. 12 The markets in which we participate are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We are experiencing increased competition in the probe card market and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition has resulted in, and in the future is likely to result in, price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share. Competitors might introduce new competitive products for the same markets that our products currently serve. These products may have better performance, lower prices and/or broader acceptance than our products. Competitive products may not have better performance, lower prices and/or broader acceptance than our products, but may be able to meet shorter delivery times required by customers and result in the loss of revenue for us. In addition, for products such as probe cards, semiconductor manufacturers typically qualify more than one source to avoid dependence on a single source of supply. As a result, our customers would likely purchase products from our competitors. Current or potential competitors include AMST Co., Ltd., Cascade Microtech, Inc., Feinmetall GmbH, Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, Korea Instrument Co., Ltd., M2N Co., Ltd., Microfriend Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., MPI Corporation, NHK Spring Co., Ltd., Soulbrain Engineering, SV Probe, Inc., Synergie CAD, Technoprobe, TSE Co., Ltd. and WILL-Technology Co., Ltd., among others. Many of our current or potential competitors have larger customer bases, more established customer relationships or greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they might be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Some of our competitors also supply other types of test equipment. Those competitors that offer both advanced probe cards and needle probe cards might have strong, existing relationships with our existing customers or with potential customers. It is possible that one or more of our competitors may be able to increase their sales to mutual customers, resulting in a loss of revenue share for us. It is further possible that existing or new competitors, including test equipment manufacturers, may offer new technologies that reduce the value of our probe cards. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully in our markets and harm our operating results. If we choose not to protect our proprietary rights or fail in our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Unauthorized parties might attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Others might independently develop similar or competing technologies or methods or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries in which we or our customers do business do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, our proprietary rights could be compromised, our competitors might offer products similar to ours and we might not be able to compete successfully. We also cannot assure that: our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate; patents will be issued from our pending or future applications; our existing or future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us; our patents or other intellectual property will not be invalidated, circumvented or successfully challenged in the United States or foreign countries; or others will not misappropriate our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property, or attempt to manufacture and sell infringing products in countries that do not strongly enforce intellectual property rights. We spent and may be required to spend in the future, significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. In certain cases, our competitors have initiated re-examination proceedings in the USPTO and invalidity proceedings in foreign patent offices against certain of our patents. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, and whether initiated by us or by a third party, could result in significant and possibly material expense to us and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel. In addition, while patents are territorial and a ruling on a certain given patent does not necessarily impact the validity or enforceability of a corresponding or related patent in a different country, an adverse ruling in one country might negatively impact our ability to enforce the corresponding or related patent in other countries. Certain of our customer contracts contain provisions that require us to defend and/or indemnify our customers for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also negatively impact our ability to license certain of our technologies and methods to others, and result in 13 our competitors being allowed to sell products with, or add to their products, features and benefits contained in our products, thereby reducing our competitive advantages over these competing products. If we do not innovate and keep pace with technological developments in the semiconductor industry, our products might not be competitive and our revenues and operating results could suffer. We must continue to innovate and to invest in research and development to improve our competitive position and to meet the testing requirements of our customers. Our future growth depends, in significant part, upon our ability to work effectively with and anticipate the testing needs of our customers and to develop and support new products and product enhancements to meet these needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our customers' testing needs are becoming more challenging as the semiconductor industry continues to experience rapid technological change driven by the demand for complex circuits that are shrinking in size, are increasing in speed and functionality and also becoming less expensive to produce. Examples of trends driving demand for technological research and development include semiconductor manufacturers' transition to 20 nanometer DRAM technology node, Flash and SoC fabrication process nodes, transition to higher gigabit density memory and lower-power multi-core processors, and rapid adoption of advanced IC packaging types, such as wafer-level packaging, Flipchip devices, devices incorporating Copper Pillar packaging, and Through-Silicon-Via (TSV) technologies. Our customers expect that they will be able to integrate our probe cards into any manufacturing process as soon as they are installed. Therefore, to meet these expectations and remain competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements with improved features. We may also work collaboratively with one or more third parties in the development of new technologies or in improvements to our existing technologies. It is possible that these collaborations may be delayed, or even ultimately prove unsuccessful, by matters outside of our control, such as the financial condition of the third party. It is possible that our internal development efforts and engagements with third parties regarding the development of manufacturing equipment having similar functionality may have a lengthy development and ramp up time and negatively impact our ability to complete new products and realize revenue from those products. Successful product design, development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: design innovative and performance-enhancing product architectures, technologies and features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; in some cases engage with third parties who have particular expertise in order to complete one or more aspects of the design and manufacturing process; qualify with the customer(s) the new product, or an existing product incorporating new technology; transition our products to new manufacturing technologies; offer our products for sale at competitive price levels while maintaining our gross-margins within our financial model; identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; maintain effective marketing strategies; respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. Not only do we need the technical expertise to implement the changes necessary to keep our technologies current, but we must also rely heavily on the judgment of our management to anticipate future market trends. If we are unable to timely predict industry changes or industry trends, or if we are unable to modify our products or design, manufacture and deliver new products on a timely basis, or if a third party with which we engage does not timely deliver a component or service for one of our product modifications or new products, we might lose customers or market share. In addition, we might not be able to recover our research and development expenditures, which could harm our operating results. We have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-offs and asset impairment charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business. We recorded material restructuring charges related to our global workforce reductions in fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , and impairment charges related to our long-lived assets in fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 . As we continue to align our operations with our business requirements, we may implement additional cost reduction actions, which would require us to take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to employee terminations, asset disposal or exit costs. We may also be 14 required to write off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of inventory experience declines, and such additional write-offs could constitute material charges. In addition, significant adverse changes in market conditions could require us to take additional material impairment charges related to our long-lived assets. Our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives using the straight-line and accelerated methods and are reviewed for impairment annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. The valuation of our long-lived assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. Other adverse changes in market conditions, particularly if such changes have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we use in our assessment of the recoverability of our long-lived assets, could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in future impairment charges. We may also incur charges for factory underutilization depending upon the demand for our products and factory capacity. Any such additional charges, whether related to restructuring, asset impairment or factory underutilization may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements. Our recent restructuring plans may not have properly aligned our cost structure with our business needs and overall semiconductor industry requirements and even though completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. In each of fiscal 2009 through 2015 , we conducted reductions in our work force as part of company-wide organizational restructurings or cost reduction plans. These plans were intended to help focus our resources more strategically towards business needs and industry requirements. We realized certain cost savings from these restructuring actions, but our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if we experience unanticipated inefficiencies as a result of our restructuring activities, unanticipated or product delivery or quality issues resulting in impaired customer relationships caused by reduced headcount, or delay in ramping the manufacture of our products or delay in our development, introduction and qualification of our new products and technologies. We cannot ensure we will not undertake additional workforce reductions, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. Any of these issues could render our restructuring plan ineffective, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. If we do not continue to take steps to optimize the structure of our operations to position our company for long-term, profitable growth, we might not succeed. The timing, length and severity of the cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry are difficult to predict. This cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict our future operating results and plan our business, and could also impair the value of our tangible and intangible assets. We implemented global cost reduction plans in each fiscal year from 2009 through 2014 and are continuing to pursue measures to improve our operating efficiency. Such cost reduction plans and measures to improve operating efficiency have included workforce reductions, the consolidation of manufacturing capacity, the centralization of support functions to regional and global shared service centers and the combining of the technical and manufacturing teams across multiple product lines. If we do not continue to implement measures for optimizing our financial model for prevailing market conditions, our competitiveness could be seriously harmed, our ability to invest in our business for future growth may be negatively impacted and our company might not succeed. If we do not successfully structure our operations by, for example, strengthening our local application and service capabilities to improve customer responsiveness, changing our manufacturing structure and processes for shorter cycle time and improved product delivery capabilities, realigning our research and development efforts, and continue to motivate and retain our key employees, we may experience deterioration in our business and our company might not succeed. In addition, if we are unable to proactively and effectively manage our operations and/or realign our controls, systems and infrastructure to changing business conditions, for example as the semiconductor industry moves past a cyclical downturn, we may not be in a position to boost our personnel, manufacturing capacity, service capabilities and productivity, and support growth in response to increasing customer demand for our products, which would, in turn, have a negative impact on our operating results. Our pricing for our products could result in certain customers deciding to not purchase our products, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. We believe that our pricing guidelines are consistent with normal industry cost learning curves, but certain customers may in the future react negatively to our pricing and elect to not purchase our products, to purchase fewer of our products as compared to those of our competitors, or to phase out the purchase of our products, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. 15 If goodwill or other intangible assets that we recorded in connection with the MicroProbe Acquisition become impaired, we could be required to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the MicroProbe Acquisition, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired. Finite-lived intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders' equity in future periods. Similarly, any goodwill we may record upon the completion of our proposed acquisition of Cascade Microtech could become impaired in future periods. Refer to note 8 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Goodwill and Intangible Assets for further details relating to our annual goodwill impairment assessment. Periodic global economic and semiconductor industry downturns could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Global economic and semiconductor industry downturns have in the past negatively affected and could in the future negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. During a downturn, we may experience declines in demand for our probe cards resulting from our customers taking steps to conserve cash by cutting production, postponing the implementation of tooling cycles and delaying the ramp of new technology nodes in response to slow demand for consumer and other products incorporating devices tested with our probe cards. We may also experience increased pricing pressure on certain of our products, which may reduce our gross margins. A protracted downturn could cause customers to become insolvent, resulting in a loss of revenue and/or the uncollectability of accounts receivable. Downturns have historically, and may in the future, cause customers to seek extended payment terms or delay payment for our products past their original due dates, resulting in deferral of revenue and increasing our potential bad debt exposure. It is also possible that one or more of our key suppliers may become insolvent, leading to delays in the development and shipment of our products, increased expense and loss of revenue. In addition, we may experience increased impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of marketable debt securities, or charges based upon underutilization of our factory. Environmental and other disasters, such as flooding, earthquakes, fires, volcanic eruptions or leakage from nuclear reactors, or a combination thereof, may negatively impact our business. Our business is vulnerable to the direct and indirect impact of environmental and other disasters. For example, flooding in Thailand in 2012 negatively impacted the operations of several disk drive manufacturers, which created a shortage of disk drives available for incorporation into personal computers. This disk drive shortage resulted in a slowing of the manufacture of personal computers and for the DRAM incorporated into personal computers, which created an oversupply of DRAM devices and caused price erosion for our DRAM probe cards. It is possible that future acts of terrorism, environmental events or natural disasters, such as earthquakes and aftershocks, and infrastructure events arising out of such occurrences and disasters, could negatively impact our suppliers ability to supply components to us on a timely basis. Any such delays in supplying or delivering components to us could, and any catastrophic loss suffered by our key suppliers would likely, disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments and adversely affect our revenues and business. Similarly, any catastrophic loss at our California facilities, such as from an earthquake, would materially and adversely affect our business. If we are unable to efficiently manufacture our existing probe card products and our new probe card products, our business may be materially adversely affected. We must continuously improve our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase yields and product performance, lower our costs and reduce the time required for us to design, manufacture and deliver our products in volume. If we cannot do these things, both our existing products and our new products may not be commercially successful, our revenues may be adversely affected, our customer relationships and our reputation may be harmed and our business may be materially adversely affected. To improve our manufacturing processes, we have incurred, and may incur in the future, substantial costs in an effort to optimize capacity and yields, implement new manufacturing technologies, methods and processes, purchase new equipment, upgrade existing equipment and train technical personnel. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, manufacturing delays and other inefficiencies in connection with implementation of these improvements and customer qualifications of new processes, which have caused and could cause in the future, our operating results to decline. We have also experienced, and may experience in the future, difficulties in manufacturing our complex products in volume on time and at acceptable yields and cost and installation issues in the field due to the complexity of customer design requirements, including integration of probe cards with varying customer test cell environments and testing of semiconductor devices over a wide temperature range. For example, design and manufacturing delays related to our Matrix architecture products resulted in qualification at certain customers taking longer than we anticipated. Once a new product or technology is 16 qualified, if we are unable to timely and efficiently expand our manufacturing capacity and ramp volume production to meet customer demand, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Delayed qualification has caused in the past, and could continue to cause, lost sales opportunities. This increases our vulnerability to our competitors and the likelihood that our customers will seek solutions from other suppliers or to develop solutions themselves. If demand for our products decreases, we could have excess manufacturing capacity. The fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity could cause our operating results to decline. If we are unable to achieve further manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions, particularly if we are experiencing pricing pressures in the marketplace, our operating results could suffer. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry and within the semiconductor test equipment market could adversely affect the market for our products and negatively impact our ability to compete, which could cause a decline in our revenues. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may reduce our customer base and could adversely affect the market for our products, which could cause a decline in our revenues. With consolidation, the number of semiconductor customers in the industry has decreased in recent years. Consolidation may lead to relatively fewer opportunities to sell our products if we are not chosen as a supplier by any given prospective customer, and may lead to increased pricing pressures from customers that have greater volume purchasing power. There has also been a recent move toward consolidation within the semiconductor test equipment market. This consolidation trend could change our interactions and relationships with semiconductor tester and prober companies and negatively impact our revenue and operating results. We depend upon the sale of our probe cards for substantially all of our revenues, and the majority of our probe cards are utilized by semiconductor manufacturers for testing SoC and DRAM devices. If we experience a downturn in demand for our SoC and DRAM products, our revenues could decline. We have historically derived substantially all of our revenues from the sale of our probe cards to manufacturers of DRAM, flash memory devices, and microprocessor, chipset and other SoC devices. Subsequent to the acquisition of MicroProbe in October 2012, our revenues have substantially been derived from the sale of our probe cards to manufacturers of SoC and DRAM devices. For fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , sales to manufacturers of SoC devices accounted for 52% , 53% and 50% , respectively, of our revenues. Sales to manufacturers of DRAM devices accounted for 44% , 41% and 40% , respectively, and sales to manufacturers of Flash Memory devices accounted for 4% , 6% and 10% , respectively. We anticipate that sales of probe cards will represent a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our success depends in large part upon the continued acceptance of our products and our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' requirements on a timely basis resulting in gained market share. In particular, to continue to grow our business, we need to gain additional market share with manufacturers of Flash memory and SoC devices. To the extent that we are unable to realize cost reductions and manufacturing efficiencies in the production of our probe cards, or if we are not able to timely deliver our products, our revenues and business operations could be adversely impacted and our ability to grow could suffer. In 2013, we increased our activities and spending on the development of a new NAND Flash probe card architecture, which is incorporated into our Vector NAND Flash memory probe card. In 2015, we successfully qualified our Vector probe card at two customers. If we are not able to continue to successfully qualify our Vector product for other additional customers in the future, or if customers do not qualify the Vector product and purchase it for NAND Flash Memory wafer test, it could negatively impact our revenues and margins and harm our business. As our next generation probe cards are used in greater volume in commercial production, it is possible that we will identify certain areas of technical performance that require improvement, and if we are unable to continually, efficiently and in a timely manner improve our products, we could suffer reduced demand for our products and our operating results could be harmed. If chip manufacturers fail to make architecture, node or technology transitions as we anticipate, or if anticipated or announced transitions are delayed, it could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. In addition, we might not be able to sustain or increase our revenues from sales of our probe cards, particularly if the semiconductor market enters another downturn. Any decrease in revenues from sales of our probe cards could harm our business. If our relationships with our customers and companies that manufacture semiconductor test equipment deteriorate, our product development activities could be harmed. The success of our product development efforts depends upon our ability to anticipate market trends and to collaborate closely with our customers and with companies that manufacture semiconductor test equipment. Our relationships with these customers and companies provide us with access to valuable information regarding manufacturing and process technology trends in the semiconductor industry, which enables us to better plan our product development activities. These relationships 17 also provide us with opportunities to understand the performance and functionality requirements of our customers, which improves our ability to customize our products to fulfill their needs. Our relationships with test equipment companies are important to us because test equipment companies can design the use of our probe cards into their equipment and provide us with the insight into their product plans. This cooperation allows us to offer probe cards for use with the test equipment companies' products when they are introduced to the market as opposed to several months or more later, which would negatively impact our revenues. Our relationships with our customers and test equipment companies could deteriorate if they: become concerned about our ability to protect their intellectual property; become concerned with our ability to deliver quality products on a timely basis; develop their own solutions to address the need for testing improvement; implement chip designs that include enhanced built-in self-test capabilities; regard us as a competitor in the case of test-equipment company, or in the case of a customer believe we are too closely aligned with a competitor of the customer; introduce their own probe card product; establish relationships with others in our industry; acquire or invest in a competitive probe card manufacturer or enter into a business venture with a competitive probe card manufacturer; or attempt to restrict our ability to enter into relationships with their competitors. Many of our customers and the test equipment companies we work with are large companies. The consequences of deterioration in our relationship with any of these companies could be exacerbated due to the significant influence these companies can exert in our markets. If our current relationships with our customers and test equipment companies deteriorate, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers and test equipment companies in the future, our long-term ability to produce commercially successful products could be impaired. Because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets, revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Our revenues are difficult to forecast because we generally do not have sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets at the beginning of a quarter. Rather, a substantial percentage of our revenues in any quarter depend upon customer orders for our probe cards that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations could hurt our operating results. We manufacture substantially all our products at our facilities in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California, and any disruption in the operations of these facilities or our customer's manufacturing facilities could adversely impact our business and operating results. Certain of our manufacturing processes and our customers' processes require sophisticated and expensive equipment and specially designed facilities, including semiconductor clean rooms. We manufacture the majority of our probe cards at our facilities located in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California. Any disruption in our manufacturing, whether due to contamination in our manufacturing process, technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortage or any other reason, could interrupt our operations, impair critical systems, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers, and cause us to write off inventory, thereby potentially resulting in the loss of revenues. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of a fully operational alternate manufacturing facility to be a risk to their continuing source of supply. Similarly, any of these events, such as contamination, fire, power or water shortage and labor strike could interrupt our customer's operations thereby potentially resulting in the loss of revenues to our company. 18 If we are unable to continue to reduce the time it takes for us to design and produce a probe card, our growth could be impeded. Our customers continuously seek to reduce the time it takes them to introduce new products to market. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, coupled with changing demands for semiconductor devices, requires our customers to be flexible and highly adaptable to changes in the volume and mix of products they must produce. Each of those changes requires a new design and each new design requires a new probe card. For some existing semiconductor devices, the manufacturers' volume and mix of product requirements are such that we are unable to design, manufacture and ship products to meet manufacturers' relatively short cycle time requirements. We have lost sales in the past where we were unable to meet a customer's required delivery schedule for probe cards for a particular design. If we are unable to reduce the time it takes for us to design, manufacture and ship our products in response to the needs of our customers, our competitive position could be harmed and we could lose sales. If we are unable to increase design and manufacturing capacity in the event demand increases, our ability to respond to customer requirements could be challenged and our revenues could be negatively impacted. We obtain some of the components and materials we use in our products from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenues. We obtain some of the components and materials used in our products, such as printed circuit board assemblies, plating materials and ceramic substrates, from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. Alternative sources are not currently available for sole source components and materials. Because we rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with the majority of our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to obtain components and materials in the longer term. A sole or limited source supplier could increase prices, which could lead to a decline in our gross profit. Our dependence upon sole or limited source suppliers exposes us to several other risks, including inability to obtain an adequate supply of materials, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, the ability of any of these suppliers to timely provide us with sufficient quality materials would be adversely affected if they are forced to reduce or discontinue operations due to financial difficulties. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or materials could delay shipments of our products, damage our customer relationships and reduce our revenues. For example, if we were unable to obtain an adequate supply of a component or material, we might have to use a substitute component or material, which could require us to make changes in our manufacturing process and could also require us to re-qualify impacted product at certain customers. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in receiving shipments from one or more of our suppliers, especially during periods of high demand for our products. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of the components and materials we require, or do not receive them in a timely manner, we might be required to identify new suppliers. We might not be able to identify new suppliers on a timely basis or at all. We, as well as our customers, would also need to qualify any new suppliers. The lead-time required to identify and qualify new suppliers could affect our ability to timely ship our products and cause our operating results to suffer. Further, a sole or limited source supplier could require us to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments, minimum volume purchases or pay in advance to ensure our source of supply. In an industry downturn or in an environment in which growth is not at a level we projected or anticipated, commitments of this type could result in charges for excess inventory of parts. Further, if a customer's needs for a particular probe card design and purchase orders for those probe cards are spread out over several months as opposed to being placed at one time in a single purchase order, it may cause us to purchase excessive materials or components in light of minimum purchase requirements or to be unable to realize volume discounts for materials or components because of the lack of visibility into the customer's overall purchase plan. These purchase issues would require us to incur a greater cost of goods sold than we might otherwise realize. These issues are also magnified in those situations in which the supplied material or component is a custom component for a unique customer probe card design. Additionally, if we are unable to predict our component and materials needs accurately, or if our supply is disrupted, we might miss market opportunities by not being able to meet the demand for our products. Probe cards that do not meet specifications or that contain defects could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our technology, cause us to lose customers and revenues, and result in liability to us. The complexity and ongoing development of our probe card manufacturing process, combined with increases in probe card production volumes, have in the past and could in the future lead to design or manufacturing problems. For example, we have experienced the presence of contaminants in our plating baths, which have caused a decrease in our manufacturing yields or have resulted in unanticipated stress-related failures when our probe cards are being used in the manufacturing test environment. This contamination problem caused a yield decline that, in turn, resulted in our inability to timely ship products to our customers. Manufacturing design errors such as the mis-wiring of a probe card or the incorrect placement of probe contact elements have caused us to repeat manufacturing design steps. In addition to these examples, problems might result from a 19 number of factors, including design defects, materials failure, failure of components manufactured by our suppliers to meet our specifications, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, and unknown sensitivities to process conditions such as temperature and humidity, and equipment failures. As a result, our products have in the past contained and might in the future contain undetected errors or defects. Any errors or defects could: cause lower than anticipated yields and lengthen delivery schedules; cause delays in product shipments; cause delays in new product introductions; cause us to incur warranty expenses; result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory; require design modifications; or decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with these products. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if any of our products fail to meet specifications when installed in the customer's test environment, or have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, an increase in product returns or warranty costs and the loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. For example, in mid-2013, we experienced certain supply chain and manufacturing challenges that impacted critical deliveries for a key DRAM customer in Japan. These delays and manufacturing challenges not only impacted in-quarter short-term revenue, but also resulted in our loss of future orders and increased warranty costs and required us to implement programs to re-establish ourselves as a key supplier to the customer. These consequences negatively impacted our operating results. Our customers use our products with test equipment and software in their manufacturing facilities. Our products must be compatible with the customers' equipment and software to form an integrated system. While we have designed our test capabilities and standards to replicate the actual test environment of our customers and continually work to improve our capabilities, it is possible that our probe card will perform differently in the customers' actual test environments. If our probe card does not function properly within a customer's specific test environment, we could be required to provide field application engineers to locate the problem, which can take time and resources. If the problem relates to our probe cards, we might have to invest significant capital, manufacturing capacity and other resources to correct it. Our current or potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. If our ability to forecast demand for our products or the predictability of our manufacturing yields deteriorates, we could incur higher inventory losses than we currently experience. Each semiconductor chip design requires a custom probe card. Because our products are design-specific, demand for our products is difficult to forecast. Due to our customers' short delivery time requirements, we often design and procure materials and, at times, produce our products in anticipation of demand for our products rather than in response to an order. Our manufacturing yields, particularly for new DRAM and Flash Memory probe cards, have at times been unpredictable and consequently, we have produced more components for probe cards, or actual probe cards, than forecasted demand. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, or if we produce additional inventory to compensate for unpredictable manufacturing yields, we could have excess or obsolete inventory for a specific customer design that we would not be able to sell to any other customer, which would likely result in inventory write-offs or material charges for scrap. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure