Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Revenues - Revenues by Geographic Region" and Note 15 - Operating Segments and Geographic Information of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Backlog Our backlog was $25.0 million at December 28, 2013 compared to $27.0 million at December 29, 2012 . We manufacture our wafer probe cards based on order backlog and customer commitments. Backlog includes only orders with written authorizations and shipment dates within 12 months. Backlog also includes revenue for existing product service agreements to be earned within the next 12 months. Customers may delay delivery of products or cancel orders prior to shipment, subject to possible cancellation penalties. Due to possible changes in delivery schedules and cancellations of orders, our backlog on any particular date is not necessarily indicative of actual sales for any succeeding period. Delays in delivery schedules and/or a reduction in backlog during any particular period could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Manufacturing Our wafer probe cards are custom products that we design and manufacture to order for our customers' unique wafer designs and wafer test strategies. Our proprietary manufacturing processes can generally be divided into a front-end process, which, depending upon the specific product, may include wire bonding, photolithography, plating and metallurgical processes, dry and electro-deposition, pick and place assembly and complex interconnection system design, and a back-end process, which includes assembly and test. The critical steps in our manufacturing process are performed in a Class 100 clean room environment. We depend upon suppliers for some critical components of our manufacturing processes, including ceramic substrates and complex printed circuit boards, and for materials used in our manufacturing processes. We also rely on suppliers to provide certain contacts and interconnects incorporated into our products. Some of these components and materials are supplied by a single vendor, and some are subject to certain minimum order quantities. Generally, we rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with our suppliers, which subjects us to risks, including price increases, manufacturing capacity issues and component shortages. We continue to evaluate alternative sources of supply for these components and materials. 6 Our primary manufacturing facilities are located in Livermore, San Jose and Carlsbad, California, United States. We also perform certain probe card manufacturing operations in our facility in Suzhou, China and Yokohama, Japan. We maintain repair and service capabilities in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California, United States; Austin, Texas, United States; Dresden, Germany; Gyeonggi-do, South Korea; Yokohama City and Hiroshima, Japan; Suzhou, China; Hsinchu, Taiwan; and Singapore. Research, Development and Engineering The semiconductor industry is subject to rapid technological change and new product introductions and enhancements. We believe that our continued commitment to research and development and our timely introduction of new and enhanced wafer probe test solutions and technologies related to our products are integral to maintaining our competitive position. We continue to allocate significant resources to these efforts and to use automation and information technology to provide additional efficiencies in our research and development activities. Research and development expenses were $42.1 million for fiscal 2013 , $40.1 million for fiscal 2012 and $43.5 million for fiscal 2011 . Sales and Marketing We sell our products utilizing a sales model that emphasizes the customer's total cost of ownership as it relates to the costs of test. With this sales model, we strive to demonstrate how test costs can be reduced by simulating the customer's test floor environment, including testers and probers, utilizing our products and comparing the overall cost of test to that of conventional and competitive wafer probe cards. We sell our products worldwide primarily through a combination of a global direct sales force, independent sales representatives and distributors. Our sales and marketing staff, located in the United States, China, Germany, Italy, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan, work closely with customers to understand their businesses, anticipate trends and define products that will provide significant technical and economic advantages to our customers. We utilize a highly skilled team of field application engineers that support our customers as they integrate our products into their manufacturing processes. Through these customer relationships, we develop a close understanding of customer and product requirements, thereby aligning our products with our customers' production ramps. Environmental Matters We are subject to U.S. federal, state and local, and foreign governmental laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, including those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites and the maintenance of a safe workplace. We believe that we comply in all material respects with the environmental laws and regulations that apply to us, including those of the California Department of Toxic Substances Control, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District, the City of Livermore Water Resources Division, County of Santa Clara Department of Environmental Health, County of San Diego Hazardous Materials Division and Encino Water District, and the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health. We did not receive any notices of violations of environmental laws and regulations in fiscal 2013 , 2012 or 2011 . No provision has been made for loss from environmental remediation liabilities associated with our facilities because we believe that it is not probable that a liability has been incurred as of December 28, 2013 . We believe we are in compliance in all material respects with the environmental laws and regulations that apply to us. In the future, we may receive environmental violation notices, and final resolution of the violations could harm our operations and adversely impact our operating results and cash flows. New laws and regulations, amended enforcement practices around existing laws and regulations, discovery of previously unknown contamination at our or others' sites or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could also harm our operations. We are also subject to new SEC rules that will require diligence, disclosure and reporting on whether certain minerals and metals, known as conflict minerals, used in our products originate from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries. We have implemented a program to comply with these new rules, which could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals we use in our products. We will not only incur costs in relation to our compliance with disclosure requirements, but may also face difficulties in satisfying customers who require that all of our products are certified as conflict mineral free. 7 Competition The highly competitive wafer probe card market comprises many domestic and foreign companies, and has historically been fragmented with many local suppliers servicing individual customers. Our current and potential competitors in the wafer probe card market include Advantest Corporation, AMST Co., Ltd., BucklingBeam Solutions, Cascade Microtech, Inc., Feinmetall GmbH, Korea Instrument Co., Ltd., Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, SV Probe, Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., Microfriend Inc., Soulbrain Engineering, Technoprobe, TSE Co., Ltd., Wentworth Laboratories, Inc., and Will Technology Co., Ltd, among others. In addition to the ability to address wafer probe card performance issues, the primary competitive factors in the industry in which we compete include product quality and reliability, price, total cost of ownership, lead times, service, field applications support and timeliness of delivery. Some of our competitors are also suppliers of other types of test equipment or other semiconductor equipment and may have greater financial and other resources than we do. We expect that our competitors will enhance their current wafer probe products and that they may introduce new products that will be competitive with our wafer probe cards. In addition, it is possible that new competitors, including test equipment manufacturers, may offer new technologies that reduce the value of our wafer probe cards. Additionally, semiconductor manufacturers may implement chip designs that include built-in self-test, or BIST, capabilities or similar functions or methodologies that increase test throughput and eliminate some or all of our current competitive advantages. Our ability to compete favorably may also be adversely affected by (1) delays in qualification of our new products, (2) low volume orders that do not meet our present minimum volume requirements, (3) very short cycle time requirements, (4) long-standing relationships between our competitors and certain semiconductor manufacturers and (5) semiconductor manufacturer test strategies that include low performance semiconductor testers and less complex wafer probe cards. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part upon our ability to continue to innovate and invest in research and development to meet the semiconductor testing requirements of our customers, to maintain and protect our proprietary technology and to conduct our business without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and contractual restrictions on disclosure to protect our intellectual property rights. As of December 28, 2013 , we had 668 issued patents, of which 446 are United States patents and 222 are foreign patents. The expiration dates of these patents range from 2013 to 2030 . Our issued patents cover many of the features of our interconnect technology, as well as some of our inventions related to wafer probe cards and testing, wafer-level packaging and test, sockets and assemblies and chips. In addition, as of December 28, 2013 , we had 266 patent applications pending worldwide, including 48 United States applications, 212 foreign national or regional stage applications and 6 Patent Cooperation Treaty applications. We cannot provide any assurance that our current patent applications, or any future patent applications that we may file, will result in a patent being issued with the scope of the claims we seek, or at all, or whether any patents that we may obtain will not be challenged or invalidated. Even if additional patents are issued, our patents might not provide sufficiently broad coverage to protect our proprietary rights or to avoid a third party claim against one or more of our products or technologies. We have both registered and unregistered trademarks, including FormFactor, ATRE, DC-Boost, Matrix, MicroSpring, RapidSoak, SmartMatrix, SmartMatrix 100, TouchMatrix, OneTouch, Takumi, TRE, TrueScale, TrueScale Lite, the FormFactor logo, MicroProbe, the MicroProbe logo, QiLin, Mx-FinePitch, Vx-MP, Vx-RF and Apollo. We routinely require our employees, customers, suppliers and potential business partners to enter into confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements before we disclose to them any sensitive or proprietary information regarding our products, technology or business plans. We require our employees to assign to us proprietary information, inventions and other intellectual property they create, modify or improve. Legal protections afford only limited protection for our proprietary rights. We also may not be successful in our efforts to enforce our proprietary rights. To date, for example, we have been unsuccessful in our efforts to enforce certain of our patent rights and obtain injunctive relief for violation of those rights in South Korea, and through the U.S. International Trade Commission, or ITC. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. From time to time, we have become aware of situations where others are or may be infringing on our proprietary rights. We evaluate these situations as they arise and elect to take actions against these companies as we deem appropriate. In response to our actions, and on occasion without any action on our part, proceedings have been filed in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices in other countries, challenging the validity of certain of our patents. Others might independently develop similar or competing technologies or methods, design around our patents, or attempt to manufacture and sell infringing products in countries that do 8 not strongly enforce intellectual property rights. In addition, leading companies in the semiconductor industry have extensive patent portfolios and other intellectual property with respect to semiconductor technology. In the future, we might receive claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights of others or that our patents or other intellectual property rights are invalid. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, communications from third parties inquiring about our interest in licensing certain of their intellectual property or more generally identifying intellectual property that may be of interest to us. We have invested significant time and resources in our technology. As a part of our ongoing efforts to protect the intellectual property, we have filed actions to enforce our intellectual property rights against infringing third parties and may pursue such actions in the future. For a description of the material patent-related proceedings in which we are involved, see "Item 3: Legal Proceedings". Employees As of December 28, 2013 , we had 961 regular full-time employees, including 210 in research and development, 116 in sales and marketing, 75 in general and administrative functions, and 560 in operations. By region, 685 of our employees were in North America, 75 in Singapore, 78 in China, 34 in Japan, 47 in South Korea, 35 in Taiwan, and 7 in Europe. No employees are currently covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe that our relations with our employees are good. Available Information We maintain a website at http://www.formfactor.com . We make available free of charge on our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the United State Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. The reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained at the site. The public may also read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports and other information regarding issuers, such as FormFactor, that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC's Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov . Directors and Executive Officers Directors. The names of the members of our board of directors, their ages as of December 28, 2013 and their current occupations are set forth below. Name of Director Age Current Occupation Edward Rogas, Jr. 73 Director of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation and Vignani Technologies Pvt Ltd G. Carl Everett, Jr.(1) 63 Venture Partner at Accel LLP Lothar Maier 58 Chief Executive Officer and Director of Linear Technology Corporation Michael D. Slessor 44 President and Director of FormFactor, Inc. Michael W. Zellner 58 Director of FormFactor, Inc., Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cyan Inc. Richard DeLateur 55 Director of FormFactor, Inc. Thomas St. Dennis 60 Chief Executive Officer and Executive Chairman of FormFactor, Inc. (1) Mr. Everett has stated his intention to not seek election as a director at our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. G. Carl Everett, Jr. has served as a Director since June 2001, as our Chairman from December 2010 to October 2013, as our Lead Independent Director since October 2013, and served as our interim Chief Executive Officer from May 2010 to September 2010, as well as our Executive Chairman from September 2010 to December 2010. Mr. Everett founded GCE Ventures, a venture advisement firm, in April 2001. Mr. Everett has served as a venture partner at Accel LLP, a venture capital firm, since 2002. From February 1998 to April 2001, Mr. Everett served as Senior Vice President, Personal Systems Group of Dell, Inc. During 1997, Mr. Everett was on a personal sabbatical. From 1978 to December 1996, Mr. Everett held several management positions with Intel Corporation, including Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Microprocessor 9 Products Group, and Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Desktop Products Group. Mr. Everett currently serves on the board of directors of three privately held companies. Mr. Everett holds a B.A. in business administration and an honorary Doctorate of Laws from New Mexico State University. Lothar Maier has served as a Director since November 2006. Mr. Maier has served as the Chief Executive Officer and a member of the board of directors of Linear Technology Corporation (Nasdaq: LLTC), a supplier of high performance analog integrated circuits since January 2005. Prior to that, Mr. Maier served as Linear Technology's Chief Operating Officer from April 1999 to December 2004. Before joining Linear Technology, Mr. Maier held various management positions at Cypress Semiconductor Corporation, a provider of high-performance, mixed-signal, programmable solutions, from 1983 to 1999, most recently as Senior Vice President and Executive Vice President of Worldwide Operations. Mr. Maier holds a B.S. in chemical engineering from the University of California at Berkeley. Thomas St. Dennis has served as our Chief Executive Officer and a Director since September 2010, when he joined our company and as our Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors since October 23, 2013. Mr. St. Dennis previously held various positions at Applied Materials, Inc. from 1992 to 1999 and again from 2005 to 2009. His most recent role at Applied Materials, Inc. was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Silicon Systems Group. He also worked at Novellus Systems, Inc. as Executive Vice President of Sales and Marketing from 2003 to 2005. From 1999 to 2003 Mr. St. Dennis was President and CEO of Wind River Systems, Inc. Mr. St. Dennis holds a B.S. in Physics and a M.S. in Physics, both from UCLA. Mike Slessor, has served as President and a Director since October 2013. Prior to this, Mr. Slessor served as the Senior Vice President and General Manager, MicroProbe Product Group from October 2012 to October 2013. Before joining FormFactor, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of MicroProbe from July 2008 through the October 2012 closing of FormFactor's acquisition of MicroProbe. Prior to joining MicroProbe, he held various management, product-marketing, and applications-engineering positions in the semiconductor industry, most notably with KLA-Tencor, where he led marketing and applications for the company's fastest growing division. Mr. Slessor received his Ph.D. in Aeronautics and Physics from the California Institute of Technology and his B.A.Sc. in Engineering Physics from the University of British Columbia. Edward Rogas, Jr. has served as a Director since October 2010. Mr. Rogas currently serves as a Director on the board of Vitesse Semiconductor Corporation. Mr. Rogas served as a Director of Vignani Technologies Pvt Ltd until February 2014 and Photon Dynamics, Inc., from May 2006 to October 2008. Mr. Rogas held management positions at Teradyne, Inc. for over 30 years, including serving as Senior Vice President from 2000 through 2005. Mr. Rogas holds an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School and a B.S. from the United States Naval Academy. Michael W. Zellner has served as a Director since April 2011. Mr. Zellner is currently Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Cyan, Inc. (NYSE: CYNI), a position he has held since March 2013. He was Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of PMC-Sierra, Inc. (Nasdaq: PMCS) from March 2007 to November 2012. Prior to joining PMC-Sierra, Mr. Zellner was Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Financial Officer at Wind River Systems, Inc., a device software solutions provider to the electronics industry. Mr. Zellner attended the Stanford Executive Program at the Stanford Graduate School of Business as well as the MBA and BBA accounting program at Florida Atlantic University. Richard DeLateur has served as a Director since May 2011. Mr. DeLateur served as Chief Financial Officer of FormFactor, Inc. from May 2010 to May 2011. Mr. DeLateur is a 20-year veteran of Intel's finance team, where he held various positions, including the role of Vice President and Group Controller of Worldwide Technology and Manufacturing. Mr. DeLateur more recently served as Chief Financial Officer at the private companies Fluidigm Corporation and Topsin Corporation. Mr. DeLateur had also served as a Director at Numonyx Corp., a leading manufacturer of Flash memory, which is now part of Micron Technology, Inc. Mr. DeLateur holds a B.A. in Economics from the University of California, Davis and was awarded his Chartered Financial Analyst (CFA) certification in 1999. Executive Officers. Our executive officers, their ages and their positions with our company as of December 28, 2013 are set forth below. Name Age Position Thomas St. Dennis 60 Chief Executive Officer Michael M. Ludwig 52 Chief Financial Officer Michael D. Slessor 44 President Stuart L. Merkadeau 52 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Michael M. Ludwig has served as our Chief Financial Officer since May 2011. Mr. Ludwig has also served as our Vice President, Finance from December 2009 to May 2011, was a consultant to our company from February 2009 to December 10 2009, and served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller from April 2001 to April 2007. Mr. Ludwig has also held senior level finance and accounting positions at Force 10 Networks, Inc., a division of Dell Inc., that builds and secures high performance networks, and at divisions of Tyco Electronics and Beckman Coulter. Mr. Ludwig holds a B.S. in accounting from California State Polytechnic University, Pomona. Stuart L. Merkadeau has served as one of our Senior Vice Presidents since October 2003 and as our General Counsel and Secretary since October 2002. Mr. Merkadeau previously served as one of our Vice Presidents from October 2002 to September 2003, and as our Vice President of Intellectual Property from July 2000 to October 2002. From 1990 to July 2000, Mr. Merkadeau practiced law as an associate and then a partner with Graham & James LLP, where he specialized in licensing and strategic counseling in intellectual property matters. Mr. Merkadeau is admitted to practice in California and registered to practice before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Mr. Merkadeau holds a B.S. in industrial engineering from Northwestern University and a J.D. from the University of California at Los Angeles. Item 1A: Risk Factors In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should carefully consider the risk factors discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K in evaluating FormFactor and our business. If any of the identified risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. The trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only ones we face. Additional risks that we currently do not know about or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. We have incurred significant costs related to our acquisition of Astria Semiconductor Holdings, Inc., including its subsidiary MicroProbe, Inc., and the acquisition may not be successful. On October 16, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Astria Semiconductor Holdings, Inc., including its major subsidiary Micro-Probe Incorporated, which is our most substantial acquisition to date (the "MicroProbe Acquisition"). See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more complete description of the MicroProbe Acquisition. MicroProbe transitioned from being a standalone privately-held corporation to a wholly-owned subsidiary of a public company. This combination entailed many changes, including the integration of MicroProbe, its personnel and its systems with those of FormFactor. These transition activities were complex and we incurred significant costs related to the MicroProbe Acquisition, and the commercial and financial success of the MicroProbe Acquisition is subject to many risks as set forth below: We may fail to realize synergies that we anticipated from the combination of the two companies; We may fail to retain key MicroProbe executives and employees, which could reduce the likelihood of success of the acquisition; The combination of the two companies may not deliver to our customers the benefits that we have anticipated, including a broader range of products, improved product service and support and enhanced R&D programs, and our customers may reduce their aggregate spending on MicroProbe and/or FormFactor products; We may assume unforeseen legal, regulatory, intellectual property or other liabilities; We will have less cash available for other purposes, including other acquisitions of technologies or businesses. If any of these factors impairs our ability to integrate our operations with those of MicroProbe's successfully or on a timely basis, we may not be able to realize the anticipated synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the businesses. In addition, we may be required to spend additional time or money on integration that otherwise would be spent on the development and expansion of our business. In addition, the market price of our common stock may decline if the integration of the businesses of FormFactor and MicroProbe fails to achieve financial benefits to the extent anticipated by financial analysts or investors, or the effect of the business combination on the financial results of the combined company is otherwise not consistent with the expectations of financial analysts or investors. We may make additional acquisitions and investments, which could put a strain on our resources, cause ownership dilution to our stockholders and adversely affect our financial results. 11 Integrating newly acquired businesses, products or technologies into our company could put a strain on our resources, could be expensive and time consuming, may cause delays in product delivery and might not be successful. Future acquisitions and investments could divert management's attention from other business concerns and expose our business to unforeseen liabilities or risks associated with entering new markets. In addition, we might lose key employees while integrating new organizations. We might not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses, products or technologies, and might not achieve anticipated revenues and cost benefits. Investments that we make may not result in a return consistent with our projections upon which such investments are made, or may require additional investment that we did not originally anticipate. In addition, future acquisitions could result in customer dissatisfaction, performance problems with an acquired company, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, possible impairment charges related to goodwill or other intangible assets or other unanticipated events or circumstances, any of which could harm our business. If goodwill or other intangible assets that we record in connection with the MicroProbe Acquisition become impaired, we could be required to take significant charges against earnings. In connection with the accounting for the MicroProbe Acquisition, we have recorded a significant amount of goodwill and other intangible assets. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets have been impaired. Finite-lived intangible assets will be assessed for impairment in the event of an impairment indicator. Any reduction or impairment of the value of goodwill or other intangible assets will result in a charge against earnings, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and stockholders' equity in future periods. Our delay in qualifying our next generation products at certain of our customers could result in higher development costs and loss of market share at those customers, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. We may suffer from delays in qualifying our next-generation products at our customers. In fiscal 2011 we engaged with certain customers on a next-generation, or evolution, of our SmartMatrix product which enables greater parallelism, and also with a SoC customer on a next-generation vertical probe technology. In the first quarter of our fiscal 2013, we announced that we suspended development activities specific to our next generation Matrix platform and would consolidate our technologies and development to extend the capabilities of the current Matrix platform. If this consolidation does not extend the capabilities of our products as anticipated, we may lose sales and our financial results will be negatively impacted. In 2013, we also scaled back our efforts on our next-generation vertical probe technology. In 2013, we increased our activities and spending on the development of a new NAND Flash wafer probe card architecture and have engagements with two customers to deliver products based on the new architecture. If we do not successfully develop and deliver production evaluation probe cards for these two customers, and if these or other customers do not qualify the product and purchase the product for NAND Flash wafer test, it could negatively impact our revenues and margins and harm our business. Periodic global economic and semiconductor industry downturns could continue to negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent and historical global economic and semiconductor industry downturns negatively affected and could continue to negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may experience continued declines in demand for our probe cards resulting from our customers continuing to conserve cash by cutting production, postponing the implementation of tooling cycles and delaying the ramp of new technology nodes in response to slow demand for consumer and other products incorporating devices tested with our wafer probe cards. We may experience continued pricing pressure on certain of our products, which may reduce our gross margins. A protracted downturn could cause additional customers to file for bankruptcy protection as occurred in 2009 with our customers Spansion and Qimonda, and in 2012 with our customer Elpida, resulting in our loss of revenue. In the past environment, customers were seeking extended payment terms or delaying payment for our products past their original due dates, which could impact their payment histories resulting in our deferral of revenue and which could increase our potential bad debt exposure. We may also experience the insolvency of key suppliers, leading to delays in the development and shipment of our products, increased expense and loss of revenue. In addition, we may experience increased impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of marketable debt securities, or charges based upon underutilization of our factory. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of customers, and we could continue to experience significant declines in our revenues if any major customer cancels, reduces, delays a purchase of, or does not place a projected order for our products, or does not pay us, or delays or extends payment for our products past their original due dates. A relatively small number of customers have accounted for a significant portion of our revenues in any particular period. Three customers represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2013 , three customers represented 55% of total revenues in fiscal 12 2012 and three customers represented 47% of total revenues in fiscal 2011 . In fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , our ten largest customers accounted for 75% , 80% and 82% of our revenues, respectively. We anticipate that sales of our products to a relatively small number of customers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry may increase this concentration. As a result of the global economic and semiconductor industry downturns, we have experienced significant declines in our revenues. In the future, the cancellation, reduction or deferral of even a small number of purchases of our products could significantly reduce our revenues in any particular period. Cancellations, reductions or deferrals could result from a delay in the recovery of the semiconductor industry, a weaker than anticipated recovery, another downturn in the semiconductor industry, or from manufacturing delays, quality or reliability issues with our products, or from interruptions to our customers' operations due to fire, natural disasters or other events. Furthermore, because our probe cards are custom products designed for our customers' unique wafer designs, any cancellations, reductions or delays can result in significant, non-recoverable costs. In some situations, our customers might be able to cancel or reduce orders without a significant penalty. Our customers could also fail to pay all or part of an invoice for our products. If a customer fails to pay us or delays payment for our products, we may be unable to recognize revenue, our financial condition and liquidity could be adversely impacted and we may incur additional charges for bad-debt reserve to the extent certain of our customers continue to face financial difficulties during this downturn. It is also possible that if we make the decision to initiate legal proceedings against customers to seek payment of outstanding receivables, it will negatively impact a customer relationship and result in lost revenues in the future. As happened with our customer ProMos Technologies, customers with financial difficulties may be forced to materially reduce or discontinue operations, file for bankruptcy or other relief, or may be acquired by one of our other customers, any of which would further reduce our customer base and/or result in the loss of revenues. The markets in which we participate are competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results could be harmed. We are experiencing increased competition in the wafer probe card market and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Increased competition has resulted in, and in the future is likely to result in, price reductions, reduced gross margins or loss of market share. Competitors might introduce new competitive products for the same markets that our products currently serve. These products may have better performance, lower prices and/or broader acceptance than our products. Competitive products may not have better performance, lower prices and/or broader acceptance than our products, but may be able to meet shorter delivery times required by customers and result in the loss of revenue for us. In addition, for products such as wafer probe cards, semiconductor manufacturers typically qualify more than one source to avoid dependence on a single source of supply. As a result, our customers would likely purchase products from our competitors. Current and potential competitors include Advantest Corporation, AMST Co., Ltd., BucklingBeam Solutions, Cascade Microtech, Inc., Feinmetall GmbH, Korea Instrument Co., Ltd., Japan Electronic Materials Corporation, SV Probe, Inc., Micronics Japan Co., Ltd., Microfriend Inc., Soulbrain Engineering, Technoprobe, TSE Co., Ltd., Wentworth Laboratories, Inc., and Will Technology Co., Ltd, among others. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, more established customer relationships or greater financial, technical, manufacturing, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they might be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products, and reduce prices to increase market share. Some of our competitors also supply other types of test equipment. Those competitors that offer both advanced wafer probe cards and needle probe cards might have strong, existing relationships with our existing customers or with potential customers. It is possible that one or more of our competitors may be able to increase their sales to with mutual customers, resulting in a loss of revenue share for us. It is further possible that existing or new competitors, including test equipment manufacturers, may offer new technologies that reduce the value of our wafer probe cards. If we fail to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology, which could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully in our markets and harm our operating results. If we choose not to protect our proprietary rights or fail in our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, our competitors might gain access to our technology. Unauthorized parties might attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Others might independently develop similar or competing technologies or methods or design around our patents. In addition, the laws of many foreign countries in which we or our customers do business do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. To date, we have not been successful in our efforts to enforce our proprietary rights and obtain injunctive relief for violation of those rights in South Korea and in the United States. As a result, our proprietary rights could be compromised, our competitors might offer products similar to ours and we might not be able to compete successfully. We also cannot assure that: our means of protecting our proprietary rights will be adequate; 13 patents will be issued from our pending or future applications; our existing or future patents will be sufficient in scope or strength to provide any meaningful protection or commercial advantage to us; our patents or other intellectual property will not be invalidated, circumvented or successfully challenged in the United States or foreign countries; or others will not misappropriate our proprietary technologies or independently develop similar technologies, duplicate our products or design around any of our patents or other intellectual property, or attempt to manufacture and sell infringing products in countries that do not strongly enforce intellectual property rights. We have spent in the past, and may be required to spend in the future, significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We presently believe it is likely that several of our competitors are using methodologies or have implemented structures into certain of their products that are covered by one or more of our intellectual property rights. In certain cases, our competitors have initiated re-examination proceedings in the USPTO and invalidity proceedings in foreign patent offices against certain of our patents. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, and whether initiated by us or by a third party, could result in significant and possibly material expense to us and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel. In addition, while patents are territorial and a ruling on a certain given patent does not necessarily impact the validity or enforceability of a corresponding or related patent in a different country, an adverse ruling in one country might negatively impact our ability to enforce the corresponding or related patent in other countries. Certain of our customer contracts contain provisions that require us to defend and/or indemnify our customers for third party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the cost to us of an adverse ruling in such a claim. An adverse determination could also negatively impact our ability to license certain of our technologies and methods to others, and result in our competitors being allowed to sell products with, or add to their products, features and benefits contained in our products, thereby reducing our competitive advantages over these competing products. If we do not innovate and keep pace with technological developments in the semiconductor industry, our products might not be competitive and our revenues and operating results could suffer. We must continue to innovate and to invest in research and development to improve our competitive position and to meet the testing requirements of our customers. Our future growth depends, in significant part, upon our ability to work effectively with and anticipate the testing needs of our customers and to develop and support new products and product enhancements to meet these needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. Our customers' testing needs are becoming more challenging as the semiconductor industry continues to experience rapid technological change driven by the demand for complex circuits that are shrinking in size, are increasing in speed and functionality and also becoming less expensive to produce. Examples of trends driving demand for technological research and development include semiconductor manufacturers' transition to 2x nanometer DRAM technology node, Flash and SoC fabrication process nodes, transition to higher gigabit density memory and lower-power multi-core processors, and rapid adoption of advanced IC packaging types, such as wafer-level packaging, Flipchip, Cu Pillar, and Through-Silicon-Via (TSV) technologies. Our customers expect that they will be able to integrate our wafer probe cards into any manufacturing process as soon as it is deployed. Therefore, to meet these expectations and remain competitive, we must continually design, develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and product enhancements with improved features. We may also work collaboratively with one or more third parties in the development of new technologies or in improvements to our existing technologies. It is possible that these collaborations may be delayed, or even ultimately prove unsuccessful, by matters outside of our control, such as the financial condition of the third party. It is possible that our internal development efforts and engagements with third parties regarding the development of manufacturing equipment having similar functionality may have a lengthy development and ramp up time and negatively impact our ability to complete new products and realize revenue from those products. Successful product design, development and introduction on a timely basis require that we: design innovative and performance-enhancing product architectures, technologies and features that differentiate our products from those of our competitors; in some cases engage with third parties who have particular expertise in order to complete one or more aspects of the design and manufacturing process; qualify with the customer(s) the new product, or an existing product incorporating new technology; 14 transition our products to new manufacturing technologies; identify emerging technological trends in our target markets; maintain effective marketing strategies; respond effectively to technological changes or product announcements by others; and adjust to changing market conditions quickly and cost-effectively. Not only do we need the technical expertise to implement the changes necessary to keep our technologies current, but we must also rely heavily on the judgment of our management to anticipate future market trends. If we are unable to timely predict industry changes or industry trends, or if we are unable to modify our products or design, manufacture and deliver new products on a timely basis, or if a third party with which we engage does not timely deliver a component or service for one of our product modifications or new products, we might lose customers or market share. In addition, we might not be able to recover our research and development expenditures, which could harm our operating results. Changes in customers' test strategies, equipment and processes could cause us to lose revenues. The demand for wafer probe cards depends in large part upon the number of semiconductor designs, the pace of technology and architecture transitions in chip designs and overall semiconductor unit volume. The time it takes to test a wafer depends upon the number of devices being tested, the complexity of these devices, the test software program and the test equipment itself. As test programs become increasingly effective and test throughput increases, the number of wafer probe cards required to test a given volume of devices declines. Therefore, advances in the test process could cause us to lose sales. Further, many semiconductor manufacturers are implementing chip designs featuring BIST capabilities or similar "design for testability", or DFT, functions or methodologies that increase test throughput and reduce the cost of test. These efforts include strategies to reduce the technical requirements on test equipment, or to improve data about device performance early in the manufacturing process, or to test the device later in the manufacturing process for quality assurance purposes. In some cases, BIST or DFT can create opportunities for our technologies. In other cases BIST or DFT can reduce requirements for wafer level test and reduce our opportunities. Although we seek to work with our customers to show ways that our technologies can be applied together with BIST and DFT approaches to create opportunities to further reduce the cost of test, the overall impact of BIST and DFT technologies, as they exist today and as they may be developed in the future, could slow the migration to wafer level testing and adversely affect our revenues. Similar results could occur if new chip designs are implemented which we are unable to test efficiently, or if semiconductor manufacturers reduce generally the amount or degree of wafer test they perform. We incur significant research and development expenses in conjunction with the introduction of new product architectures and platforms. Often, we time our product introductions to the introduction of new test equipment platforms or to enable a manufacturer's test roadmap when it elects to retain existing test platforms but requires certain test throughput. Because our customers require both test equipment and wafer probe cards, any delay or disruption in the introduction of new test equipment platforms would negatively affect our growth. Changes in customers' product roadmaps and the timelines associated with those roadmaps could negatively impact our product development effort and new product introductions, which could in turn, cause us to lose revenues. The demand for wafer probe cards depends in large part upon the demand for semiconductor devices and our customers' product roadmaps. For example, the DRAM market continued to be impacted negatively in fiscal 2013 as secular changes in the personal computer markets significantly lowered demand for commodity DRAM. The trend is forecasted by some of our customers and by some industry analysts to continue into 2014, which has resulted in certain customers planning lower investment in DRAM test and lower spending on DRAM probe cards for commodity DRAM application. As a consequence, we may make changes to our operational or R&D activities to reduce the breadth of our investments in certain of our products. For example, in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we announced that we suspended development activities specific to our next generation Matrix platform and will consolidate our technologies and development to extend the capabilities of the current Matrix platform. These changes were implemented in light of the lower demand for commodity DRAM. If this consolidation is not successful, or does not extend the capabilities of our products as anticipated, we may lose sales and our financial results will be negatively impacted. We have recorded significant restructuring, inventory write-offs and asset impairment charges in the past and may do so again in the future, which could have a material negative impact on our business. We recorded material restructuring charges related to our global workforce reductions and impairment charges related to our long-lived assets in fiscal 2013 , fiscal 2012 , and fiscal 2011 . In January 2014, we implemented an organizational 15 restructuring and cost reduction plan to improve our efficiency and effectiveness while better positioning the company for profitability. As we continue to align our operations with our business requirements, we may implement additional cost reduction actions, which would require us to take additional, potentially material, restructuring charges related to employee terminations, asset disposal or exit costs. We may also be required to write off additional inventory if our product build plans or usage of inventory experience further declines, and such additional write-offs could constitute material charges. In addition, significant adverse changes in market conditions could require us to take additional material impairment charges related to our long-lived assets. Our long-lived assets, including intangible assets, are amortized over their respective estimated useful lives using the straight-line and accelerated methods and are reviewed for impairment annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying amount may not be recoverable. The valuation of our long-lived assets requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including revenue and market growth, operating cash flows, market multiples, and discount rates. Other adverse changes in market conditions, particularly if such changes have the effect of changing one of the critical assumptions or estimates we use in our assessment of the recoverability of our long-lived assets could result in a change to the estimation of fair value that could result in future impairment charges. We may also incur charges for factory underutilization depending upon the demand for our products and factory capacity. Any such additional material charges, whether related to restructuring, asset impairment or factory underutilization may have a material negative impact on our operating results and related financial statements. Our recent restructuring plans may not have properly aligned our cost structure with our business needs and overall semiconductor industry requirements and even though completed may adversely affect our business, financial condition, or operating results. In each of fiscal 2009 through 2013 and into 2014, we conducted reductions in our work force as part of company-wide organizational restructurings or cost reduction plans. These plans were intended to help focus our resources more strategically towards business needs and industry requirements. We expect to realize cost savings from these restructuring actions. Our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if we experience unanticipated inefficiencies as a result of our restructuring activities, unanticipated or product delivery or quality issues resulting in impaired customer relationships caused by reduced headcount, or delay in ramping the manufacture of our products or delay in our development, introduction and qualification of our new products and technologies. We cannot ensure we will not undertake additional workforce reductions, that any of our restructuring efforts will be successful, or that we will be able to realize the cost savings and other anticipated benefits from our previous or future restructuring plans. Any of these issues could render our restructuring plan ineffective, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. If we do not continue to take steps to optimize the structure of our operations to position our company for long-term, profitable growth, we might not succeed. The timing, length and severity of the cyclical downturns in the semiconductor industry are difficult to predict. This cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict our future operating results and plan our business, and could also impair the value of our tangible and intangible assets. We implemented global cost reduction plans in each fiscal year from 2009 through 2013 , in January 2014, and are continuing to pursue measures to improve our operating efficiency. Such measures have included workforce reductions, the implementation of a shared service center, the consolidation of manufacturing capacity, the centralization of support functions to regional and global shared service centers and the combining of the technical and manufacturing teams across multiple product lines. If we do not continue to implement measures for optimizing our financial model for prevailing market conditions, our competitiveness could be seriously harmed, our ability to invest in our business for future growth may be negatively impacted and our company might not succeed. If we do not successfully structure our operations by, for example, strengthening our local application and service capabilities to improve customer responsiveness, changing our manufacturing structure for shorter cycle time and improved product delivery capabilities, and realigning our research and development efforts, and continue to motivate and retain our key employees, we may experience continued deterioration in our business and our company might not succeed. In addition, as the business environment improves, if we are unable to proactively and effectively manage our operations and/or realign our controls, systems and infrastructure to changing business conditions, we may not be in a position to boost our personnel, manufacturing capacity, service capabilities and productivity, and support growth in response to increasing customer demand for our products, which would, in turn, have a negative impact on our operating results. Adverse general economic conditions may also impair the recovery of our business. Our pricing for our products could result in certain customers deciding to not purchase our products, which could negatively impact our business and financial results. We believe that our pricing guidelines are consistent with normal industry cost learning curves, but certain customers may in the future react negatively to our pricing and elect to not purchase our products, to purchase fewer of our products as compared to those of our competitors, or to phase out the purchase of our products, in which case our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely impacted. 16 Changes in our tax rates, inability to realize our deferred tax assets or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our operating results. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in different jurisdictions. The amount of income taxes we pay are subject to audits in various jurisdictions and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could adversely affect our operating results. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates or changes in tax laws. Realization of our deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the United States, is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. In 2010, we determined that we would not be able to realize some portion of our deferred tax assets in the future, so we recorded a valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets that resulted in additional income tax expense. This valuation allowance does not limit our ability to utilize our federal and state deferred tax assets to offset future U.S. profits. The valuation allowance remains in effect as of December 28, 2013 . Environmental and other disasters, such as flooding, earthquakes, volcanic eruptions or leakage from nuclear reactors, or a combination thereof, may negatively impact our business. Our business is vulnerable to the direct and indirect impact of environmental and other disasters, such as the March 2011 earthquake off the coast of Japan and the resulting tsunami and disaster at certain nuclear power plants in Japan. For instance, while our design operations in Tokyo, Japan, and our repair facilities in Yokohama, Japan and Hiroshima, Japan were all not damaged by the March 2011 disasters in Japan, it is possible that our operations could be impacted in the future by the consequences of those events or similar future events. The facilities of certain of our suppliers, including suppliers of our ceramics, our printed circuit boards and certain of our mechanical parts, are located in Japan. While our suppliers did not report any significant damage to their facilities and they resumed operations consistent with the power usage guidelines in their respective areas, the supply chains for certain of our suppliers were negatively impacted. Additionally, the 2012 flooding in Thailand negatively impacted the operations of several disk drive manufacturers, which created a shortage of disk drives available for incorporation into personal computers. This disk drive shortage resulted in a slowing of the manufacture of personal computers and for the DRAM incorporated into personal computers. It is possible that future acts of terrorism, environmental events or natural disasters, such as earthquakes and aftershocks, and infrastructure events arising out of such occurrences and disasters, could negatively impact our suppliers ability to supply components to us on a timely basis. Any such delays in supplying or delivering components to us could, and any catastrophic loss suffered by our key suppliers would likely, disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments and adversely affect our revenues and business. Similarly, any catastrophic loss at our California facilities, such as from an earthquake, would materially and adversely affect our business. Cyclicality in the semiconductor industry may adversely impact our sales in the future, and as a result we have experienced and may continue to experience reduced revenues and operating results. The semiconductor industry has historically been cyclical and is characterized by wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, this industry has experienced significant downturns, often in connection with, or in anticipation of, maturing product and technology cycles, excess inventories and declines in general economic conditions. The global economic and semiconductor downturns have caused and may continue to cause our operating results to decline dramatically from one period to the next. Our business depends heavily upon the development and manufacture of new semiconductors, the rate at which semiconductor manufacturers make transitions to smaller nanometer technology nodes and implement tooling cycles, the volume of production by semiconductor manufacturers and the overall financial strength of our customers, which, in turn, depend upon the current and anticipated market demand for semiconductors and products, such as personal computers and cell phones, that use semiconductors. During industry downturns, semiconductor manufacturers generally sharply curtail their spending, including their equipment spending, and defer their adoption of emerging technologies and historically have lowered their spending disproportionately more than the decline in their revenues. This is particularly true when there is a point during an industry cycle in which the semiconductor manufacturers' costs related to semiconductor devices approach or exceed the sales price of the devices. As a result, we would experience reduced revenues due to the decreased demand for our wafer probe cards by our semiconductor manufacturer customers. Accordingly, if we are unable to adjust our levels of manufacturing and human resources or manage our costs and deliveries from suppliers in response to lower spending by semiconductor manufacturers, our gross margin may decline and cause us to experience further operating losses. If we are unable to efficiently manufacture our existing probe card products and our new probe card products, our business may be materially adversely affected. We must continuously improve our manufacturing processes in an effort to increase yields and product performance, lower our costs and reduce the time required for us to design, manufacture and deliver our products in volume. If we cannot, both our existing products and our new products may not be commercially successful, our revenues may be adversely affected, our customer relationships and our reputation may be harmed and our business may be materially adversely affected. To 17 improve our manufacturing processes, we have incurred, and may incur in the future, substantial costs in an effort to optimize capacity and yields, implement new manufacturing technologies, methods and processes, purchase new equipment, upgrade existing equipment and train technical personnel. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, manufacturing delays and other inefficiencies in connection with implementation of these improvements and customer qualifications of new processes, which have caused and could cause in the future, our operating results to decline. We have also experienced, and may experience in the future, difficulties in manufacturing our complex products in volume on time and at acceptable yields and cost and installation issues in the field due to complexity of customer design requirements, including integration of wafer probe cards with varying customer test cell environments and testing of semiconductor devices over a wide temperature range. For example, we experienced challenges transitioning our Harmony architecture-based products from a lower-volume, engineering-assisted process to a high-volume manufacturing process. These problems resulted in missed opportunities with customers. While we ramped commercial volume manufacturing of our Matrix architecture products at a significantly greater rate than our Harmony architecture products, design and manufacturing delays related to our Matrix architecture products resulted in qualification at certain customers taking longer than we anticipated. Once a new product or technology is qualified, if we are unable to timely and efficiently expand our manufacturing capacity and ramp volume production to meet customer demand, our operating results will be negatively impacted. Delayed qualification caused and could continue to cause lost sales opportunities. This increases our vulnerability to our competitors and the likelihood that our customers will seek solutions from other suppliers or to develop solutions themselves. If demand for our products decreases, we could have excess manufacturing capacity. The fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity could cause our operating results to decline. If we are unable to achieve further manufacturing efficiencies and cost reductions, particularly if we are experiencing pricing pressures in the marketplace, our operating results could suffer. Consolidation in the industry and within the semiconductor test equipment market could adversely affect the market for our products and negatively impact our ability to compete, which could cause a decline in our revenues. Consolidation in the semiconductor industry, particularly among manufacturers of DRAM devices, such as Micron Technology, Inc.'s 2013 acquisition of Elpida Memory, Inc., would reduce our customer base and could adversely affect the market for our products, which could cause a decline in our revenues. The global economic downturn caused significant disruption within the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry now has a smaller customer base than in past years. The loss of additional customers could further concentrate, and could adversely affect, the market for our products. Consolidation may lead to lost or delayed sales, reduced demand for our wafer probe cards, loss of market share and increased pricing pressures. Additionally, certain customers may not want to rely entirely or substantially on a single wafer probe card supplier and, as a result, such customers could reduce their purchases of our wafer probe cards. There has also been a recent move toward consolidation within the semiconductor test equipment market. For example, in 2010, after Verigy announced intent to combine with LTX Credence, a tester company, Advantest Corporation, made a successful unsolicited bid to acquire Verigy. In 2013, Applied Materials, Inc. and Tokyo Electron Ltd., a semiconductor equipment manufacturer that, among other products, manufactures semiconductor test probers announced a business combination that would merge two of the three largest chip equipment companies in the world. This consolidation trend could change our interactions and relationships with semiconductor tester and prober companies and negatively impact our revenue and operating results. We depend upon the sale of our wafer probe cards for substantially all of our revenues, and the majority of our wafer probe cards are utilized by semiconductor manufacturers for testing SoC and DRAM devices. If we continue to experience a downturn in demand for our SoC and DRAM products, our revenues could decline further. We have historically derived substantially all of our revenues from the sale of our wafer probe cards to manufacturers of DRAM, flash memory devices, and microprocessor, chipset and other SoC devices. Subsequent to the acquisition of MicroProbe in October 2012, our revenues for fiscal 2013 have substantially been derived from the sale of our wafer probe cards to manufacturers of SoC and DRAM devices. For fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , sales to manufacturers of SoC devices accounted for 50% , 26% and 17% , respectively, of our revenues. Sales to manufacturers of DRAM devices accounted for 40% , 57% and 68% , respectively, and sales to manufacturers of flash memory devices accounted for 10% , 17% and 15% , respectively. We anticipate that sales of our wafer probe cards will represent a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. Our success depends in large part upon the continued acceptance of our products within these markets and our ability to continue to develop and introduce new products that meet our customers' requirements on a timely basis for these markets. In particular, to continue to grow our business, we need to gain additional market share with manufacturers of Flash memory and SoC devices. To the extent that we are unable to realize cost reductions and manufacturing efficiencies in the production of our wafer probe cards, or if we are not able to timely deliver our products, our revenues and business operations could be adversely impacted and our ability to grow could suffer. In the NAND Flash market, we are continuing the development of our new NAND Flash product. In the second 18 half of 2013 and into 2014, we increased our activities on the development of a new NAND Flash wafer probe card architecture and have engagements with two customers to deliver products based on the new architecture. If we do not successfully develop and deliver production evaluation probe cards for these two customers, and if these or other customers do not qualify the product and purchase the product for NAND Flash wafer test, it could negatively impact our revenues and margins and harm our business. As our next generation wafer probe cards are used in greater volume in commercial production, it is possible that we will identify certain areas of technical performance that require improvement, and if we are unable to continually, efficiently and in a timely manner improve our products, we could suffer reduced demand for our products and our operating results could be harmed. If chip manufacturers fail to make architecture, node or technology transitions as we anticipate, or if anticipated or announced transitions are delayed, it could adversely impact our revenues and operating results. In addition, we might not be able to sustain or increase our revenues from sales of our wafer probe cards, particularly if conditions in the semiconductor market do not improve or if the market enters another downturn. Any decrease in revenues from sales of our wafer probe cards could harm our business. If our relationships with our customers and companies that manufacture semiconductor test equipment deteriorate, our product development activities could be harmed. The success of our product development efforts depends upon our ability to anticipate market trends and to collaborate closely with our customers and with companies that manufacture semiconductor test equipment. Our relationships with these customers and companies provide us with access to valuable information regarding manufacturing and process technology trends in the semiconductor industry, which enables us to better plan our product development activities. These relationships also provide us with opportunities to understand the performance and functionality requirements of our customers, which improve our ability to customize our products to fulfill their needs. Our relationships with test equipment companies are important to us because test equipment companies can design the use of our wafer probe cards into their equipment and provide us with the insight into their product plans. This cooperation allows us to offer wafer probe cards for use with the test equipment companies' products when they are introduced to the market as opposed to several months or more later, which would negatively impact our revenues. Our relationships with our customers and test equipment companies could deteriorate if they: become concerned about our ability to protect their intellectual property; become concerned with our ability to deliver quality products on a timely basis; develop their own solutions to address the need for testing improvement; implement chip designs that include enhanced built-in self-test capabilities; regard us as a competitor; introduce their own wafer probe card product; establish relationships with others in our industry; acquire or invest in a competitive wafer probe card manufacturer or enter into a business venture with a competitive wafer probe card manufacturer; or attempt to restrict our ability to enter into relationships with their competitors. Many of our customers and the test equipment companies we work with are large companies. The consequences of deterioration in our relationship with any of these companies could be exacerbated due to the significant influence these companies can exert in our markets. If our current relationships with our customers and test equipment companies deteriorate, or if we are unable to develop similar collaborative relationships with important customers and test equipment companies in the future, our long-term ability to produce commercially successful products could be impaired. Because we generally do not have a sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets, revenues in any quarter are substantially dependent upon customer orders received and fulfilled in that quarter. Our revenues are difficult to forecast because we generally do not have sufficient backlog of unfilled orders to meet our quarterly revenue targets at the beginning of a quarter. Rather, a substantial percentage of our revenues in any quarter depend upon customer orders for our wafer probe cards that we receive and fulfill in that quarter. Because our expense levels are based in part on our expectations as to future revenues and to a large extent are fixed in the short term, we might be unable to adjust 19 spending in time to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. Accordingly, any significant shortfall of revenues in relation to our expectations could hurt our operating results. We manufacture substantially all our products at our facilities in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California, and any disruption in the operations of these facilities or our customer's manufacturing facilities could adversely impact our business and operating results. Certain of our manufacturing processes and our customers' processes require sophisticated and expensive equipment and specially designed facilities, including semiconductor clean rooms. We manufacture the majority of our wafer probe cards at our facilities located in Livermore, San Jose, and Carlsbad, California. Any disruption in our manufacturing, whether due to contamination in our manufacturing process, technical or labor difficulties, destruction or damage from fire or earthquake, infrastructure failures such as power or water shortage or any other reason, could interrupt our operations, impair critical systems, disrupt communications with our customers and suppliers, and cause us to write off inventory, thereby potentially resulting in the loss of revenues. In addition, if the previous energy crises in California that resulted in disruptions in power supply and increases in utility costs were to recur, we might experience power interruptions and shortages, which could disrupt our manufacturing operations. This could subject us to loss of revenues as well as significantly higher costs of energy. Further, current and potential customers might not purchase our products if they perceive our lack of a fully operational alternate manufacturing facility to be a risk to their continuing source of supply. Similarly, any of these events, such as contamination, fire, power or water shortage and labor strike could interrupt our customer's operations thereby potentially resulting in the loss of revenues to our company. If we are unable to continue to reduce the time it takes for us to design and produce a wafer probe card, our growth could be impeded. Our customers continuously seek to reduce the time it takes them to introduce new products to market. The cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, coupled with changing demands for semiconductor devices, requires our customers to be flexible and highly adaptable to changes in the volume and mix of products they must produce. Each of those changes requires a new design and each new design requires a new wafer probe card. For some existing semiconductor devices, the manufacturers' volume and mix of product requirements are such that we are unable to design, manufacture and ship products to meet manufacturers' relatively short cycle time requirements. We have lost sales in the past where we were unable to meet a customer's required delivery schedule for wafer probe cards for a particular design. If we are unable to reduce the time it takes for us to design, manufacture and ship our products in response to the needs of our customers, our competitive position could be harmed and we could lose sales. If we are unable to grow design and manufacturing capacity in the event demand increases, our ability to respond to customer requirements could be challenged and our revenues could be negatively impacted. We obtain some of the components and materials we use in our products from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers, and the partial or complete loss of one of these suppliers could cause production delays and a substantial loss of revenues. We obtain some of the components and materials used in our products, such as printed circuit board assemblies, plating materials and ceramic substrates, from a sole source or a limited group of suppliers. Alternative sources are not currently available for sole source components and materials. Because we rely on purchase orders rather than long-term contracts with the majority of our suppliers, we cannot predict with certainty our ability to obtain components and materials in the longer term. A sole or limited source supplier could increase prices, which could lead to a decline in our gross margin. Our dependence upon sole or limited source suppliers exposes us to several other risks, including inability to obtain an adequate supply of materials, late deliveries and poor component quality. In addition, the ability of any of these suppliers to timely provide us with sufficient quality materials would be adversely affected if they are forced to reduce or discontinue operations due to financial difficulties. Disruption or termination of the supply of components or materials could delay shipments of our products, damage our customer relationships and reduce our revenues. For example, if we were unable to obtain an adequate supply of a component or material, we might have to use a substitute component or material, which could require us to make changes in our manufacturing process and could also require us to re-qualify impacted product at certain customers. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in receiving shipments from one or more of our suppliers, especially during periods of high demand for our products. If we cannot obtain an adequate supply of the components and materials we require, or do not receive them in a timely manner, we might be required to identify new suppliers. We might not be able to identify new suppliers on a timely basis or at all. We, as well as our customers, would also need to qualify any new suppliers. The lead-time required to identify and qualify new suppliers could affect our ability to timely ship our products and cause our operating results to suffer. Further, a sole or limited source supplier could require us to enter into non-cancelable purchase commitments, minimum volume purchases or pay in advance to ensure our source of supply. In an 20 industry downturn or in an environment in which growth is not at a level we projected or anticipated, commitments of this type could result in charges for excess inventory of parts. Further, if a customer's needs for a particular probe card design and purchase orders for those probe cards are spread out over several months as opposed to being placed at one time in a single purchase order, it may cause us to purchase excessive materials or components in light of minimum purchase requirements or to be unable to realize volume discounts for materials or components because of the lack of visibility into the customer's overall purchase plan. These purchase issues would require us to incur a greater cost of goods sold than we might otherwise realize. These issues are also magnified in those situations in which the supplied material or component is a custom component for a unique customer probe card design. Additionally, if we are unable to predict our component and materials needs accurately, or if our supply is disrupted, we might miss market opportunities by not being able to meet the demand for our products. Wafer probe cards that do not meet specifications or that contain defects could damage our reputation, decrease market acceptance of our technology, cause us to lose customers and revenues, and result in liability to us. The complexity and ongoing development of our wafer probe card manufacturing process, combined with increases in wafer probe card production volumes, have in the past and could in the future lead to design or manufacturing problems. For example, we have experienced the presence of contaminants in our plating baths, which have caused a decrease in our manufacturing yields or have resulted in unanticipated stress-related failures when our wafer probe cards are being used in the manufacturing test environment. This contamination problem caused a yield decline that, in turn, resulted in our inability to timely ship products to our customers. Manufacturing design errors such as the mis-wiring of a wafer probe card or the incorrect placement of probe contact elements have caused us to repeat manufacturing design steps. In addition to these examples, problems might result from a number of factors, including design defects, materials failure, failure of components manufactured by our suppliers to meet our specifications, contamination in the manufacturing environment, impurities in the materials used, and unknown sensitivities to process conditions such as temperature and humidity, and equipment failures. As a result, our products have in the past contained and might in the future contain undetected errors or defects. Any errors or defects could: cause lower than anticipated yields and lengthen delivery schedules; cause delays in product shipments; cause delays in new product introductions; cause us to incur warranty expenses; result in increased costs and diversion of development resources; cause us to incur increased charges due to unusable inventory; require design modifications; or decrease market acceptance or customer satisfaction with these products. The occurrence of any one or more of these events could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if any of our products fails to meet specifications when installed in the customer's test environment, or has reliability, quality or compatibility problems, our reputation could be damaged significantly and customers might be reluctant to buy our products, which could result in a decline in revenues, an increase in product returns or warranty costs and the loss of existing customers or the failure to attract new customers. For example, in mid-2013, we experienced certain supply chain and manufacturing challenges that impacted critical deliveries for a key DRAM customer in Japan in the third quarter. These delays and manufacturing challenges not only impacted in-quarter short-term revenue, but also resulted in our loss of future orders and required us to implement programs to re-establish ourselves as a key supplier to the customer and resulted in increased warranty costs. These consequences negatively impacted our operating results. Our customers use our products with test equipment and software in their manufacturing facilities. Our products must be compatible with the customers' equipment and software to form an integrated system. While we have designed our test capabilities and standards to replicate the actual test environment of our customers and continually work to improve our capabilities, it is possible that our wafer probe card will perform differently in the customers' actual test environments. If our wafer probe card does not function properly within a customer's specific test environment, we could be required to provide field application engineers to locate the problem, which can take time and resources. If the problem relates to our wafer probe cards, we might have to invest significant capital, manufacturing capacity and other resources to correct it. Our current or 21 potential customers also might seek to recover from us any losses resulting from defects or failures in our products. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. If our ability to forecast demand for our products or the predictability of our manufacturing yields deteriorates, we could incur higher inventory losses than we currently experience. Each semiconductor chip design requires a custom wafer probe card. Because our products are design-specific, demand for our products is difficult to forecast. Due to our customers' short delivery time requirements, we often design and procure materials and, at times, produce our products in anticipation of demand for our products rather than in response to an order. Our manufacturing yields, particularly for new DRAM and Flash memory wafer probe cards, have historically been unpredictable and consequently, we generally produce more components for probe cards, or actual probe cards, than forecasted demand. If we do not obtain orders as we anticipate, or if we produce excess inventory to compensate for unpredictable manufacturing yields, we could have excess or obsolete inventory for a specific customer design that we would not be able to sell to any other customer, which would likely result in inventory write-offs or material charges for scrap. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal and disclosure controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, which may adversely affect our business and reputation. In addition, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which may adversely impact the trading price of our securities. Effective internal and disclosure controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to prevent fraud and to operate successfully as a public company. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and reputation may be harmed. We regularly review and assess our internal controls over financial reporting and our disclosure