ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for the year ended December 31, 2021 included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K. As described in the section titled "Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements," the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates and beliefs. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, particularly in the section titled Risk Factors. Overview Our mission is to make it fast and easy for businesses to delight their customers and employees. We provide businesses of all sizes with modern SaaS products that are designed with the user in mind. Our primary product offerings include Freshdesk, our customer experience (CX) product; Freshservice, our IT service management (ITSM) product; and our customer relationship management (CRM) solution, which includes sales force and marketing automation. We generate revenue primarily from the sale of subscriptions for accessing our cloud-based software products over the contract term. Our subscription arrangements are available in monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, and annual plans, and we typically invoice for the full term in advance. We also sell professional services that include product configuration, data migration, systems integration, and training. Professional services revenue is recognized as services are performed. Our customer base and operations have scaled over time. Our total revenue was $114.6 million and $80.6 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing a year-over-year growth rate of 42%. We incurred operating losses of $47.1 million and $1.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and our net losses were $49.1 million and $2.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In September 2021, we completed our initial public offering (IPO), in which we issued and sold 31,350,000 shares of its newly authorized Class A common stock at $36.00 per share. We received net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion from the IPO, net of underwriters discounts. Upon completion of the IPO, the majority of shares of Class B common stock then outstanding were automatically converted to Class A common stock on a one-to-one basis, unless an option to remain as Class B common stock was elected by the holder. In addition, all shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock then outstanding were converted into 153,937,730 shares of common stock on a one-to-one basis and then reclassified into Class B common stock. Impact of COVID-19 In response to the COVID-19 pandemic that started in 2020, we undertook decisive and comprehensive actions to lessen the impact of the pandemic on our business, including implementing a fully remote, work from home policy across all our global offices, enacting new policies and operating procedures, including restrictions on Freshworks-related business travel and reductions of in-person events. Our partners, vendors and customers were also impacted by the pandemic. While most of our offices have reopened, many of our employees continue to work remotely, and we continue to operate in a combination of in-office and work-from-home environment. We believe that the pandemic has caused many of our customers and potential customers to accelerate their IT and digital investments benefiting businesses, like ours, that enable and enhance digital transformations. In addition, while we have seen a temporary reduction in certain operating expenses related to reduced business travel, deferred hiring in 25 certain areas, and the virtualization or postponement of in-person customer and employee events, in prior periods, we expect to continue to make significant investments as we expand our customer acquisition and retention efforts and return to in-person marketing events and normal business travel. Given our subscription-based business model, the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may not be fully reflected in our revenue until future periods. The extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our future operational and financial performance will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the outbreak, related public health measures, and their impact on the macroeconomy, our current and prospective customers, employees, and vendors. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and operations remains highly uncertain, and it is not possible for us to predict the duration and extent to which this will affect our business, including productivity of our employees in the United States and in India, where we have significant operations, future results of operations, and financial condition at this time. See the section titled Risk Factors for further discussion of the challenges and risks we have encountered and could encounter related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Key Business Metrics We monitor and review a number of metrics, including the following key metrics, to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate financial projections, and make strategic decisions. We believe these key business metrics provide meaningful supplemental information for management and investors in assessing our operating performance. March 31, 2022 2021 % Growth Number of customers contributing more than $5,000 in annual recurring revenue 15,639 12,332 27 % Net dollar retention rate 115 % 112 % Number of Customers Contributing More Than $5,000 in ARR We define our total customers contributing more than $5,000 in ARR as of a particular date as the number of business entities or individuals, represented by a unique domain or a unique email address, with one or more paid subscriptions to one or more of our products that contributed more than $5,000 in ARR. We believe that the number of customers that contribute more than $5,000 in ARR is an indicator of our success in attracting, retaining, and expanding with larger businesses. Net Dollar Retention Rate Our net dollar retention rate measures our ability to increase revenue across our existing customer base through expansion of users and products associated with a customer as offset by our churn and contraction in the number of users and products associated with a customer. To calculate net dollar retention rate as of a particular date, we first determine "Entering ARR," which is ARR from the population of our customers as of 12 months prior to the end of the reporting period. We then calculate the "Ending ARR" from the same set of customers as of the end of the reporting period. We then divide the Ending ARR by the Entering ARR to arrive at our net dollar retention rate. Ending ARR includes upsells, cross-sells, and renewals during the measurement period and is net of any contraction or attrition over this period. We expect our net dollar retention rate could fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including our expected growth, the level of penetration within our customer base, our ability to upsell and cross-sell products to existing customers, and our ability to retain our customers. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we believe the following non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating our operating performance: non-GAAP loss from operations, non-GAAP net loss, and free cash flow. We use these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe these non-GAAP 26 financial measures may be helpful to investors because they provide consistency and comparability with past financial performance. Non-GAAP financial measures have limitations in their usefulness to investors and should not be considered in isolation or as substitutes for financial information presented under GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures have no standardized meaning prescribed by GAAP and are not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. In addition, other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures differently or may use other measures to evaluate their performance, all of which could reduce the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures as tools for comparison. As a result, our non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only. We exclude the following items from one or more of our non-GAAP financial measures, including the related income tax effect of these adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense. We exclude stock-based compensation, which is a non cash expense, from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because we believe that excluding this expense provides meaningful supplemental information regarding operational performance. In particular, stock-based compensation expense is not comparable across companies given the variety of valuation methodologies and assumptions. Employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions. We exclude the amount of employer payroll taxes on equity awards from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures because they are dependent on our stock price at the time of vesting or exercise and other factors that are beyond our control and do not believe these expenses have a direct correlation to the operation of the business. Amortization of acquired intangibles. We exclude amortization of acquired intangibles, which is a non-cash expense, from certain of our non-GAAP financial measures. Our expenses for amortization of acquired intangibles are inconsistent in amount and frequency because they are significantly affected by the timing, size of acquisitions, and the allocation of purchase price. We exclude these amortization expenses because we do not believe these expenses have a direct correlation to the operation of our business. Non-GAAP Loss From Operations and Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP loss from operations as GAAP loss from operations, excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions, and amortization of acquired intangibles. We define non-GAAP net loss as GAAP net loss, excluding stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions, and amortization of acquired intangibles, net of their related tax effects. The following tables present a reconciliation of our GAAP loss from operations to our non-GAAP loss from operations and our GAAP net loss to our non-GAAP net loss for each of the periods presented (in thousands): Non-GAAP Loss from Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Loss from operations $ (47,124) $ (1,715) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 46,625 Employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions (692) Amortization of acquired intangibles 624 1,068 Non-GAAP loss from operations $ (567) $ (647) 27 Non-GAAP Net Loss Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net loss $ (49,059) $ (2,415) Non-GAAP adjustments: Stock-based compensation expense 46,625 Employer payroll taxes on employee stock transactions (692) Amortization of acquired intangibles 624 1,068 Income tax adjustments 381 Non-GAAP net loss $ (2,121) $ (1,347) Free Cash Flow We define free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized internal-use software costs. We believe that free cash flow is a useful indicator of liquidity as it measures our ability to generate cash from our core operations after purchases of property and equipment. Free cash flow is a measure to determine, among other things, cash available for strategic initiatives, including further investments in our business and potential acquisitions of businesses. The following table presents a reconciliation of free cash flow to net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable measure calculated in accordance with GAAP for each of the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,355 $ 7,777 Less: Purchases of property and equipment (1,397) (1,987) Capitalized internal-use software (1,344) (956) Free cash flow $ (1,386) $ 4,834 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (25,646) $ 15,750 Net cash (used in) financing activities $ (120,029) $ (7) Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue Substantially all of our revenue is derived from subscriptions, which is comprised of fees paid by customers for accessing our cloud-based software products during the term of the subscription. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the commencement date of each subscription, which is the date that the cloud-based software is made available to customers. Professional services revenue comprises less than 5% of total revenue and includes fees charged for product configuration, data migration, systems integration, and training. Professional services revenue is recognized as services are performed. Our subscription arrangements are available in monthly, quarterly, semi-annual, and annual plans, and we typically invoice for the full term in advance. Our payment terms generally require the customers to pay the invoiced amount in advance or within 30 days from the invoice date. Our professional services are generally billed in advance along with the related subscription arrangements. 28 Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel-related expenses (including salaries, related benefits, and stock-based compensation expense) for employees associated with our cloud-based infrastructure, payment gateway fees, voice, product support, and professional services organizations, as well as costs for hosting capabilities. Cost of revenue also includes third-party license fees, amortization of acquired technology intangibles, amortization of capitalized internal-use software, and allocation of general overhead costs such as facilities and information technology. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase in dollar amount as we invest additional resources in our cloud-based infrastructure and customer support and professional services organizations. However, our gross profit and gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to the timing and extent of our investments in third-party hosting capacity, expansion of our cloud-based infrastructure, and customer support, and professional services organizations, as well as the amortization of costs associated with capitalized internal-use software. Overhead Allocation We allocate shared costs, such as facilities costs (including rent, utilities, and depreciation on capital expenditures related to facilities shared by multiple departments), information technology costs, and certain administrative personnel costs to all departments based on headcount and location. Allocated shared costs are reflected in each of the expense categories described below, in addition to cost of revenue as described above. Operating Expenses Research and Development. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, related benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for engineering and product development employees, software license fees, rental of office premises, third-party product development services and consulting expenses, and depreciation expense for equipment used in research and development activities. We capitalize a portion of our research and development expenses that meet the criteria for capitalization of internal-use software. All other research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We believe that continued investment in our products is important for our growth, and as such, we expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase in dollar amount while varying as a percentage of revenue in the future. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, related benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our sales personnel, sales commissions for our sales force and reseller commissions for our channel sales partners, as well as costs associated with marketing activities, travel and entertainment costs, software license fees, and rental of office premises. Sales commissions that are considered incremental costs incurred to obtain contracts with customers are deferred and amortized over the expected benefit period of three years. Marketing activities include online lead generation, advertising, and promotional events. We expect to continue to make significant investments as we expand our customer acquisition and retention efforts and return to in-person marketing events and normal business travel as the impact of COVID-19 subsides. As a result, we expect that our sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase in dollar amount while varying as a percentage of revenue in the future. General and Administrative. General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, related benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for general and administrative personnel, third-party professional services fees; including consulting, legal, audit, and accounting services, travel and entertainment costs, accounting, legal, human resources, and recruiting personnel, costs of director and officer insurance, costs associated with acquisitions of businesses, software license fees, and rental of office premises. As a publicly traded company, we expect increases in expenses associated with ongoing compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), 29 professional services fees and consulting expenses, costs to broaden our IT related infrastructure, as well as additional costs for accounting, insurance, and investor relations. Our general and administrative expenses are expected to continue to increase in dollar amount for the foreseeable future, however, we expect it to decline as a percentage of revenue over the longer term. This percentage may fluctuate from period to period depending upon the timing and amount of our general and administrative expenses. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net primarily consists of interest income from our investment portfolios, amortization of premium or discount on marketable securities, and foreign currency gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state net deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our effective tax rate is affected by tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions, as well as non-deductible expenses, such as stock-based compensation, and changes in our valuation allowance. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue $ 114,637 $ 80,587 Cost of revenue (1) 22,395 16,693 Gross profit 92,242 63,894 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 30,717 15,395 Sales and marketing (1) 71,466 42,508 General and administrative (1) 37,183 7,706 Total operating expenses 139,366 65,609 Loss from operations (47,124) (1,715) Interest and other income, net 602 373 Loss before income taxes (46,522) (1,342) Provision for income taxes 2,537 1,073 Net loss $ (49,059) $ (2,415) __________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Cost of revenue $ 1,526 $ Research and development 8,309 Sales and marketing 12,536 General and administration 24,254 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 46,625 $ 30 The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented, as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 20 21 Gross profit 80 79 Operating expense: Research and development 27 19 Sales and marketing 62 53 General administrative 32 9 Total operating expenses 121 81 Loss from operations (41) (2) Interest and other income, net Loss before income taxes (41) (2) Provision for income taxes 2 1 Net loss (43) % (3) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % Subscription services $ 111,397 $ 77,822 $ 33,575 43 % Professional services 3,240 2,765 475 17 % Total revenue $ 114,637 $ 80,587 $ 34,050 42 % Revenue increased by $34.1 million, or 42%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily driven by increases in additional agents enabled by our customers under their account and sales of products to existing customers, as well as the addition of new customers. Our net dollar retention rate of 115% as of March 31, 2022 reflects the expansion within existing customers and the sale of additional products to these customers. The majority of our revenue continues to be generated from subscription services. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 22,395 $ 16,693 $ 5,702 34 % Gross Margin 80 % 79 % Cost of revenue increased by $5.7 million, or 34%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily due to increases of $2.5 million in third-party hosting costs, $1.6 million in personnel-related costs due to annual compensation adjustments and higher headcount, $1.5 million in stock-based compensation expense, and $0.9 million in software license fees, partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in cloud voice service costs. Our gross margin increased to 80% for the three months ended March 31, 31 2022 from 79% in the same period of the prior year, as we increased our revenue and realized benefits from economies of scale primarily related to our third-party hosting costs. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 30,717 $ 15,395 $ 15,322 100 % Sales and marketing 71,466 42,508 28,958 68 % General and administrative 37,183 7,706 29,477 383 % Total operating expenses $ 139,366 $ 65,609 $ 73,757 112 % The increases in our operating expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, were primarily headcount driven in order to support the growth of our business, as well as stock-based compensation expense we recognized subsequent to the IPO. Research and Development Research and development expense increased by $15.3 million, or 100%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily driven by increases of $8.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, $6.1 million in personnel-related costs due to annual compensation adjustments and higher headcount, and $0.7 million in professional services fees. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expense increased by $29.0 million, or 68%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily driven by increases of $12.5 million in stock-based compensation expense, $12.0 million in personnel-related costs due to annual compensation adjustments and higher headcount, $1.4 million in advertising, branding, and event costs, $1.3 million in software license fees, and $0.7 million in reseller commissions. General and Administrative General and administrative expense increased by $29.5 million, or 383%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This was primarily driven by increases of $24.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, $3.4 million in personnel-related costs due to annual compensation adjustments and higher headcount, and $1.9 million in directors and officers insurance. Interest and Other Income, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Interest income $ 806 $ 703 $ 103 15 % Other income, net (204) (330) 126 (38) % Interest and other income, net $ 602 $ 373 $ 229 61 % Interest and other income, net increased for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to interest income earned on higher balances maintained in our marketable securities portfolios. 32 Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (dollars in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 2,537 $ 1,073 $ 1,464 137 % We are subject to federal and state income taxes in the United States and taxes in foreign jurisdictions. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, we recorded provision for income taxes of $2.5 million and $1.1 million on loss before taxes of $46.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively. The increase in tax expense was primarily due to a higher tax expense of $0.8 million from our profitable foreign jurisdictions. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, we had cash and cash equivalents of $603.5 million and marketable securities of $594.3 million. Our marketable securities consist primarily of U.S. treasury securities, U.S. government agency securities, and corporate debt securities. Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily with financing through the issuance of redeemable convertible preferred and common stock to investors. In September 2021, we completed our IPO that generated net proceeds of approximately $1.1 billion. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $3.3 billion. Our operating activities provided cash inflows of $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Our material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations consist of our operating leases and other service subscription agreements (as described in Contractual Obligations and Commitments below). We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of our revenue growth, the timing and extent of spending on research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced product offerings, and other business initiatives and the continuing market adoption of our products. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing in connection with such activities. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness may have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict our operational flexibility. Any additional equity or convertible debt financing may be dilutive to stockholders. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise such financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,355 $ 7,777 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (25,646) 15,750 Net cash (used in) financing activities (120,029) (7) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $1.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 reflects our net loss of $49.1 million, adjusted for non-cash items such as stock-based compensation of $46.6 million, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs of $4.3 million, depreciation and amortization of $3.0 million, non-cash lease expense of $1.4 million, and net cash outflows of $6.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities were due to increases in operating assets of $8.7 million in prepaid expenses and other assets and $5.6 million in deferred contract acquisition costs; 33 and decreases in operating liabilities of $5.0 million in accrued and other liabilities, $2.7 million in operating lease liabilities, and $2.1 million in accounts payable; offset by an increase of $14.2 million in deferred revenue, and a decrease of $3.2 million in accounts receivable. Net cash provided by operating activities of $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 reflects our net loss of $2.4 million, adjusted for non-cash items such as depreciation and amortization of $3.2 million, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs of $2.7 million, and net cash inflows of $4.1 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflows from changes in operating liabilities were due to an increase of $17.0 million in deferred revenue and a decrease of $3.3 million in prepaid expenses and other assets, offset by increases in operating assets of $4.8 million in deferred contract acquisition costs and $2.8 million in accounts receivable, and a decrease of $9.3 million in accrued and other liabilities. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $25.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 consisted of $22.9 million in purchases of marketable securities, net of proceeds from maturities and sales, $1.4 million in purchases of property and equipment and $1.3 million in capitalized internal-use software. Net cash provided by investing activities of $15.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 consisted of $18.6 million in proceeds from the maturities and sales of marketable securities, net of purchases, partially offset by $2.0 million in purchases of property and equipment, and $1.0 million in capitalized internal-use software. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $120.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily consisted of $119.9 million in payment of withholding taxes on net share settlement of equity awards. The withholding taxes paid includes the taxes related to the settlement and release of all remaining RSUs subject to the terms of certain lock-up agreements with the underwriters of the IPO that expired in February 2022. Net cash used in financing activities was not material for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Remaining Performance Obligations on Customer Contracts We generally enter into subscription agreements with our customers on monthly, annual, or multi-year terms and invoice customers in advance in either monthly or annual installments. A small portion of our annual contracts may have billing terms that are different from their subscription terms, and our multi-year contracts are invoiced annually. As of March 31, 2022, remaining performance obligations totaled $251.6 million, which comprised $174.4 million of deferred revenue and $77.2 million of unbilled amounts. We expect that the value of the remaining performance obligations will change from one period to another for several reasons, including new contracts, timing of renewals, cancellations, contract modifications and foreign currency fluctuations. We believe that fluctuations in remaining performance obligations are not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenue and we do not utilize it as a key management metric internally. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of operating lease obligations for office space and contractual obligations under third-party cloud infrastructure agreements and service subscription agreements. As of March 31, 2022, our estimated future contractual obligations totaled $165.1 million, of which $31.5 million and $133.6 million were operating lease commitments and other contractual obligations, respectively. See Note 7Leases and Note 8Commitments and Contingencies in the condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information. 34 Indemnification Agreements In the ordinary course of business, we enter into agreements of varying scope and terms pursuant to which we agree to indemnify customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, losses arising out of the breach of such agreements, services to be provided by us, or from data breaches or intellectual property infringement claims made by third parties. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain officers and employees that will require us, among other things, to indemnify them against certain liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors, officers, or employees. No demands have been made upon us to provide indemnification under such agreements and there are no claims that we are aware of that could have a material effect on our condensed consolidated balance sheets, condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, or condensed consolidated statements of cash flows. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates, assumptions and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Different assumptions and judgments would change the estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, which, in turn, could change the results from those reported. We evaluate our estimates, assumptions, and judgments on an ongoing basis. There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates during the three months ended March 31, 2022 as compared to those disclosed in our "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 23, 2022, except as below: Leases The Company determines whether an arrangement constitutes a lease and records lease liabilities and right-of-use (ROU) assets on its condensed consolidated balance sheets at the lease commencement date. Lease liabilities are measured based on the present value of the total lease payments not yet paid, discounted based on either the rate implicit in the lease or the Company's incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is based on an estimate of the Company's expected unsecured borrowing rate for its notes, adjusted for tenor and collateralized security features. We estimate the incremental borrowing rate using yields for maturities that are in line with the duration of the lease payments. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information.