Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. Safe Harbor Statement. Statements made in this Form 10-K which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements with respect to the goals, plan objectives, intentions, expectations, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business of FHA and Interim, including, without limitation, (i) our ability to gain a larger share of the home healthcare industry in our chosen markets, our ability to continue to develop products and services acceptable to that industry, our ability to retain our business relationships, and our ability to raise capital and the growth of home healthcare industry, and (ii) statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may", "would", "could", "should", "expects", "projects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plans", "intends", "targets" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond FHA's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following, in addition to those contained in our reports on file with the SEC: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which FHA conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, changes in the home healthcare industry, the development of services that may be superior to the services offered by FHA, demand for home healthcare services, competition, changes in the quality or composition of FHAs services, our ability to develop new services, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting FHAs operations, services and prices. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. FHA does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Company Overview Based in Casper, Wyoming and Billings, Montana, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Interim Health Care of Wyoming, has been serving its community for 19 years, and Interim is part of the home health segment of the healthcare industry, providing a wide range of visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. It is one of the 300 home health agencies that comprise Interim Health Care, the largest home healthcare franchise in the United States. As the census (number of patients utilizing facilities) in the hospitals fluctuates, we are taking the necessary steps to position ourselves for the ups and downs of the census for these facilities. Our home healthcare service continued to be strong and provided a consistent stream of revenue through 2013, while our staffing business saw fluctuations throughout 2013 with a downturn during the fourth quarter of 2013. We experience growth in revenue in our home healthcare business in both Billings, Montana Casper, Wyoming. Our home healthcare services continued to be strong and provided a consistent stream of revenue during 2013. We continued to see downward pressure on reimbursement rates throughout 2013. In 2014, as with most businesses in todays economy, we are approaching our healthcare business with some optimism. As for our operations in Billings, Montana and its focus on the medical staffing industry, we anticipate a similar level in the demand for our medical staffing services during the upcoming year. As such, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the realm of services we offer. Promotional activities are being managed as the offices experience fluctuations in the day-to-day operations and as we embark on new business opportunities. Our home healthcare business continues to be a substantial revenue generator for our Company as our country's population ages and new methods of patient data capture become critical components for delivering high quality, affordable healthcare services in a patient's home. Although this has been a gradual process, we believe we have positioned our business to handle the fluctuations of the staffing business that we can encounter, and we will continue to look to obtain additional business that can deliver higher gross margins during 2014. We record all revenue and expenses and provide all services under one umbrella. Below is a description of our Home Healthcare and Staffing operations. 6 Description of Services Home Care Through trained health care professionals, FHA provides home care services including senior care and pediatric nursing; physical, occupational and speech therapy. FHA offices deliver quality home care and treat each patient with genuine compassion, kindness and respect. FHA provides health care professionals at all skill levels, including registered nurses, therapists, LPN's and certified home health aides. FHA derives is revenue from multiple payer sources. These include Medicare, Medicaid, Insurance, Medicaid LTW, and Private Payers. Because our officers are located in areas that do not contain a large population base (less than 200,000 residents), we continually explore opportunities to increase our revenue with our current payer sources and expand through new sources of revenue. The healthcare team is utilized across all payer sources, including staffing services. Our customer base comes from referrals from hospitals, rehab facilities, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and previous patients. In additional to our professional team, we employ a management team at each facility to handle the day to day direction of the office. This is provided by our Administrators. We also have a Director of Nursing in each location. This person is responsible for the day to day oversight of the service providers and ensuring the certified professionals obtain the necessary training to maintain their certificates as well as the training necessary to be in compliance with all regulating organizations. Staffing FHA offices provide nurses, nurse aides and management services to hospitals, prisons, schools, corporations and other health care facilities. FHA success is based on our ability to recruit the best health care professionals and the responsiveness of our local managers to fill the needs of our clients in a timely manner. Additionally, we work with our clients should they decide they would like to hire our service professional on a full time basis. Another key to our success is the personal relationship that our management and sales team build with each of our existing and new clients. As noted previously, in order to reduce turnover of our service team by providing as many hours as possible, similar to the hours of a full-time employee, we utilize the same service team members across all payer sources. As each of our businesses is located in smaller based population areas of the country, the competition is significantly heightened and the relationships maintained with our clients become very critical to the continued success of our operations. As we provide diversified services and accept payments from multiple payer sources, we are not heavily dependent on a few clients in order for our business to be successful. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition - Revenue is recognized when earned. The Company's revenue recognition policies are in compliance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 605, 985 Software Revenue Recognition and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and 104. The Company recognizes revenue from providing healthcare services when the services are provided and collection is probable. Revenue from non-recurring programming, consulting service, support arrangements and training programs are recognized when the services are provided. Accounts Receivable We evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers based on their financial information, if available, as well as information obtained from suppliers and past experiences with customers. In some instances, we require new customers to make prepayments. Accounts receivable consist of trade receivables arising in the normal course of business. Any allowance established is subject to judgment and estimates made by management. The Company determines the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. We established an allowance for doubtful accounts of $20,200 and $20,200 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Goodwill and Definite-life intangible assets - The Company accounts for Goodwill and definite-life intangible assets in accordance with provisions of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 350, Intangibles, Goodwill and Other. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead are tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of Topic 350. Impairment losses arising from this impairment test, if any, are included in operating expenses in the period of impairment. Topic 350 requires that definite intangible assets with estimable useful lives be amortized over their respective estimated useful lives, and reviewed for impairment in accordance with Topic 360, criteria for recognition of an impairment of Long-Lived Assets. Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2013 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2012 Fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 compared to fiscal year ended December 31, 2012: During 2013, FHA recorded revenues of $4,421,734, a 1% increase over revenues of $4,381,518 for the same period in 2012. The increase for 2013 reflects an increase in revenue driven by the 9.7% increase in our home health services offset by a 17% decrease in our staffing business. In 2013, cost of services totaled $3,134,171, a 6% increase as compared to $2,955,574 in 2012. This is a reflection of the costs associated with a shift in mix of services with the decrease in staffing and an increase in home health services. FHA posted a gross profit of $1,287,563 during 2013, versus a gross profit of $1,425,944 for 2012, a decrease of 9.7%. FHA recorded total operating expenses of $1,402,786 during 2013, a 40% decrease as compared to operating expenses of $2,339,437 in the same period of 2012. The decrease is due to the recording of the non-cash charge of $1,109,852 for goodwill impairment. General and administrative expenses totaled $614,286 in 2013 versus $359,498 in 2012, an increase of 71%, due to increases for liability insurance, legal and accounting fees. Salaries, wages and related expenses decreased to $701,862 in 2013 from $783,095 in 2012, due to bonuses paid to executive management during 2012. Selling expenses in 2013 were $86,638 versus $86,992 in 2012. FHAs net loss available to common shareholders was $19,138 in 2013. This represents a $558,819 decrease from our net loss of $577,957 in 2012. The decrease is due to the recording of impairment of goodwill of $1,109,852 in the fourth quarter of 2012, offset by the loss in gross margin and incremental consulting and insurance costs incurred in 2013. Liquidity and Capital Resources. 2013 compared to 2012 Cash on hand was $1,073,686 at December 31, 2013, an increase of $865,228 over the $208,458 on hand at December 31, 2012. Cash used by operations for 2013, was $144,772, a decrease of $187,990 over the $43,218 cash provided by operations for 2012. This decrease was driven from our operating results with lower margins than in the previous year coupled with slow collections on accounts receivable. We continue to work on collection efforts to ensure timely receipt of cash. Cash provided by financing activities during 2013 was $1,010,000 from the issuance of a convertible note payable, less the payment of offering costs of $0. Cash used by financing activities during 2012 was $369,905 for payments to the former parent company. Contractual Obligations Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have operating leases for certain facilities, but otherwise do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources. 7