Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Safe Harbor Statement . Statements made in this Form 10-Q which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements with respect to the goals, plan objectives, intentions, expectations, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business of the Company, including, without limitation, (i) our ability to gain a larger share of the home healthcare industry, our ability to continue to develop services acceptable to our industry, our ability to retain our business relationships, and our ability to raise capital and the growth of the home healthcare industry, and (ii) statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may", "would", "could", "should", "expects", "projects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plans", "intends", "targets", "tend" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond the Company's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following, in addition to those contained in the Company's reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which the Company conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, changes in the home healthcare industry, the development of services that may be superior to the services offered by the Company, competition, changes in the quality or composition of the Company's services, our ability to develop new services, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting the Companys operations, services and prices. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Business Highlights Based in Casper, Wyoming, and Billings, Montana, FHAs subsidiary, Interim Healthcare of Wyoming, Inc., a Wyoming corporation (Interim), is an independent franchisee of Interim HealthCare that has been serving its community for over 20 years and is providing a wide range of visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. It is one of the 300 independent home health agencies that comprise the Interim HealthCare network. Our business consists of providing healthcare services for those in need. We record all revenue and expenses and provide all services under one umbrella. Below is a description of our Home Healthcare and Staffing operations. Our business is driven by a number of different factors and fluctuates significantly as they change. As the census (number of patients utilizing facilities) in the hospitals fluctuates, we are taking the necessary steps to position ourselves for the ups and downs of the census for these facilities. Our home healthcare service continued to generate the majority of our revenue during the first quarter of 2018. As the need for labor diminishes with the gas and oil wells shutting down in Colorado, our business has seen dramatic negative impacts with the resulting decrease in population, both in number of clients as well as available personnel. As the price of gas decreases, the drilling operations stop, and the population moves to another area to support themselves. Our operations are also heavily influenced by increases in minimum wage as well as starting wages being offered by all employers in the region. With the multiple businesses paying higher starting wages, we have seen a decrease in individuals wanting and needing to take employment in the healthcare profession. 13 We have also seen the impact of turn-over in senior management with our clients. As these positions are filled by new personnel, their decisions on utilization of services impacts our businesses, and we have seen a significant decrease in the utilization of our services. During the first quarter of 2018, FHA experienced a 22% decrease in revenue over the first quarter of 2017. This was driven by a decrease both our Casper, Wyoming and Billings, Montana businesses. During the first quarter of 2018, we have seen a significant decrease in the utilization staffing services in Billings, Montana as facilities that use our services receive directives to remove and reduce the use of staffing services. Weve also seen significant decreases within our home healthcare services. As for our operations, we anticipate the trends seen in the first quarter of 2018 to continue into the second quarter of 2018. We anticipate a continued slowing of the use of our staffing services. We also anticipate a slowing of the utilization of our home healthcare business in Casper and Billings. As such, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the realm of services we offer. Promotional activities and operations are being managed as the offices experience fluctuations in the day-to-day activities and as we embark on new business opportunities. Home Healthcare Through trained health care professionals, the Company provides home care services including senior care and pediatric nursing; physical, occupational and speech therapy. The Company offices deliver quality home care and treat each patient with genuine compassion, kindness and respect. The Company provides health care professionals at all skill levels, including registered nurses, therapists, LPN's and certified home health aides. FHA derives is revenue from multiple payer sources. These include Medicare, Medicaid, Insurance, Medicaid LTW, and Private Payers. Because our offices are located in areas that do not contain a large population base (less than 200,000 residents), we continually explore opportunities to increase our revenue with our current payer sources and expand through new sources of revenue. The healthcare team is utilized across all payer sources, including staffing services. Our customer base comes from referrals from hospitals, rehab facilities, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and previous patients. In additional to our professional team, we employ a management team at each facility to handle the day to day operations of the office. This is completed by our Administrators in each location. We also have a Director of Nursing in each location. This person is responsible for the day to day oversight of the service providers and ensuring the certified professionals obtain the necessary training to maintain their certificates as well as the training necessary to be in compliance with all regulating organizations. Staffing Interim offices provide nurses, nurse aides and management services to hospitals, prisons, schools, corporations and other health care facilities. Interims success is based on our ability to recruit the best health care professionals and the responsiveness of our local managers to fill the needs of our clients in a timely manner. Additionally, we work with our clients should they decide they would like to hire our service professionals on a full time basis. Another key to our success is the personal relationship that our management and sales team build with each of our existing and new clients. As noted previously, in order to reduce turnover of our service team by providing as many hours as possible, similar to the hours of a full-time employee, we utilize the same service team members across all payer sources. As each of our businesses is located in smaller based population areas of the country, the competition is significantly heightened and the relationships maintained with our clients become very critical to the continued success of our operations. As we provide diversified services and accept payments from multiple payer sources, we are not heavily dependent on a few clients in order for our business to be successful. 14 Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 During the three months ended March 31, 2018, FHA recorded revenues of $772,258, a 22% decrease over revenues of $995,428 for the same period in 2017. The decrease for 2018 was driven by a significant decrease in the use of our staffing services in Billings, Montana, and our home healthcare services in Casper, Wyoming and Billings, Montana. For the quarter ended March 31, 2018, cost of services totaled $541,459, a 23% decrease as compared to $701,485 in the comparable period of 2017. This is a reflection of the costs associated with the decrease in revenue. FHA posted a gross profit of $230,799 during the first quarter 2018, versus a gross profit of $293,943 for the first quarter of 2017, a decrease of 21%. FHA recorded total operating expenses of $323,022 during the first quarter of 2018, an 10% decrease as compared to operating expenses of $360,153 in the same period of 2017. General and administrative expenses totaled $109,916 in the first quarter 2018 versus $125,929 in the first quarter 2017, a decrease of 13%, due to a decrease in legal fees and professional fees. Consulting fees decreased from $47,299 to $42,758 when comparing the first quarter of 2017 versus 2018. Salaries, wages and related expenses decreased to $159,805 in the first quarter of 2018 from $169,841 in 2017, a decrease of 6%, driven by the reduction of personnel. Selling expenses in the first quarter of 2018 were $10,543 versus $17,084 in the comparable quarter of 2017, driven by a decrease in advertising. FHAs net loss was $111,645 for the first quarter of 2018. This represents a $40,708 increase from our net loss of $70,937 in the first quarter of 2017. A portion of this change was due the recording of $20,667 gain on the derivative instruments, in the first quarter of 2017, as compared to $6,158 in the 2018 period. Liquidity and Capital Resources . Cash on hand was $27,117 at March 31, 2018, a decrease of $130,955 from the $158,072 on hand at December 31, 2017. Cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018, was $173,073, versus cash used in operation of $89,664 for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase is a result of the first quarter increase of accounts receivables and our results of operations in our Casper and Billings locations. The Company has insufficient cash to finance operations and continues to incur losses and accumulated deficit and has a short-term note payable in default in excess of anticipated cash. These factors raise substantial doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern. There is no assurance that the Company will be successful in achieving profitable operations or finding additional equity or debt financing. During April 2018, an officer of the Company advanced $13,000 to the Company for operating purposes.