Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Form 10-K. Safe Harbor Statement. Statements made in this Form 10-K which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements with respect to the goals, plan objectives, intentions, expectations, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business of FHA, FHS and Interim, including, without limitation, (i) our ability to gain a larger share of the home healthcare industry in our chosen markets, our ability to continue to develop products and services acceptable to that industry, our ability to retain our business relationships, and our ability to raise capital and the growth of home healthcare industry, and (ii) statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may", "would", "could", "should", "expects", "projects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plans", "intends", "targets" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond FHA's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following, in addition to those contained in our reports on file with the SEC: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which FHA conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, changes in the home healthcare industry, the development of services that may be superior to the services offered by FHA, demand for home healthcare services, competition, changes in the quality or composition of FHAs services, our ability to develop new services, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting FHAs operations, services and prices. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. FHA does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Company Overview Based in Casper, Wyoming and Billings, Montana, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Interim Health Care of Wyoming, has been serving its community for over 20 years, and Interim is part of the home health segment of the healthcare industry, providing a wide range of visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. It is one of the 300 home health agencies that comprise Interim Health Care, the largest home healthcare franchise in the United States. As the census (number of patients utilizing facilities) in the hospitals fluctuates, we continue to take steps to position ourselves for the ups and downs of the census for these facilities. Our home healthcare service, while down during 2016, continued to provide a consistent stream of revenue through 2016, while our staffing business saw minimal growth in 2016. We experienced a decline in revenue in our home healthcare business in both Billings, Montana and Casper, Wyoming. We continued to see downward pressure on reimbursement rates throughout 2016, and competition continues to increase from small startup healthcare agencies and providers. 11 In 2017, we are approaching our healthcare business by re-evaluating each payer source, competition and focusing our marketing on higher margin opportunities. As for our operations in Billings, Montana and its focus on the medical staffing industry, we anticipate a similar level in the demand for our medical staffing services during the upcoming year. As such, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the realm of services we offer. Promotional activities are being managed as the offices experience fluctuations in the day-to-day operations and as we embark on new business opportunities. Our home healthcare business continues to be the revenue generator for our Company as our country's population ages and new methods of patient data capture become critical components for delivering high quality, affordable healthcare services in a patient's home. Although this has been a gradual process, we believe we have positioned our business to handle the fluctuations of the staffing business that we can encounter, and we will continue to look to obtain additional business that can deliver higher gross margins during 2017. We record all revenue and expenses and provide all services under one umbrella. Below is a description of our Home Healthcare and Staffing operations. Description of Services Home Care Through trained health care professionals, FHA provides home care services including senior care and pediatric nursing; physical, occupational and speech therapy. FHA offices deliver quality home care and treat each patient with genuine compassion, kindness and respect. FHA provides health care professionals at all skill levels, including registered nurses, therapists, LPN's and certified home health aides. FHA derives its revenue from multiple payer sources. These include Medicare, Medicaid, Insurance, Medicaid LTW, and Private Payers. Because our offices are located in areas that do not contain a large population base (less than 200,000 residents), we continually explore opportunities to increase our revenue with our current payer sources and expand through new sources of revenue. The healthcare team is utilized across all payer sources, including staffing services. Our customer base comes from referrals from hospitals, rehab facilities, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and previous patients. In additional to our professional team, we employ a management team at each facility to handle the day to day direction of the office. This is provided by our Administrators. We also have a Director of Nursing in each location. This person is responsible for the day to day oversight of the service providers and ensuring the certified professionals obtain the necessary training to maintain their certificates as well as the training necessary to be in compliance with all regulating organizations. Staffing FHA offices provide nurses, nurse aides and management services to hospitals, prisons, schools, corporations and other health care facilities. FHA success is based on our ability to recruit the best health care professionals and the responsiveness of our local managers to fill the needs of our clients in a timely manner. Additionally, we work with our clients should they decide they would like to hire our service professional on a full time basis. Another key to our success is the personal relationship that our management and sales team build with each of our existing and new clients. As noted previously, in order to reduce turnover of our service team by providing as many hours as possible, similar to the hours of a full-time employee, we utilize the same service team members across all payer sources. As each of our businesses is located in smaller based population areas of the country, the competition is significantly heightened and the relationships maintained with our clients become very critical to the continued success of our operations. As we provide diversified services and accept payments from multiple payer sources, we are not heavily dependent on a few clients in order for our business to be successful. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition - Revenue is recognized when earned. The Company's revenue recognition policies are in compliance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 605, 985 Software Revenue Recognition and the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101 and 104. 12 The Company recognizes revenue from providing healthcare services when the services are provided and collection is probable. Revenue from non-recurring programming, consulting service, support arrangements and training programs are recognized when the services are provided. Accounts Receivable We evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers based on their financial information, if available, as well as information obtained from suppliers and past experiences with customers. In some instances, we require new customers to make prepayments. Accounts receivable consist of trade receivables arising in the normal course of business. Any allowance established is subject to judgment and estimates made by management. The Company determines the allowance based on known troubled accounts, historical experience, and other currently available evidence. We established an allowance for doubtful accounts of $20,200 and $20,200 at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Results of Operations. Year Ended December 31, 2016 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2015 Fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 compared to fiscal year ended December 31, 2015: During 2016, FHA recorded revenues of $3,840,132, a 4% decrease over revenues of $4,004,386 for the same period in 2015. The decrease for 2016 reflects the impact of competition, needs for our services throughout the year, as well as the turnover experience in our administrator position and staff levels during 2016. In 2016, cost of services totaled $2,915,200, a 7% increase as compared to $2,734,041 in 2015. This is a reflection of the increase personnel to service our client base due to turnover combined with personnel levels not being properly managed during 2016 within our Casper, Wyoming location. We also experience in increase in personnel costs associate with the increased revenue obtained with our staffing business in Billings, Montana. As a result, FHA posted a gross profit of $924,932 during 2016, versus a gross profit of $1,270,345 for 2015, a decrease of 27%. FHA recorded total operating expenses of $1,317,987 during 2016, an 8% decrease as compared to operating expenses of $1,431,335 in the same period of 2015. General and administrative expenses totaled $542,592 in 2016 versus $665,117 in 2015, a decrease of 18%, due to a decrease in consulting fees. Salaries, wages and related expenses increased to $711,593 in 2016 from $638,112 in 2015, due to increased wages paid to management personnel during 2016. Selling expenses in 2016 were $63,802 versus $138,106 in 2015 due to decreased cost for investor relation services. FHAs net loss available to common shareholders was $283,673 in 2016. This represents a $34,354 decrease in profitability from our net loss of $249,319 in 2015. Liquidity and Capital Resources. 2016 compared to 2015 Cash on hand was $206,352 at December 31, 2016, a decrease of $274,763 over the $481,115 on hand at December 31, 2015. Cash used by operations for 2016, was $274,763, a decrease of $37,315 over the $312,078 cash used by operations for 2015. This decrease in cash used by operations was driven from our operating results coupled with a decrease in our accounts receivable balance at year end 2016 compared to 2015. Cash on hand at December 31, 2016 is not sufficient to sustain operations for the next twelve months. While there can be no guarantees, the Company believes it has sufficient accounts receivable balances to meet short term obligations, and will make necessary changes to operations to meet long term operating capital requirements. Contractual Obligations Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 13 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have operating leases for certain facilities, but otherwise do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources.