Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Safe Harbor Statement . Statements made in this Form 10-Q which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements with respect to the goals, plan objectives, intentions, expectations, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business of the Company, including, without limitation, (i) our ability to gain a larger share of the home healthcare industry, our ability to continue to develop services acceptable to our industry, our ability to retain our business relationships, and our ability to raise capital and the growth of the home healthcare industry, and (ii) statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may", "would", "could", "should", "expects", "projects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plans", "intends", "targets", "tend" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond the Company's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following, in addition to those contained in the Company's reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which the Company conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, changes in the home healthcare industry, the development of services that may be superior to the services offered by the Company, competition, changes in the quality or composition of the Company's services, our ability to develop new services, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting the Companys operations, services and prices. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Business Highlights Based in Casper, Wyoming, and Billings, Montana, FHAs wholly-owned subsidiary, Interim Healthcare of Wyoming, Inc., a Wyoming corporation (Interim), is an independent franchisee of Interim HealthCare that has been serving its community for 18 years and is part of the fast-growing home health segment of the healthcare industry, providing a wide range of visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. It is one of the 300 independent home health agencies that comprise the Interim HealthCare network. Our business consists of providing healthcare services for those in need. We record all revenue and expenses and provide all services under one umbrella. Below is a description of our Home Healthcare and Staffing operations. As the census (number of patients utilizing facilities) in the hospitals fluctuates, we are taking the necessary steps to position ourselves for the ups and downs of the census for these facilities. Our home healthcare service continued to be strong and provided a consistent stream of revenue during the first quarter of 2013. During 2013, we saw the benefit of our positioning over the past three years. We experienced significant growth in revenue as a result of the continued utilization of our Staffing services in Billings, Montana as well as continued growth in our home healthcare business in both Casper, Wyoming and Billings, Montana. Our home healthcare services continued to be strong and provided a consistent stream of revenue in the first quarter of 2013. During the first quarter of 2013, FHA experienced a 20% increase in revenue over the first quarter of 2012. This was driven by an increased use in our staffing services in our Billings location coupled with increase in our homecare services in both locations. In 2013, as with most businesses in todays economy, we are approaching our healthcare business with some optimism. As for our operation in Billings, Montana and its focus on the medical staffing industry, we anticipate a modest increase in the demand for our medical staffing services during the remainder of 2013. As such, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the realm of services we offer. Promotional activities are being managed as the offices experience fluctuations in the day-to-day operations and as we embark on new business opportunities. Our home healthcare business continues to be a substantial revenue generator for our Company as our country's population ages and new methods of patient data capture become critical components for delivering high quality, affordable healthcare services in a patient's home. Although this has been a gradual process, we continue to build a solid business that will offer a complimentary package of new technology and traditional services. Home Healthcare Through trained health care professionals, FHA provides home care services including senior care and pediatric nursing; physical, occupational and speech therapy. FHA offices deliver quality home care and treat each patient with genuine compassion, kindness and respect. FHA provides health care professionals at all skill levels, including registered nurses, therapists, LPN's and certified home health aides. FHA derives is revenue from multiple payer sources. These include Medicare, Medicaid, Insurance, Medicaid LTW, and Private Payers. Because our officers are located in areas that do not contain a large population base (less than 200,000 residents), we continually explore opportunities to increase our revenue with our current payer sources and expand through new sources of revenue. The healthcare team is utilized across all payer sources, including staffing services. Our customer base comes from referrals from hospitals, rehab facilities, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and previous patients. In additional to our professional team, we employ a management team at each facility to handle the day to day direction of the office. This is provided by our Administrators. We also have a Director of Nursing in each location. This person is responsible for the day to day oversight of the service providers and ensuring the certified professionals obtain the necessary training to maintain their certificates as well as the training necessary to be in compliance with all regulating organizations. Staffing FHA offices provide nurses, nurse aides and management services to hospitals, prisons, schools, corporations and other health care facilities. FHAs success is based on our ability to recruit the best health care professionals and the responsiveness of our local managers to fill the needs of our clients in a timely manner. Additionally, we work with our clients should they decide they would like to hire our service professional on a full time basis. Another key to our success is the personal relationship that our management and sales team build with each of our existing and new clients. As noted previously, in order to reduce turnover of our service team by providing as many hours as possible, similar to the hours of a full-time employee, we utilize the same service team members across all payer sources. As each of our businesses is located in smaller based population areas of the country, the competition is significantly heightened and the relationships maintained with our clients become very critical to the continued success of our operations. As we provide diversified services and accept payments from multiple payer sources, we are not heavily dependent on a few clients in order for our business to be successful. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012. During the three months ended March 31, 2013, FHA recorded revenues of $1,212,611, a 20% increase over revenues of $1,008,294 for the same period in 2012. The increase for 2013 reflects an increase in revenue driven by the increased use of our staffing services in Billings, Montana and growth in our healthcare business in both locations. For the quarter ended March 31, 2013, cost of services totaled $838,862, a 25% increase as compared to $669,060 in the comparable period of 2012. This is a reflection of the costs associated with the increase in revenue. FHA posted a gross profit of $373,749 during the first quarter 2013, versus a gross profit of $339,234 for the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 10%. FHA recorded total operating expenses of $344,815 during the first quarter of 2013, a 40% increase as compared to operating expenses of $247,159 in the same period of 2012. General and administrative expenses totaled $105,604 in the first quarter 2013 versus $86,351 in the first quarter 2012, an increase of 22%, due to an increase in advertising, outside accounting and claims review services and office supplies. Consulting fees increased from $4,156 to $57,740 when comparing the first quarter of 2012 versus 2013. The increase was driven by audit fees, legal fees, and other expenses of being a public company, which were absorbed by the parent company under our previous ownership. Salaries, wages and related expenses increased to $161,184 in the first quarter of 2013 from $139,260 in 2013, an increase of 16%. This increase was driven by the addition of salaries for management of FHA for being a public company. Selling expenses in the first quarter of 2013 were $20,287 versus $17,392 in the comparable quarter of 2012, driven by an increased spending for advertising. FHAs net income available to common shareholders was $31,332 for the first quarter of 2013. This represents a 66% decrease from our net income of $93,046 in the first quarter of 2012. Liquidity and Capital Resources . Cash on hand was $240,671 at March 31, 2013, an increase of $32,213 from the $208,458 on hand at December 31, 2012. Cash provided by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2013, was $32,213, an increase of $136,522 over the $104,309 cash used by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012. The increase in accounts receivable is a direct result of the increased revenue experienced during the first three months of 2013. The decrease in accrued liabilities was driven by a wage accrual at the end of 2012, which was not required as of March 31, 2013. Overall, the operations of FHA generated the increase in the cash balance of $32,213 from December 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013.