Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Annual Report). Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared and, unless otherwise stated, the information derived therefrom as presented in this discussion and analysis is presented, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). In addition to historical information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon our current views, expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ substantially from those expressed or implied by any forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including, among others, the risks described in the Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. 21 Executive overview Natur International Corp was formerly named Future Healthcare of America. Future Healthcare of America was founded in 2012 and was traded with stock ticker symbol FUTU. Future Healthcare of America was a provider of home healthcare services, including senior care, occupational and speech therapy, and pediatric nursing services. The name change took place following the consummation of acquisition of Natur Holding B.V. and became effective Monday, January 7. The stock ticker symbol has become NTRU. Currently the healthcare services are being wound down. Natur Holding BV (The Company) was founded late 2015 and has its headquarters in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. Our current products include a range of cold pressed juices and healthy snacks. These products are currently sold either direct or through distribution partners in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, while formulating plans for further expansion in Europe and North America. Our products are produced by our product supplier AMC Juices who is also the parent company of our shareholder SFI Gestion de Participaciones Minoritarias SL. AMC Juices is one of the leading European suppliers of white label natural juices to over 70 of the largest retail chains in Europe. AMC is well known as the sectors innovation leader in Europe with proprietary manufacturing and production technologies. Our products are bottled or packed with technically advanced food safety measures, including cold pressed and high-pressure processing to bring fresh tasting fruit and vegetable blends to market through more than 15 product types. AMCs propriety technologies at the core of the proposition incorporate HPP (High Pressure Processing) and SNFC (Super non-from concentrate juices, that holds in the taste of freshness and yet extends shelf life to over 6 months). Naturs product route to market combines direct-to-business, direct-to-consumer and through select distributors. We also operate our flagship branded store in the Amsterdam canal district to operate as a consumer experiential environment. Our direct to consumer distribution is done via our own flagship store outlet, shop- in-shop solutions, supermarket chains, health clubs and online sales, in this regard we have created a robust multi-country e-commerce platform which can offer curated propositions and personalized delivery options to optimally increase our direct to consumer relationship. We also make use of tailored social media tools and slick viral marketing campaigns. Natur operated as a private enterprise in the Netherlands from its founding in 2015 through November 13, 2018, when it was acquired as a wholly owned subsidiary in a share exchange transaction by Future Healthcare of America on November 13, 2018. Immediately after the Share Exchange Transaction, the former Natur shareholders collectively own the controlling position among the shareholders of the Company. In this transaction it was agreed that the (former) activities of Future Healthcare of America will be divested. The surviving activities will for the time being exclusively consist of the Natur Holding BV activities as described above. Future Healthcare of America was founded on June 22, 2012, as a Wyoming corporation. It recently operated under the name Future Healthcare of America. That name was changed on January 7, 2018, when it was re-named Natur International Corp. This MD&A will cover the activities of Natur Holding BV for the years 2017 and 2018. The basis of this MD&A are the audited financial statements for the years 2017 and 2018. These statements are not an integral part of the financial statements. 22 1. Financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations In 2015/2016 the Company developed together with related partner AMC Juices a range of cold-pressed juices and in the fourth quarter 2016 the first entry to the market was achieved. In 2017 the range of products was extended by adding a range of nearly not heated juices and coconut water-based smoothies with a shelf life of 180 days (SNFC). This with the aim of providing products at a lower price point and offering a product that can be shipped ambient for a certain period of time. We further extended our HPP line with shots, lemonades and breakfast drinks. The current product offering of juices includes 38 different products of which 18 are pro-actively offered to the market, after the company performed in 2019 a rationalization of its product offering to minimize waste. The company is aiming to further expand its portfolio with additional functional juices infused with all-natural functional ingredients such as CBD and plant-based protein and nutrigenomics. These additions to our products are aimed for personalized health, which is fully on trend in the European Market. Also, an additional range of snack offerings has been developed in 2018. The Company aims for adding those to its portfolio in the second quarter of 2019. During 2018, management of the company was heavily involved in the negotiations with management and shareholders of Future Healthcare of America. A lack of free cash has limited the company to grow significantly in its home market (the Netherlands). As a consequence, management has been focused on cost cutting measures, that were effective in the short term to mitigate and control the cost development. As part of the Companys strategy to operate in a lean and mean manner, the Company has decided to centralize all support functions in the headquarters in the Netherlands and to support global account management centrally. For that reason, effective November 30, 2018, the Company has closed down the London office. The existing support functions have been transferred to the headquarters in Amsterdam as part of the centralization of support staff initiative. A distributor for the UK has been engaged, who will deliver to our current local customer base. In the table below, the profit and loss account for the periods ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 is displayed: December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Revenues 1,675,160 526,339 Gross Margin 622,086 93,434 Sales, general and Admin 6,132,779 7,499,295 Operating loss (5,510,693 ) (7,405,861 ) Revenues for continued operations increased compared to prior year by 218% on a full year basis. At the same time, economies of scale and supply chain efficiency improvements have resulted in an improved margin. During 2018, various measures has been taken to mitigate the loss-making from operational activities, leading to a sharp decrease of our losses during the first 9 months of 2018. Wages and salaries have been under strict control by utilizing digital and automated solutions for our support functions. Due to cash restrictions we have not been able to invest in the marketing and activation of our products in the various channels. Nevertheless, we have exceeded our prior year revenues by $1.2 million. We have used guerilla marketing techniques and active sales to achieve this. We will build our international presence from a solid position in the Dutch market place, and in parallel, expand the UK market, the French market and other European markets, to provide the Company with a good international platform and a blueprint for its further European roll-out. Management of the Company is aware that the auditor expressed an opinion on the matter of going concern; management is continuously streamlining the operations, whilst at the same time increasing revenue by introducing new products and attracting new customers. The relative share of costs against this increase in revenue is significantly lower which has a positive effect on the development of the gross margin and cash flow from operations. Based on global developments and following the success of companies in the USA and Canada, the company also defined new growth objectives with complementary products based on CBD as a new revenue model. For this, the Company established a new sister company to Natur Holding BV, Natur CBD BV, which is wholly owned by Natur International Corp. and is seeking additional capital, that may be either equity or debt, or both. However, potential investors require a debt restructuring and therefore management developed a corporate restructuring program and started negotiations with the current debtholders of Natur Holding BV to convert their debt into equity of Natur International Corp. The main pillar of such a restructuring plan is the transfer of certain assets and liabilities from Natur Holding BV to Natur CBD BV at arms length conditions and subsequently liquidate Natur Holding BV. As the intended restructuring is guided and controlled by legal specialists, management is reasonably assured that a to-be appointed trustee by the applicable Court in the Netherlands will accept the assets and liability transaction. The execution of the intended restructuring program is conditional upon the ability of the Company to raise additional capital prior to the implementation of the restructuring plan in order to supply the buying entity of the assets and liabilities with sufficient funds for the asset transaction and the financing of the daily operations. If this condition is not met, the restructuring will fail, and management will be forced to seek legal protection against its creditors and debtholders. There are a number of risks associated with the restructuring. These include the following: 1. Because the restructuring requires funding of Natur CBD BV, there is the risk that the Company will not be able to secure the amount necessary to fund the acquisition of the assets and accept the liabilities in the reorganization, in which case the restructuring will not result in the corporate objective sought, which is to reduce the debt of the Company on a consolidated basis. 2. Once the trustee has been appointed, there is no ability for the Company to terminate the restructuring process as described above. The trustee could take decisions that were not anticipated in respect of the assets and liabilities of Natur Holding, which may have an adverse impact on the restructuring and therefore on the entire Company. The trustee may even reject in its entirety the proposed restructuring plan. 23 3. If either because Natur CBD BV cannot complete its acquisition of the assets and acceptance of designated continuing liabilities, or there is objection to the restructuring by third parties, or the trustee on its own initiative rejects the restructuring plan, the trustee will have wide discretion in how to proceed. The trustee may sell the assets in a public sale, in which case the Company would lose the assets, including their value to the creditors of Natur Holding and the ability to use the assets. In this event, the Company would most likely not be able to continue its operations as a producer of its products and have to terminate operations. In the event of no operations, the investors in the company would lose the entirety of their investment. 4. There can be no assurance given that the trustee will discharge the debts that are sought to be terminated in the reorganization. Therefore, the Company may retain more debt obligations than anticipated and not be able to service the debt. If the debt on the Company is not reduced sufficiently, there is the risk that the Company will not be able to operate profitably or be able to continue its operations. 5. The planned restructuring is anticipated to expunge all the debt other than certain trade obligations, tax obligations and other general obligations of the operations in the Netherlands amounting to approximately $ 800,000. The Company anticipates being able to service this amount of assumed liabilities after the reorganization, but there can be no assurance that it will be able to do so. In such event, the Company may again face a reorganization or have to otherwise change its business plan or cease operations. 6. Although management and the board of directors believes that the restructuring will ultimately benefit the Company, there is no certainty that the restructuring will result in the required improvement to the financial condition of the overall Company or make operational funding available. The Company will continue to need to raise working capital and obtain funding in the future, for which no assurance can be given that the company will be able to find such funding on acceptable terms or at all. 2. Liquidity and capital resources Total net cashflow for the year 2018 amounted to -$0.9 million. The 2018 operating loss before depreciation and currency translation differences was $5.3 mio. This was partly financed by Efficiency Life Fund and NL Life Sciences, who provided several loans to cover for these losses ($1.6 mio and $1.4 mio) to ensure continuity. The recapitalization and issuance of preferred shares at the close of the reversed merger lead to a further investment of $2.0 mio. December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Net increase/(decrease) of cash position (913,352 ) 954,370 Cash position beginning of period 1,082,734 144,842 Cash for discontinued operations (41,018 ) 36,775 Cash position end of period 128,364 1,082,734 3. Unusual events that materially affected or are expected to materially affect income As a start-up company, the first two years were mainly focused on developing the products, building a relationship with key-suppliers and contracting distributors. Whilst the global market for our key products developed according to the vision management had at the start, the capital requirements for this type of business appeared to be steeper than anticipated and the market adaptation to our products was less than we expected. The new product range that we launched at the end of 2017 made our general consumer base larger. As a result, management of the company sought for a strategic partnership to strengthen the business model and to secure additional capital if and when needed. This search led to a series of discussions and meetings with management and shareholders of Future Healthcare of America. These activities distracted management significantly from the commercial and operational tasks and responsibilities. Per 13 November 2018 Future Healthcare of America and Natur Holding BV operate as one company, allowing management to refocus their attention on developing and growing the key business of the company.