Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . Safe Harbor Statement . Statements made in this Form 10-Q which are not purely historical are forward-looking statements with respect to the goals, plan objectives, intentions, expectations, financial condition, results of operations, future performance and business of the Company, including, without limitation, (i) our ability to gain a larger share of the home healthcare industry, our ability to continue to develop services acceptable to our industry, our ability to retain our business relationships, and our ability to raise capital and the growth of the home healthcare industry, and (ii) statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words "may", "would", "could", "should", "expects", "projects", "anticipates", "believes", "estimates", "plans", "intends", "targets", "tend" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties, and important factors (many of which are beyond the Company's control) that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements, including the following, in addition to those contained in the Company's reports on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission: general economic or industry conditions, nationally and/or in the communities in which the Company conducts business, changes in the interest rate environment, legislation or regulatory requirements, conditions of the securities markets, changes in the home healthcare industry, the development of services that may be superior to the services offered by the Company, competition, changes in the quality or composition of the Company's services, our ability to develop new services, our ability to raise capital, changes in accounting principles, policies or guidelines, financial or political instability, acts of war or terrorism, other economic, competitive, governmental, regulatory and technical factors affecting the Companys operations, services and prices. Accordingly, results actually achieved may differ materially from expected results in these statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. The Company does not undertake, and specifically disclaims, any obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of such statements. Business Highlights Based in Casper, Wyoming, and Billings, Montana, FHAs wholly-owned subsidiary, Interim Healthcare of Wyoming, Inc., a Wyoming corporation (Interim), is an independent franchisee of Interim HealthCare that has been serving its community for 18 years and is providing a wide range of visiting nurse services to the elderly, wounded and sick. It is one of the 300 independent home health agencies that comprise the Interim HealthCare network. Our business consists of providing healthcare services for those in need. We record all revenue and expenses and provide all services under one umbrella. Below is a description of our Home Healthcare and Staffing operations. As the census (number of patients utilizing facilities) in the hospitals fluctuates, we are taking the necessary steps to position ourselves for the ups and downs of the census for these facilities. Our home healthcare service continued to generate the majority of our revenue during the first quarter of 2015. During the first quarter of 2015, FHA experienced a 6% decrease in revenue over the first quarter of 2014. This was driven by decreases in our Casper, Wyoming home health businesses. In 2015, we have seen an increase in the census within the hospitals in our Billings, Montana location as well as the utilization of our staffing services in Billings. During the first quarter of 2015, we have seen a significant decrease in the utilization of our private pay business in the Casper, Wyoming location. We have re-established our priorities and goals for this location for the second quarter of 2015. As for our operations, we anticipate the trends seen in the first quarter of 2015 to continue into the second quarter of 2015. As such, we will continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the realm of services we offer. Promotional activities and operations are being managed as the offices experience fluctuations in the day-to-day activities and as we embark on new business opportunities. 12 Our home healthcare business continues to be a substantial revenue generator for our Company as our country's population ages and new methods of patient data capture become critical components for delivering high quality, affordable healthcare services in a patient's home. Although this has been a gradual process, we continue to build a solid business that will offer a complimentary package of new technology and traditional services. Home Healthcare Through trained health care professionals, FHA provides home care services including senior care and pediatric nursing; physical, occupational and speech therapy. FHA offices deliver quality home care and treat each patient with genuine compassion, kindness and respect. FHA provides health care professionals at all skill levels, including registered nurses, therapists, LPN's and certified home health aides. FHA derives is revenue from multiple payer sources. These include Medicare, Medicaid, Insurance, Medicaid LTW, and Private Payers. Because our officers are located in areas that do not contain a large population base (less than 200,000 residents), we continually explore opportunities to increase our revenue with our current payer sources and expand through new sources of revenue. The healthcare team is utilized across all payer sources, including staffing services. Our customer base comes from referrals from hospitals, rehab facilities, nursing homes, assisted living facilities and previous patients. In addition to our professional team, we employ a management team at each facility to handle the day to day direction of the office. This is provided by our Administrators. We also have a Director of Nursing in each location. This person is responsible for the day to day oversight of the service providers and ensuring the certified professionals obtain the necessary training to maintain their certificates as well as the training necessary to be in compliance with all regulating organizations. Staffing FHA provide nurses, nurse aides and management services to hospitals, prisons, schools, corporations and other health care facilities. FHAs success is based on our ability to recruit the best health care professionals and the responsiveness of our local managers to fill the needs of our clients in a timely manner. Additionally, we work with our clients should they decide they would like to hire our service professional on a full time basis. Another key to our success is the personal relationship that our management and sales team build with each of our existing and new clients. As noted previously, in order to reduce turnover of our service team by providing as many hours as possible, similar to the hours of a full-time employee, we utilize the same service team members across all payer sources. As each of our businesses is located in smaller based population areas of the country, the competition is significantly heightened and the relationships maintained with our clients become very critical to the continued success of our operations. As we provide diversified services and accept payments from multiple payer sources, we are not heavily dependent on a few clients in order for our business to be successful. Management has been working diligently to find acquisition candidates that fit with the direction of the Company, the industry and current customer demand. It has been difficult to find good companies with reasonable valuations and expectations. As of May 1, 2015, the Company is progressing with negotiations with a potential acquisition candidate. While Management anticipated a Letter of Intent in the fourth quarter of 2014, one was not entered into due to ongoing business negotiations. Management continues to work on this specific transaction opportunity, and while there can be no guarantee of success, we foresee entering into a Letter of Intent at some point in the near future, at which time we will file a Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing the material terms of any such proposed transaction. Management has also begun to explore acquisition candidates outside the current healthcare industry so that it may more easily locate and acquire a good company at a good price. Results of Operations Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. 13 During the three months ended March 31, 2015, FHA recorded revenues of $929,921, a 6% decrease over revenues of $992,531 for the same period in 2014. The decrease for 2015 was driven by a significant decrease in the use of our services in Casper, Wyoming in comparison to prior year, down 29%. This decrease was driven by a loss in business within our private pay business and specifically CNA services. This decrease was offset by an increase in revenue from the Billings, Montana location, reporting a 13% increase. For the quarter ended March 31, 2015, cost of services totaled $664,768, a 9% decrease as compared to $732,850 in the comparable period of 2014. This is a reflection of the costs associated with the decrease in revenue from the CNAs and a reduction in nurses at the Casper location. FHA posted a gross profit of $265,153 during the first quarter 2015, versus a gross profit of $259,681 for the first quarter of 2014, an increase of 2%. FHA recorded total operating expenses of $376,837 during the first quarter of 2015, a 6% increase as compared to operating expenses of $354,592 in the same period of 2014. General and administrative expenses totaled $101,340 in the first quarter 2015 versus $117,753 in the first quarter 2014, a decrease of 14%, due to a decrease in rent expense. Consulting fees increased from $67,827 to $80,329 when comparing the first quarter of 2014 versus 2015. The increase was driven by additional use of consultants to assist in the growth of the organization through expansion in the healthcare industry. Salaries, wages and related expenses decreased to $147,416 in the first quarter of 2015 from $154,273 in 2014, a decrease of 4%. This decrease was driven by the decrease in wages in our Casper location in the first quarter. Selling expenses in the first quarter of 2015 were $47,752 versus $14,739 in the comparable quarter of 2014, driven by spending for investor relation services. FHAs net loss available to common shareholders was $129,074 for the first quarter of 2015. This represents a 52% decrease from our net loss of $267,109 in the first quarter of 2014. A portion of this change was due the recording of $124,442 gain on the derivative instruments, off-set by the accretion of interest ($141,877) on the discount on the note payable. Liquidity and Capital Resources . Cash on hand was $645,118 at March 31, 2015, a decrease of $148,075 from the $793,193 on hand at December 31, 2014. Cash used by operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015, was $148,075, versus cash provided by operation of $30,350 for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease is a direct result of the current downturn in our Casper location. The Company has implemented changes in this location to help assist in correcting the operation results experience over the past two quarters.