Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of managements assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Companys actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A Risk Factors. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. 3 Part I Item 1. Business Company Overview For more than 30 years, Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the Company) has pioneered new wireless devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle, many of which feature location technology such as Global Positioning System (GPS). Garmin serves five primary markets, auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor, and we design, develop, manufacture, market, and distribute a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable, and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based and information products for these markets. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 235 million products, which included more than 15 million products delivered during fiscal 2020. Available Information Garmins annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmins directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmins website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains a website ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmins website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. This discussion of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Products Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reported segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. Many of the Companys products utilize Global Positioning System (GPS) and other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) receivers as a product feature that can be utilized in a variety of applications, including navigation, global positioning and tracking. GPS is a United States owned satellite network constellation that supports global positioning and navigation, providing precise geographic location and related data to both commercial and government GPS receivers. Commercial access to GPS is provided free of charge. In addition to GPS, other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) utilized by Garmin products include Japans MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service, the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the European Union Galileo system (Galileo), and the Chinese BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS). Some of Garmins products utilize a combination of global navigation satellite systems to improve navigational fix, which results in improved accuracy. On a subscription basis, certain Garmin products offer access to the Iridium satellite network, a synchronized constellation of 66 low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites offering global data communication coverage. Iridiums use of this constellation gives it the ability to span the entire globe, offering 100 percent coverage worldwide to enable reliable satellite-based communication. 4 Fitness Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in health, wellness, and fitness activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Fitness segment to consumers around the world: Running and Multi-sport Watches: Garmin running and multi-sport watches are offered under the Forerunner product series. The Forerunner series offers GPS-enabled watches with features unique to each model. Depending on the model, features include wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, music storage capabilities, mapping capabilities, and Garmin Pay contactless payment. Cycling Products: Garmin cycling products include cycling computers, power meters, bike radars, and smart lights. Additionally, Garmin offers Tacx indoor training equipment including smart and basic trainers, and a smart bike. Activity Tracking and Smartwatch Devices: Garmin offers a wide range of activity tracking devices and smartwatch devices. The Garmin product offerings include activity tracking fitness bands, GPS-enabled smartwatches, and fashion-forward hybrid smartwatches with analog style displays. The activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered by Garmin are the vvomove series, vvoactive series, vvosmart series, vvofit series, vvosport series, and the Venu. Each series of activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered has unique features, all to enhance and promote healthy and active lifestyles. Features of the activity tracking and smartwatch devices, depending on the series and model, include Garmin Pay, music storage capabilities, and 24/7 health monitoring. Fitness and Cycling Accessories: Garmin offers a wide range of fitness and cycling accessories including chest strap heart rate monitors, cycling speed and cadence sensors, and smart scales. Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile: Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users can track and analyze their fitness, activities and workouts, and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups and group challenges, and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community. Connect IQ: The Connect IQ application development platform enables third parties to create a variety of applications that run on a wide assortment of Garmin devices. Connect IQ provides developers with an easy-to-use software development kit (SDK) to facilitate development efforts in creating watch faces, applications, widgets, and data fields. These third-party applications are available for download by Garmin users via their mobile phone or computer and run on their compatible Garmin wearable, bike computer, golf device, or outdoor handheld. Outdoor Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Outdoor segment to consumers around the world: Adventure Watches: Garmin adventure watches include the fnix series, Instinct series, tactix series, the Descent series, and the MARQ collection. The fenix series offers premium multisport smartwatches with features such as wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, music storage capabilities, preloaded full-color topographical maps, Garmin Pay , and solar charging, depending on model. The Instinct series offers a rugged and reliable outdoor GPS smartwatch with built-in sports apps, heart rate sensor, smart connectivity and wellness data. The tactix series provides preloaded full-color topographical maps and tactical-inspired features. The Descent series are watch style dive computers that offer divers GPS navigation, multiple dive modes, support for up to six gasses, as well as integrated air pressure monitoring. The MARQ series is a collection of six luxury smart tool watches with premium materials and features unique to each watch. Outdoor Handhelds: Garmin offers outdoor handhelds under the Oregon, Rino, Montana, eTrex, GPSMAP, Foretrex and inReach product lines. Handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation 5 capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, preloaded maps, wi-fi and smartphone connectivity, two-way satellite communication and other features. Each series of products is designed to serve various price points. Handhelds with inReach include global satellite technology which, when combined with an active subscription, offers 2-way text messaging, S.O.S. capabilities and weather forecasts while anywhere in the world. Golf Devices: Garmin golf devices are offered under the Approach product line. The Approach series includes handhelds, wearables, club sensors, and laser ranging devices. Over 41,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses are available to be utilized on certain Garmin golf devices. Handheld and wearable golf devices provide yardage distances to the front, back, and middle of the green. In addition to course maps, the Approach G80 handheld device utilizes radar to provide swing metrics including estimated carry and roll, club head speed, ball speed, smash factor, and swing tempo. Dog Tracking and Training Devices : Garmin offers a variety of dog tracking and training devices, including those under the Astro, Alpha, PRO, BarkLimiter, and Delta product lines. Marine Garmin is a leading manufacturer of recreational marine electronics and offers a broad range of products. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Marine segment to consumers around the world: Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs): Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP and ECHOMAP product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable and fix-mounted products to 24-inch fully integrated Glass Helm offerings and include wireless connectivity to the ActiveCaptain mobile app. Cartography : Garmin is a premier supplier of cartography for the recreational marine market. Including the Garmin-owned Navionics branded charting products, Garmin is a leading supplier of recreational marine content for most major chartplotters and MFDs on the market. Fishfinders: Garmin offers an advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker series, which incorporate GPS technology enabling Quickdraw Contours, and wireless features through the ActiveCaptain and StrikerCast mobile apps. SONAR: Garmin also offers the Panoptix all seeing sonar smart transducer line. Panoptix LiveScope provides real-time, high-resolution images that can be seen in downward, perspective, and forward-looking views for locating the fish and seeing what is coming before you get there. The Panoptix line also offers detailed 3D underwater views of fish and structure under your boat. Garmins CHIRP black-box sounders and smart transducers interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the deep-water sounders and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. Autopilot Systems: Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as Garmins patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various steering systems. RADAR: Garmin offers high-tech solid state Fantom radar with MotionScope Doppler technology, lowering system power consumption and increasing reliability, while greatly improving situational awareness of the captain. Fantom radars are available in both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. Garmin also offers a full line of magnetron radars up to 25kW of transmit power. Instruments : Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays and sensors that show data from multiple remote sources on one screen. VHF Communication Radios: Garmin offers a full line-up of marine VHF radios and AIS transceivers with the latest feature sets including integrated GPS receivers for the communication needs of all 6 types of mariners. Garmin r adios are NMEA 2000 compatible and offer multi-station support, and monitor all AIS channels. Handhelds and Wearable Devices: Garmin offers the quatix series wearable, GPS-enabled smartwatches designed for mariners, which include marine features for navigation, sailing, stereo control, and autopilot functions. Garmin also offers floating marine GPS handhelds with wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography. Some handhelds contain built-in InReach satellite communication and support Connect IQ applications. Sailing: Garmin has integrated many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These SailAssist features include enhanced wind rose with true and apparent wind data, pre-race guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields. Entertainment: Garmins entertainment brand, Fusion, consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine or RV environments and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs, smartphones, and Garmin wearables. Digital Switching: Garmin offers digital switching products under the EmpirBus product line. The Garmin EmpirBus products provide power distribution and control solutions for marine and RV applications which enable advanced logic controls and smart electrical systems to enhance features in a boat or RV. The system features fully customizable graphics and user interface that can be controlled through Garmins marine multi-function displays and RV OEM products. Trolling Motors: Garmin offers the Force Trolling Motor, a powerful, efficient scissor-lift style trolling motor with built-in CHIRP and Ultra High-Definition ClearV and SideV sonar. The Force product line also connects wirelessly to Garmin chartplotters/MFDs to provide navigation, autopilot, and anchor lock integration. Aviation Garmin designs, manufactures and markets a wide range of innovative aircraft avionics solutions to the broad and diverse aviation sector. Avionics are sold directly into original equipment manufacturer (OEM) applications as well as through Garmins worldwide dealer network for retrofit installations on existing aircraft. Garmin has developed growth-minded products and technologies serving general aviation, business aviation, rotorcraft, and experimental/light sport markets. Our solutions are available for all aircraft categories and classes; from small piston and electric-powered general aviation aircraft, to large business jet aircraft, as well as a wide-ranging variety of helicopters serving critical public service and oil and gas missions, to name a few. Garmin also provides innovative products and software-as-a-service solutions to other markets such as commercial air-carrier, military and defense, and Advanced Air Mobility / eVTOL. By offering products such as Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and mission-optimized solutions to military and defense contractors/customers, and products tested and optimized for high duty cycle commercial aviation operations, Garmin is emerging as a strong competitor in these rapidly evolving business spaces. Garmin currently offers the following products, systems, and services to the global aviation market: Integrated Flight Decks: Known for defining the integrated flight deck (IFD) space in general aviation and light business aviation applications, Garmin offers OEM and retrofit IFD systems scaled for any size aircraft and rotorcraft, featuring communication and navigation, weather information, terrain and traffic awareness and avoidance, aircraft performance, and automated safety solutions. Electronic Flight Displays and Instrumentation: Garmin flight display and instrument solutions can serve as primary and back-up instruments, which also provide a wealth of valuable information in the cockpit, dramatically increasing situational awareness and capability. Navigation and Communication Products: Garmin offers a wide range of integrated and stand-alone GPS and VHF navigation and communication products, with a variety of capabilities, available for all market segments. 7 Automatic Flight Control Systems and Safety-Enhancing Technologies: Garmin offers scalable flight control systems with unique integrated safety features for aircraft and rotorcraft. Our Autopilot and Autonom safety-enhancing solutions cover the entire spectrum of aircraft, from large-cabin business jets and helicopters, to light general aviation aircraft. Garmins award-winning Autoland system will autonomously land the aircraft in the event the pilot is not able to do so. We also offer an innovative smart rudder bias system that can help the pilot maintain control of a twin-engine aircraft in the event of an engine failure. Audio Control Systems: Garmin produces a broad array of cutting-edge audio panels, including panel-mount and remote-mounted units, incorporating features such as Bluetooth connectivity, voice command technology, and integrated intercoms. Engine Indication Systems: Garmin offers a variety of advanced engine indication systems for piston and turbine-powered aircraft with comprehensive data-logging capabilities as well as wireless offloading, cloud storage and analysis capability through our flyGarmin.com online services portal. Traffic Awareness and Avoidance Solutions: Garmin offers an array of traffic advisory and collision avoidance systems, including TAS and TCAS / ACAS solutions, with applications in all types of aircraft. ADS-B and Transponders: Garmin offers a full lineup of ADS-B and transponder solutions, including ADS-B Out compliant solutions as well as ADS-B In and Bluetooth capable units that allow pilots to connect to their mobile device to display ADS-B traffic and weather. Weather Information and Avoidance Solutions: Garmin offers multiple weather solutions, including onboard Doppler digital radar products, along with satellite-based SiriusXM, ground-based ADS-B, as well as Garmin Connext global satellite weather options. Datalink and Connectivity: Garmin datalink and connectivity solutions allow pilots to download global weather data, communication via text/voice, as well as select mobile apps to transfer flight plans, manage database subscriptions, and stream weather and traffic data from installed avionics solutions. Portable GPS Navigators and Wearables: Garmin offers portable GPS navigators, smartwatches for pilots, satellite communicators, and portable traffic and weather solutions, providing pilots tools they can take with them from aircraft to aircraft. Services: Garmin offers a variety of services products to the aviation market. Web and mobile app-based products offered via FltPlan.com and our Garmin Pilot electronic flight bag application, help pilots plan, file, fly, and log flights and offer a wealth of information across all phases of flights. Business and commercial aviation customers also benefit from our safety management system, runway analysis and performance data, weight and balance, obstacle clearance, load planning, and navigation database solutions. Garmin continues to provide industry leading product support, and offers a wide selection of databases, training products, extended warranties, and subscription services for all aviation segments. Auto Garmin designs and develops products for use in the auto market that are offered to customers around the world. Auto OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Solutions: Garmin has cultivated key relationships with leading automobile manufacturers to be the provider of a variety of hardware and software solutions for their vehicles. These range from embedded computing models and infotainment systems that provide a broad range of functionality, to integrated camera solutions, embedded navigation solutions, and precise positioning technology solutions. These support not only the infotainment system in the vehicle, but also key advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) functionality as well. 8 Consumer Auto Personal Navigation Devices (PNDs): Garmin is a leading manufacturer of PNDs in the following categories, which include features such as large screens, Amazon Alexa integration, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance, map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal junction views (thousands of high-quality photos of actual upcoming junctions), Bluetooth hands-free capability, and driver awareness alerts: Consumer PND: The Drive series offers traditional PNDs for a wide range of consumers. Motorcycle: The zmo series offers motorcycle-specific features. Truck and fleet: The dzl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the Garmin fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system. RV: The RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. Offroad: The Overlander is a rugged, all-terrain navigator with topography maps for off-road guidance. Racing: The Garmin Catalyst is an industry-first racing coach and driving performance optimizer. Camera : The Garmin Dash Cam series offers GPS-enabled dash cams that provide high-quality video recording, automatic saving of video footage with G-sensor incident detection, and forward collision and lane departure warnings. Dash cams are offered as compact, standalone cameras that can be mounted to a car windshield. Garmin also offers wireless backup cameras that can be utilized with compatible PNDs to display camera footage behind the vehicle. Sales and Marketing Garmins distribution strategy is to support a broad and diverse network of sales channels for our products while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Our products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a large worldwide network of independent retailers, online retailers, dealers, distributors, installation and repair shops, as well as through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). We also offer products through our online webshop, www.garmin.com. No single customers purchases represented 10% or more of Garmins consolidated net sales in the years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmins offices around the world. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets, though competitive conditions vary among our diverse target markets and geographies. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Apple, Bryton, Elite, Fitbit, Huami, Huawei, Polar, Samsung, Sigma Sports, Suunto, Wahoo Fitness, and Xiaomi. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Casio, Dogtra, Shearwater Research, Globalstar, SportDOG, Suunto, TAG Heuer, Tissot, and Vista Outdoor. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Flir Systems, Furuno, Johnson Outdoors, and Navico. Garmin considers its principal avionics competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, CMC Electronics, Raytheon, Dynon Avionics, ForeFlight, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell Aerospace & Defense, Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Safran SA, Thales, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation. Garmin believes that its principal competitor for consumer automotive products is TomTom N.V., and Rand McNally. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for auto OEM infotainment solutions are Alpine Electronics, Harman International Industries, Continental, Bosch, the Mitsubishi Group, and Panasonic Corporation. 9 Research and Development Garmins product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmins engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmins products are created by its engineering and development staff. Garmins manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmins development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmins success. Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes one of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi, Jhongli and LinKou, its China facility in Yangzhou, its Netherlands facility in Oegstgeest, its Poland facility in Wroclaw, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes that its ownership and operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets. Specifically, Garmin believes that its vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality, and time to market. Cost: Garmins manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency, resulting in lower cost. Garmins vertical integration approach enables leveraging of manufacturing resources across high, mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across product lines favorably affects Garmins costs to produce its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of higher volume products. The ownership and integration of its resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of its products, yielding improved cost. Quality: Garmins automation and advanced production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enable Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams, providing integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain. Time to Market: Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products, allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable faster time to market. Garmins design, manufacturing, distribution, and service functions in its U.S., Taiwan, China and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmins automotive operations in Taiwan, China, U.K., and Olathe have achieved IATF 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmins Olathe and Salem aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry. Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmins systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and continually strive to improve its environmental performance. Materials Although most components essential to Garmins business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject, at times, to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations. 10 Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, automotive, aviation electronics, and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, and consumer electronics industries. New products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements and safety stock for strategically important components. Seasonality Our net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our auto OEM and aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of auto program manufacturing, aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business. As of January 28, 2021, Garmin has been issued over 1,450 patents throughout the world and holds more than 930 trademark registrations. The duration of patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmins rights in its proprietary technologies. There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Regulations The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft are required to be certified by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft. 11 Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Companys principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmins operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits apply to remittances involving a conversion between Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC. Environmental Matters Garmins operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes. Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget. Historically, capital expenditures associated with environmental controls have not been material and compliance with environmental laws has not had a material impact on the Companys competitive position. Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency. Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial. Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management. Garmins EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmins Kansas headquarters facility, Garmins European headquarters facility, and Garmins Taiwan and China manufacturing facilities. Garmin continues to strive to reduce our carbon footprint by increasing our environmental sustainability efforts. Our manufacturing locations have implemented increased recycling processes that keep all obsolete Garmin manufactured material from entering the waste stream. Additionally, our most recently completed facility in Olathe, Kansas has been constructed with energy efficient considerations, including reduced water consumption, LED lighting, and reflective roofing to deflect solar radiation. Human Capital Successful execution of our strategy is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining key employees and members of our management team. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we strive to provide opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by generous compensation and benefits, and through programs that build connections between our employees and their communities. 12 As of December 26, 2020, the Company had approximately 16,000 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom approximately 6,000 were in the Americas region, 7,800 were in APAC, and 2,200 were in EMEA. Garmins vertical integration model enables us to provide a variety of opportunities across many different professions including engineering, human resources, information technology, marketing, sales, and operations. The Companys products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered approximately 4,900 people worldwide as of December 26, 2020. Garmins manufacturing staff, which numbered approximately 6,100 people worldwide as of December 26, 2020, includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin respects the right of all employees to form and join an association to represent their interests as employees, to organize, and to bargain collectively or individually. We also respect any employees choice to refrain from joining a union. Except for some of Garmins employees in Sweden, none of Garmins employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong company culture and positive relations between the Company and our employees. We offer a range of robust benefits to our employees that enable us to attract and retain leading talent. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by country/region) include stock awards, retirement plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which provides employees an opportunity to acquire company ownership for a discounted price. We also invest significant resources in our talent development programs to provide employees with the training and education they need to help achieve their career goals, build relevant skills, and lead their organizations. Employee Resource Groups provide opportunities for employees to connect, network, and become involved in community engagement initiatives. We support local community engagement initiatives where we have a business presence, and we provide opportunities for employees to give back to those communities. One such initiative is through active engagement in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) community outreach programs. Our strategic aim in these educational programs is to educate and encourage local students to pursue careers in the engineering field, especially those in underrepresented groups, which we believe benefits not only our company but the overall industry. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits, or losses, from declining segments or product categories are not entirely offset. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. This is particularly important to replace sales and profits lost, or losses incurred, in declining segments or product categories. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. 13 If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for many of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Public health emergencies or outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases have had and will likely continue to have significant impacts on our business. Widespread public health emergencies or outbreaks of epidemics, pandemics, or contagious diseases, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had, and will likely continue to have, significant impacts on our business. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to rapidly evolve, creating disruption and uncertainty around the world, which has resulted in, and we expect will continue to result in, reduced overall demand for certain of our products and other operational impacts. There are unknown factors, such as the duration and severity of the pandemic, the nature and length of actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals to contain or mitigate its impact, the severity and duration of the economic impact caused by the pandemic, the uncertainty surrounding the efficacy, distribution and uptake of vaccines, along with the effectiveness of our response, that may affect the magnitude of effects to our business operations, results of operations, and its ultimate impact on our financial condition. Demand for certain of our products has been, and is expected to continue to be, adversely affected in several ways. Consumers have been and may continue to be less able or less likely to purchase certain of our products due to economic hardships, governmental restrictions affecting them and the retail outlets that sell our products, voluntary behavior changes associated with public health guidance, the prioritization of other goods and services by online retailers that sell our products, restrictions on the ability of online retailers to ship products to certain areas, the cancellation of trade shows and other events that are otherwise important in the marketing and sale of our products, and the potential failure and closure of retail outlets and online retailers that sell our products. Certain of our sales and distribution offices have experienced and may again experience temporary closure due to governmental restrictions. Additional or prolonged closures of certain sales and distribution offices could affect our ability to market and distribute products to meet customer demand. The adverse impacts of the pandemic have created economic stress in the global marketplace, high levels of unemployment, loss of income and/or wealth for some individuals, and general economic uncertainty. These conditions have affected and are expected to continue to affect the willingness or ability of customers to purchase certain of our products or those of original equipment manufacturers in which our products are installed. Our supply chain may also be adversely impacted by COVID-19. We may be unable to procure, or experience delays in procuring, certain components from our suppliers, and the cost of procuring components could increase. Reduced demand for certain of our products has resulted in, and may continue to result in, reduced utilization of certain of our manufacturing facilities and higher per-unit costs for certain products. Certain of our manufacturing facilities may also experience inopportune temporary closures or reduced hours, which could adversely affect the costs incurred to produce our products and our ability to meet demand. 14 COVID-19 has had and will continue to have several other operational impacts on our business, which will or may include employees working remotely, temporarily ceasing operations in some offices due to government restrictions, business travel restrictions, and the cancellation of events that are otherwise important in the development , marketing and sale of our products. These changes in our business operations may result in reduced efficiency and lower productivity. We have incurred and are expected to continue to incur increased costs as we provide additional benefits to assist our employees during the COVID-19 pandemic and provide a safe and healthy workplace for employees who continue to work in our facilities. Similar operational and financial hardships on our business partners may result in aged or uncollectable receivables, and the reduced demand for certain of our products could result in obsolescence of certain inventory. If the economy experiences a sustained downturn of significant proportion that impacts portions of our business, we may also need to incur the costs and organizational impacts of personnel restructuring. Additional risks and impacts associated with COVID-19 including gross margin fluctuation, foreign currency fluctuations, successful continued product development, impacts to our key personnel, and dependencies on third party suppliers, may be heightened as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. There are further unknown risks and impacts due to the uncertainty and rapidly evolving nature of the pandemic including, but not limited to, uncertainty around the evolution of the pandemic, the unprecedented imposition of preventative measures by governments that impact the economy and normal operations of a business and the timing and manner of relaxation of those measures. Potential future health emergencies may present risks and impacts similar to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. If we are unable to manage these risks and uncertainties, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially impacted. Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of these devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. We have experienced growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which in recent years have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for content, technology, and components used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components. We have and may continue to experience shortages of certain components. In addition, a shortage in supply of components may result in an increase of the costs of available components. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis or if we are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. We are committed to make significant investments in auto OEM for the foreseeable future, which could negatively impact total Company profits and shareholder value if we fail to become profitable. We have been awarded several tier-one and tier-two auto OEM supplier contracts. To fulfill the associated program commitments, we are investing significantly in facilities, research and development, and other operating expenses and we will continue to do so in the coming years. Gross margins associated with these auto OEM programs are lower than the gross margins realized by the Company as a whole in recent periods. If we are not successful in winning additional contract awards or substantially leveraging our investments, periods of lower operating income or operating losses in the auto OEM segment could continue to negatively impact total Company profits and may negatively impact shareholder value if we fail to become profitable. 15 We rely on information technology systems for our business operations. Failures or disruptions, including security breaches or cyber attacks, to our information technology systems may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and result of operations. Our information technology systems allow for our daily business operations to operate efficiently and effectively. These systems assist in our business processes, including, but not limited to, communications, financial management, supply chain management, manufacturing, order processing, shipping and billing, and providing services and support to our customers. Additionally, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including our intellectual property and confidential and proprietary information and that of our business partners. We also electronically maintain personal information of our users and employees. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A disruption to any of these processes can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, a breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property or confidential and proprietary information or that of our business partners, as well as our users or employees' personal information. We have technology and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties have also attempted, and may in the future attempt, to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we have been and may in the future be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks have caused and are expected to continue to cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of our intellectual property or confidential and proprietary information or that of our business partners, or if we fail to reasonably maintain the security of the personal information of our users or employees, we may suffer significant reputational and financial losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations and loss of functionality of critical systems and online services, and may subject us to private litigation, government investigations, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. The Company was the victim of a cyber attack that encrypted some of our systems on July 23, 2020. As a result, many of our online services were interrupted including website functions, customer support, customer facing applications, and company communications. We immediately began to assess the nature of the attack and started remediation. Based on our due diligence and independent forensic analysis, we have no indication that any customer data was accessed, lost or stolen. Additionally, the functionality of Garmin products was not affected, other than the ability to access online services. The impact of this outage to our operations and financial results was not material, and we do not expect it to have material impacts on future periods. However, we may still suffer negative consequences, including certain of those described in the paragraphs above, beyond our current expectations . Our annual and quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The operation of our subsidiaries in global markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations. We have not historically used financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risks. 16 The currencies that typically create a majority of our exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, British Pound Sterling, Australian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, and Japanese Yen. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the Euro is the functional currency of several subsidiaries, and the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities with other functional currencies, fluctuations of other currencies are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. We translate income and expense activity at the approximate rate of exchange at the transaction date, and all assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense activity in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar can be impacted by exchange rate variations over time. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses. Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company. Our tax positions could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns, particularly in the US, Switzerland, Taiwan, and UK. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Global taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations. While these recommendations do not change tax law, the countries where we operate may implement legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements. Partially to respond to recent and continuing changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction which migrates ownership of certain consumer products intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the primary location of research, development and executive management. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we are pursuing an advanced pricing agreement with relevant jurisdictions to provide certainty regarding the pricing. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of the final advanced pricing agreement and related negotiations, which could materially and/or adversely impact our income tax provision, net income or cash flows for periods during negotiation and upon finalization. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, most notably in the area of transfer pricing. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations. We manufacture goods in the Peoples Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and import certain materials from the PRC that are used to manufacture goods in the United States. The imposition of additional governmental controls or regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to materials or goods from the PRC, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 Economic, regulatory, and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. We have operations outside the United States that make up a significant portion of our total revenue, which can present challenges depending on economic and geopolitical conditions on both a global and regional scale. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue in the past, and could in the future result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Our principal manufacturing facilities, where we manufacture most of our consumer products, are located in Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands, and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations exist between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. Deviations from the "one-China" policy could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could adversely affect our operations in Taiwan in the future. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. We have generally been able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a diverse product portfolio, competition in the market for our products intensifies and the markets for some of our products mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations: If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components, higher freight costs associated with urgent distribution of the products, and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. 18 The effects of the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit), including trade agreements, are not yet known and the uncertainty creates challenges and risks which could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. The United Kingdom (UK) formally left the European Union (EU) on January 31, 2020, and a transition period through December 31, 2020 was established to allow the UK and EU to negotiate the terms of the UKs withdrawal. As a result, the UK is no longer part of the European Single Market and European Union Customs Union effective January 1, 2021. The UK and EU signed the EUUK Trade and Cooperation Agreement (TCA) in December 2020, which has been applied provisionally since January 1, 2021 until it is ratified by all parties to the agreement. Under the TCA, there is no longer the free movement of goods or people between the UK and the EU, which has resulted and could continue to result in certain delays in the shipment of these goods. The long-term risks of Brexit include economic recessions in the UK or other European markets and currency instability for both the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. We have operations in the UK, including offices and a distribution facility, and several EU member states. Brexit therefore has impacted and will continue to impact our operations. While these impacts have not yet been material to our business operations, results of operations, and financial condition, risks such as slow or inefficient border clearance, prolonged economic recession, and currency fluctuations could have material adverse effects in the future. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties may claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our products malfunction or contain errors or defects, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable and could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Continued declines in consumer auto revenue could negatively impact the carrying value of the goodwill associated with the reporting unit. We experienced substantial growth through 2008 in our auto segment as PNDs became mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America. The consumer auto market has been declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. Navigation technologies have been incorporated into and become more prevalent in competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. The acceptance by consumers of these alternative solutions has negatively impacted sales and profits in the consumer auto segment. There is no assurance that the decline in sales will end, and thus no assurance that we can continue to generate profits from the consumer auto segment, which could put some or all of the goodwill associated with the consumer auto reporting unit at further risk of impairment. Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased warranty claims, and litigation. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or use competing products. Our business is subject to a variety of United States and international laws, regulations and other legal obligations regarding data protection. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, including in the United States, have enacted or are considering enacting a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties, governmental investigations and regulatory proceedings, litigation, harm to our brand, and a decrease in the use of our products and services. Many of these laws provide for significant penalties. Under the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, for example, potential penalties can be as high as 4% of a companys total global revenue. Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that products life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 20 Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Act) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (CFCs). The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act added Section 951A which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC. The 2017 Act also eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion. From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a stock buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability. Some of our products are subject to governmental regulation or certification. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis, either due to government shutdown or other delays in the certification process, could harm our business. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Additionally, failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in a shutdown of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees, due to partial or complete government shutdowns or otherwise, could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, in accordance with FCC rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC in the United States and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. 21 Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in recent years there has been a global shortage of qualified engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development costs, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been lower in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, evaluate, complete, and integrate such transactions. We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. 22 Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. Due diligence performed prior to closing acquisitions may not uncover certain risks or liabilities that could materially impact our business and financial results. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the GDPR and other corporate governance and regulatory matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other Global Satellite Navigation Systems (GNSS). The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. GPS satellites have a limited lifespan and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. While many of the original satellites deployed by the U.S. have been in operation for more than 20 years, the U.S. Space Force and Missile Systems Center continue to launch new satellites to replace retired and aged satellites. Despite ongoing efforts to repair, maintain and replace non-operational satellites, if a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of GPS and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. Furthermore, as GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized, software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and commercial access to GPS was no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. Some of our products also use satellite signals from Russias GLONASS, Japans MSAS, EGNOS aviation SoL service, the European Union Galileo system, and the Chinese BDS. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-US GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 23 A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Governments GPS satellites. GPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change could affect our financial results. Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis, typhoons, floods, wildfires, or earthquakes, could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which would cause disruptions in our business operations or loss of inventory. Global climate change could also result in certain types of natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. For descriptions and locations of our principal properties, see Item 2, Properties. These events could also have an impact on our suppliers and affect our supply chain. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption and if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected. Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to evolving regulatory and legislative measures surrounding climate change. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. U.S. Congress, in addition to other regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, could pass further legislation to mandate greenhouse gas emission reduction, implement cap-and-trade programs, or promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Such measures could influence mobility and transportation trends, which could decrease the demand for certain of our products. If climate change has impacts on natural disasters or the regulatory environment as discussed above, it could result in a change in demand for certain products in markets that we serve, including auto, aviation, and marine. If we fail to adjust our product and service offerings to respond to new opportunities driven by changes in regulation and/or consumer preferences, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 24 Risks Relating to Our Shares The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2020, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $63.63 to a high of $122.85. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates and global currency exchange rates; announcements of technological innovations; product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 26, 2021, members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with their respective immediate family members and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 22% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed at a shareholders meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. 25 We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax. As of December 26, 2020, we had CHF 5,214 million of unappropriated capital contribution reserves available from which the Company may make dividend payments or utilize to repurchase shares for which no withholding tax applies. At the time this reserve balance has been returned to shareholders through dividends or share repurchases, a Swiss federal withholding tax of 35% will generally be applicable to any dividends paid to shareholders. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss federal Tax Administration. A holder that qualifies for benefits under a double tax treaty may be able to recover partial withholding tax. For example, a U.S holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). After we have exhausted our remaining capital contribution reserves by appropriating them for dividends or share repurchases, any dividends paid by the Company will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at 35%. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to pay a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. Under current Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. Therefore, repurchase of our own shares further limits the amount of capital reserves available for distributions to shareholders free of Swiss withholding taxes. No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares to the extent sufficient capital reserves are available. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years and there is not sufficient capital contribution reserves, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six-year period. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. Under Swiss law we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase and hold our own shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 Item 2. Properties Garmin and its subsidiaries own a majority of their principal properties and lease certain other properties. Depending on location, the properties could be used for manufacturing, warehousing, research and development, office space, or a combination of activities. Garmins principal properties are described below: Garmin International, Inc. owns and occupies facilities of approximately 1,990,000 square feet on approximately 107 acres at 1200 East 151st Street, Olathe, Kansas, U.S. where the majority of product design and development work is conducted, the majority of aviation panel-mount products are manufactured, and products are warehoused, distributed, and supported for North, Central and South America. The 1,990,000 square feet includes a newly constructed 775,000 square foot manufacturing and distribution center. In connection with the bond financings for the facility in Olathe and the expansions of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to the Olathe facilities, which are leased to Garmins subsidiaries by the City. Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe is obligated to transfer title to Garmins subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of $200. Garmin International, Inc. has purchased all the outstanding bonds and expects to continue to hold the bonds until maturity in order to benefit from property tax abatement. Garmin International, Inc. leases 148,000 square feet of land at New Century Airport at 1 New Century Pkwy, Gardner, Kansas, U.S. under a ground lease and occupies two aircraft hangars on this land, one of which is owned (47,000 square feet) and the other leased (53,000 square feet). Both properties serve as flight test and certification facilities that are used in development and certification of aviation products. Garmin AT, Inc. leases approximately 18 acres of land at 2345 Turner Road SE, Salem, Oregon, U.S. under a ground lease. The current term of this ground lease ends in 2030, but Garmin AT, Inc. has the option to extend the ground lease until 2050. Garmin AT, Inc. owns and occupies a 115,000 square foot facility for office and manufacturing use and a 33,000 square foot aircraft hangar that serves as a flight test and certification facility on this land. Garmin AT, Inc. also owns and occupies an additional 66,000 square foot facility on the same property for customer support and research and development activities. Garmin Corporation owns and occupies a 247,000 square foot facility at No. 68, Zhangshu 2nd Road, Xizhi Dist., New Taipei City, Taiwan, a 185,000 square foot facility at No.97, Sec. 1, Xintai 5th Rd., Xizhi Dist., New Taipei City, Taiwan, a 224,000 square foot facility at No. 24 Beiyuan Road, Jhongli, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan, and a 576,000 square foot facility at No. 270 Huaya 2nd Road, LinKou, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan. Garmin China YangZhou Co., Ltd. leases a 204,000 square foot manufacturing facility at No. 122, Jinshan Road, Bali Town, Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples Republic of China. These facilities are used for the manufacturing and warehousing of most of Garmins auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor products, as well as portable aviation products. These facilities are also used for research and development activities and marketing and support of products for Asia Pacific countries. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. owns and occupies a 155,000 square foot building located at Liberty House, Hounsdown Business Park, Southampton, U.K., used as offices and a distribution facility. Tacx B.V. owns and occupies a 291,000 square foot facility located at De Boeg 2, 2343 MA Oegstgeest, Netherlands. This facility is used for design and development, manufacturing, and warehousing of indoor training products. Garmin Wroclaw sp. zo.o leases a 319,000 square foot facility located at Ul. Ryszarda Chomicza 2, 55-040 Biskupice Podgrne, Poland. This facility is used for the manufacturing of certain auto OEM products, as well as distribution of other Garmin products in the region. Garmin also owns and leases other properties around the world that are not described above and used for office space, warehousing, and retail. 27 Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Companys management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company settled or resolved certain matters during the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure None. Information about our Executive Officers Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 4, 2021. Dr. Min H. Kao , age 72, has served as Executive Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013 and was previously Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2004 to December 2012 and Co-Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to August 2004. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. from August 2002 to December 2012 and previously served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 to August 2002. Dr. Kao served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company from August 1990 until January 2013. Dr. Kao holds Ph.D. and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee and a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University. Clifton A. Pemble , age 55, has served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004. He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013. Previously, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. from October 2007 to December 2012. Previously, he was Vice President, Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2005 to October 2007, Director of Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2003 to 2005, Software Engineering Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 2002, and a Software Engineer with Garmin International, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Pemble has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since August 2003. Mr. Pemble holds BA degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from MidAmerica Nazarene University. 28 Douglas G. Boessen , age 58, has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since July 2014. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of EiKO Global, LLC from September 2013 to May 2014, as well as Collective Brands, Inc. from November 1997 to November 2012. Mr. Boessen has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since July 2014. Mr. Boessen is a certified public accountant and holds a BS degree in Business from the University of Central Missouri and is a graduate of the executive development program at Northwestern Universitys Kellogg Graduate School of Management. Andrew R. Etkind , age 65, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since June 2009. He was previously General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to June 2009. He has been Vice President and General Counsel of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2007, General Counsel since February 1998, and Secretary since October 1998. Mr. Etkind has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since December 2001. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and LLM degrees from Cambridge University, England and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. None of the executive officers have an employment agreement with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers. 29 PART II Item 5. Market for the Companys Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Garmins shares have traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC under the symbol GRMN since its initial public offering on December 8, 2000 (the IPO). As of January 31, 2021, there were 199 shareholders of record. The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $300 million of the Companys shares as market and business conditions warrant. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017. The Company made no repurchases of shares during the years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018. See Note 11 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the share repurchase plan. We refer you to Item 12 of this report under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information for certain equity plan information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 30 The graph below matches Garmin Ltd.'s cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Nasdaq Composite index and the Nasdaq 100 index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2015 (12/15) to December 31, 2020 (12/20). 12/15 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 12/20 Garmin Ltd. 100.00 136.60 174.28 191.41 302.68 380.74 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 108.87 141.13 137.12 187.44 271.64 NASDAQ 100 100.00 107.27 142.67 142.72 199.03 296.31 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 31 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019 and the selected consolidated statements of income data for the years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018 were derived from the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 29, 2018, December 30, 2017, and December 31, 2016 and the selected consolidated statements of income data for the years ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 were derived from the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements, not included herein. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations and should be read together with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes to those statements included in Items 7 and 8 in Part II of this Form 10-K. The Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) effective beginning with the Companys first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Item 6 in Part II of this Form 10-K have been restated accordingly. In the table presented below, the selected consolidated statements of income and selected balance sheet data for the years ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 have been restated in accordance with the Companys adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. 32 Years ended (1) Dec. 26, 2020 Dec. 28, 2019 Dec. 29, 2018 Dec. 30, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 4,186,573 $ 3,757,505 $ 3,347,444 $ 3,121,560 $ 3,045,797 Gross profit 2,481,336 2,233,976 1,979,719 1,797,941 1,688,525 Operating income 1,054,240 945,586 778,343 683,637 632,864 Net income (2) 992,324 952,486 694,080 709,007 517,724 Net income per share: Diluted $ 5.17 $ 4.99 $ 3.66 $ 3.76 $ 2.73 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted 191,895 190,899 189,734 188,732 189,343 Dividends declared per share (3) $ 2.44 $ 2.28 $ 2.12 $ 2.04 $ 2.04 Balance Sheet Data (at end of Period): Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 2,977,259 $ 2,609,505 $ 2,714,844 $ 2,313,208 $ 2,327,120 Total assets 7,031,373 6,166,799 5,382,858 4,948,289 4,484,549 Total debt Total stockholders equity 5,516,116 4,793,496 4,162,974 3,852,419 3,453,259 (1) Our fiscal year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not always fall on December 31. All years presented contain 52 weeks, excluding fiscal 2016 which includes 53 weeks. (2) The following significant items are included in the Net income line that may affect comparability: In 2020, a $14.3 million tax benefit was recognized resulting from the release of uncertain tax position reserves associated with a 2014 intercompany restructuring, partially offset by income tax expense of $11.0 million resulting from the revaluation of certain Switzerland tax assets related to the Switzerland tax reform transitional measures; In 2019, a $118.0 million income tax benefit was recognized resulting from the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets as a result of the enactment of Switzerland Federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform and related transitional measures; In 2017, a $180.0 million income tax benefit was recognized, primarily related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from the Company's election to align Switzerland corporate tax positions with global tax initiatives, partially offset by $22.6 million of income tax expense due to the expiration of certain share-based awards. (3) Dividends declared per share refers to the cash dividend per share that has been approved by shareholders in the given fiscal year. See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Dividends for additional detail. 33 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited Consolidated Financial Statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. This section provides discussion and a year-to-year comparison for the fiscal years ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019. Discussion regarding our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018 and a year-to-year comparison between the fiscal years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 can be found in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmins fiscal year is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018 contained 52 weeks. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Companys fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we," "us," "our" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview We are a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. Garmin is organized in the six operating segments of auto OEM, aviation, consumer auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor. The Companys Chief Executive Officer, who has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), allocates resources and assesses performance of each operating segment individually. The aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor operating segments represent reportable segments. The auto OEM and consumer auto operating segments, which serve the auto market, do not meet the quantitative thresholds to separately qualify as reportable segments, and they are therefore reported together in an all other category captioned as auto. Auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor are collectively referred to as our reported segments. The operating segments offer products through our network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, our own webshop, as well as through various auto, aviation, and marine OEMs. Each of the operating segments is managed separately. The consumer auto operating segment was previously referred to as our auto PND operating segment. We have revised the name of this operating segment to reflect the evolution of the product lines and focus of that part of our business. The name change did not impact the composition or operating results of the segment. Since our first products were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive income from consolidated operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits. 34 Impacts of COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic has created disruption and uncertainty in the global economy and has affected our business, suppliers, and customers. Our operating segments were not all impacted equally, as COVID-19 had an unfavorable impact on net sales and profitability of the auto and aviation segments during fiscal year 2020. However, the diversity of our business and product offerings helped mitigate the impacts to our consolidated net sales and operating income. With pre-existing fundamentals such as trade credit insurance, direct online sales through our webshops, direct fulfillment arrangements with certain retailers, our strong cash and marketable securities position, market and product diversity, a vertically integrated business model, and ample inventory on hand, we were well-positioned to mitigate the initial impacts of COVID-19. While COVID-19 continues to evolve into a complicated and prolonged global pandemic, we have implemented further mitigation measures, such as initiating additional direct fulfillment arrangements with retailers, mitigating single source supplier dependencies, enhancing cleaning and sanitation within our facilities to maintain a healthy and safe environment for essential on-site functions, boosting functionality and security of technology for employees who are working from home, and fostering the safe reintegration of our on-site workforce. These mitigation efforts complement our top priorities of ensuring the health and safety of our employees and continuing to serve our customers. Additional benefits have been provided to many of our employees, including increased flexible work arrangements, remote work access, and flexible paid leave policies. We have also focused on mitigating impacts to operating income and liquidity by monitoring our expense structure and balance sheet, reducing and prioritizing certain discretionary operating expenses and capital expenditures, and slowing the number of new employees hired. Sustained adverse impacts to us, our suppliers or our customers may affect the future valuation of certain assets and therefore may increase the likelihood of an impairment charge, write-off, write-down, reserve, or accelerated expense associated with such assets, including marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventories, prepaid expenses, property and equipment, tax assets, goodwill, indefinite and finite-lived intangible assets, capitalized preproduction design and development costs, and other assets. Although we believe we have taken appropriate actions to help mitigate risks associated with COVID-19 as described above, the duration and magnitude of COVID-19 impacts to our business operations and financial results may be affected by a number of factors including uncertainty regarding the evolution of the pandemic, the imposition or relaxation of government restrictions on business and social gathering activities, voluntary behavior changes associated with public health guidance, the efficacy, distribution and uptake of vaccines, and those presented above in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 35 Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units in proportion to the expected benefit from each business combination. Each of the Companys operating segments (auto OEM, aviation, consumer auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor) represents a distinct reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the operating performance indicators, competition, or expectations about future market or economic conditions. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant assumptions, including discount rate, projected future revenues, projected future operating margins, and terminal growth rates. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Unrecognized Income Tax Benefits We recognize liabilities associated with uncertain income tax positions, including those related to transfer pricing, based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. We recognize the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be not required or it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Assessing uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment, including the evaluation of unique facts and circumstances and the interpretation of laws and regulations, especially the assessment of pricing analyses that may produce various ranges of outcomes. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Other For further information on the Companys critical accounting policies, refer to the discussion in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as indicated in the table below: Intangible Assets Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Income Taxes Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 6 - Income Taxes Revenue Recognition Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 13 - Revenue Product Warranty Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Legal and Other Contingencies Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 4 - Commitments and Contingencies 36 Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our retail partners, dealer and distributor network, our own webshop, and to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive from our retail, dealer, and distributor customers. Certain arrangements with OEM customers are entered into at the beginning of an aircraft or vehicle life cycle with the intent to fulfill customer purchasing requirements for the entire production life, although there are generally no firm volume commitments, and sales are therefore generated on an order-by-order basis. As a result, we do not believe backlog information is material to the understanding of our business. Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and in the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Our auto OEM and aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation but are more influenced by the timing of auto program manufacturing, aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Sales/Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower cost components. We believe that our flexible production model allows our factories to experience relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan and China than in Olathe and Salem. Sales price variability has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. Our gross profit is dependent on segment mix, and to a lesser extent, product mix within each segment. Advertising Expense Our advertising expenses consist primarily of costs for media advertising, cooperative advertising with our retail partners, point of sale displays, and sponsorships. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: salaries for sales, marketing and product support personnel; salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; marketing, and other brand building costs; finance and legal costs; human resource costs; information systems and infrastructure costs; travel and related costs; and occupancy and other overhead costs. 37 Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent engineering personnel costs, costs of test equipment and components used in product and prototype development, and outside product development costs. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new auto OEM programs and new markets for active lifestyle products. Income Taxes We have experienced a relatively low effective income tax rate due to the proportion of our income generated by entities in tax jurisdictions with low statutory rates. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of goods sold 41 % 41 % 41 % Gross profit 59 % 59 % 59 % Operating expenses: Advertising 4 % 4 % 5 % Selling, general and administrative 14 % 14 % 14 % Research and development 17 % 16 % 17 % Total operating expenses 34 % 34 % 36 % Operating income 25 % 25 % 23 % Other income (expense), net 1 % 1 % 1 % Income before income taxes 26 % 26 % 25 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 2 % 1 % 4 % Net income 24 % 25 % 21 % The table below sets forth our results of operations through operating income for each of our five reported segments and supplemental information for the consumer auto and auto OEM operating segments that management believes is useful. The Companys CODM uses operating income as the measure of profit or loss, combined with other measures, to assess segment performance and allocate resources. Operating income represents net sales less costs of goods sold and operating expenses. Net sales are directly attributed to each segment. Most costs of goods sold and the majority of operating expenses are also directly attributed to each segment, while certain other costs of goods sold and operating expenses are allocated to the segments in a manner appropriate to the specific facts and circumstances of the expenses being allocated. For each line item in the table below, the total of the reported segments amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income data included in Item 6. As indicated in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The amounts presented below for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 are presented here as they were originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate operating income for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million less for aviation, approximately $11 million more for marine, approximately $7 million more for outdoor, and not significantly different for auto and fitness. 38 Auto 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Fitness Outdoor Marine Aviation Total Auto Consumer Auto Auto OEM Net sales $ 1,317,498 $ 1,128,081 $ 657,848 $ 622,820 $ 460,326 $ 275,493 $ 184,833 Cost of goods sold 619,959 388,304 273,398 169,812 253,764 135,629 118,135 Gross profit 697,539 739,777 384,450 453,008 206,562 139,864 66,698 Advertising expense 66,157 49,957 21,549 2,921 10,582 10,387 195 Selling, general and administrative expenses 190,109 143,714 94,376 76,504 65,542 40,094 25,448 Research and development expense 122,389 105,021 92,801 236,380 149,094 47,919 101,175 Total operating expenses 378,655 298,692 208,726 315,805 225,218 98,400 126,818 Operating income (loss) $ 318,884 $ 441,085 $ 175,724 $ 137,203 $ (18,656 ) $ 41,464 $ (60,120 ) 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Fitness Outdoor Marine Aviation Total Auto Consumer Auto Auto OEM Net sales $ 1,047,527 $ 917,567 $ 508,850 $ 735,458 $ 548,103 $ 365,511 $ 182,592 Cost of goods sold 514,923 319,124 205,901 192,073 291,508 193,293 98,215 Gross profit 532,604 598,443 302,949 543,385 256,595 172,218 84,377 Advertising expense 71,772 52,171 20,411 5,667 14,435 14,174 261 Selling, general and administrative expenses 159,793 124,650 90,352 65,663 78,110 53,444 24,666 Research and development expense 109,181 87,581 82,310 219,112 107,182 41,301 65,881 Total operating expenses 340,746 264,402 193,073 290,442 199,727 108,919 90,808 Operating income (loss) $ 191,858 $ 334,041 $ 109,876 $ 252,943 $ 56,868 $ 63,299 $ (6,431 ) 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness Outdoor Marine Aviation Total Auto Consumer Auto Auto OEM Net sales $ 858,329 $ 809,883 $ 441,560 $ 603,459 $ 634,213 $ 425,684 $ 208,529 Cost of goods sold 386,565 281,629 182,804 153,307 363,420 245,822 117,598 Gross profit 471,764 528,254 258,756 450,152 270,793 179,862 90,931 Advertising expense 64,707 46,041 18,284 7,207 19,155 18,803 352 Selling, general and administrative expenses 135,096 120,588 97,682 36,139 88,672 71,265 17,407 Research and development expense 90,216 71,115 79,446 202,060 124,968 46,653 78,315 Total operating expenses 290,019 237,744 195,412 245,406 232,795 136,721 96,074 Operating income (loss) $ 181,745 $ 290,510 $ 63,344 $ 204,746 $ 37,998 $ 43,141 $ (5,143 ) Net Sales Net Sales 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 1,317,498 26 % $ 1,047,527 22 % $ 858,329 Percentage of Total Net Sales 31 % 28 % 26 % Outdoor 1,128,081 23 % 917,567 13 % 809,883 Percentage of Total Net Sales 27 % 24 % 24 % Marine 657,848 29 % 508,850 15 % 441,560 Percentage of Total Net Sales 16 % 13 % 13 % Aviation 622,820 (15 %) 735,458 22 % 603,459 Percentage of Total Net Sales 15 % 20 % 18 % Auto 460,326 (16 %) 548,103 (14 %) 634,213 Percentage of Total Net Sales 11 % 15 % 19 % Consumer Auto 275,493 (25 %) 365,511 (14 %) 425,684 Percentage of Total Net Sales 7 % 10 % 13 % Auto OEM 184,833 1 % 182,592 (12 %) 208,529 Percentage of Total Net Sales 4 % 5 % 6 % Total $ 4,186,573 11 % $ 3,757,505 12 % $ 3,347,444 39 Net sales increased 11% in 2020 when compared to the year-ago period. All operating segments had an increase in revenue except for aviation and consumer auto. Fitness revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in 2020 at 31% compared to 28% in 2019. Total unit sales decreased 1.3% to 15.4 million units in 2020 from 15.6 million units in 2019. Fitness, outdoor, marine, and auto OEM revenues increased 26%, 23%, 29%, and 1%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period. The fitness revenue increase was primarily driven by strong demand for advanced wearables and cycling products. The outdoor revenue increase was driven by sales growth across multiple product categories, primarily led by adventure watches. Marine revenue increases were driven by sales growth across all product categories, led primarily by chartplotters and SONAR products. The auto OEM revenue increase was driven by sales growth in new auto OEM programs. Aviation revenue decreased 15% from the year-ago period, due to fewer shipments to OEM customers and reduced contributions from ADS-B products. Consumer auto revenue decreased 25% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing personal navigation device market contraction. Gross Profit Gross Profit 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 697,539 31 % $ 532,604 13 % $ 471,764 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 53 % 51 % 55 % Outdoor 739,777 24 % 598,443 13 % 528,254 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 66 % 65 % 65 % Marine 384,450 27 % 302,949 17 % 258,756 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 58 % 60 % 59 % Aviation 453,008 (17 %) 543,385 21 % 450,152 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 73 % 74 % 75 % Auto 206,562 (19 %) 256,595 (5 %) 270,793 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 45 % 47 % 43 % Consumer Auto 139,864 (19 %) 172,218 (4 %) 179,862 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 51 % 47 % 42 % Auto OEM 66,698 (21 %) 84,377 (7 %) 90,931 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 36 % 46 % 44 % Total $ 2,481,336 11 % $ 2,233,976 13 % $ 1,979,719 Percentage of Total Net Sales 59 % 59 % 59 % Gross profit dollars in fiscal year 2020 increased 11%, primarily due to the increase in net sales compared to the year-ago period. Consolidated gross margin was relatively flat compared to fiscal year 2019. The fitness and consumer auto gross margin increases of 210 basis points and 365 basis points, respectively, were primarily attributable to product mix. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor segment. The marine and aviation gross margin decreases of 110 basis points and 115 basis points, respectively, were primarily attributable to product mix. The auto OEM gross margin decrease of 1,010 basis points was primarily attributable to product mix associated with growth in new auto OEM programs. This product mix and associated gross margin trend is generally expected to continue into 2021 and beyond. Advertising Expenses Advertising 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 66,157 (8 %) $ 71,772 11 % $ 64,707 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 5 % 7 % 8 % Outdoor 49,957 (4 %) 52,171 13 % 46,041 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 4 % 6 % 6 % Marine 21,549 6 % 20,411 12 % 18,284 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 3 % 4 % 4 % Aviation 2,921 (48 %) 5,667 (21 %) 7,207 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 0 % 1 % 1 % Auto 10,582 (27 %) 14,435 (25 %) 19,155 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 2 % 3 % 3 % Consumer Auto 10,387 (27 %) 14,174 (25 %) 18,803 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 4 % 4 % 4 % Auto OEM 195 (25 %) 261 (26 %) 352 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 0 % 0 % 0 % Total $ 151,166 (8 %) $ 164,456 6 % $ 155,394 Percentage of Total Net Sales 4 % 4 % 5 % 40 Advertising expense decreased 8% in absolute dollars and decreased slightly as a percent of revenue in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019. The overall decrease in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to decreased media advertising in fitness and outdoor and decreased cooperative advertising in consumer auto. These decreases were partially offset by increased cooperative advertising expense in fitness, outdoor, and marine. Advertising expenses in all operating segments decreased slightly as a percent of revenue compared to the prior year. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, General & Admin. Expenses 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 190,109 19 % $ 159,793 18 % $ 135,096 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 15 % 16 % Outdoor 143,714 15 % 124,650 3 % 120,588 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 13 % 14 % 15 % Marine 94,376 4 % 90,352 (8 %) 97,682 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 18 % 22 % Aviation 76,504 17 % 65,663 82 % 36,139 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 12 % 9 % 6 % Auto 65,542 (16 %) 78,110 (12 %) 88,672 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 14 % 14 % Consumer Auto 40,094 (25 %) 53,444 (25 %) 71,265 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 15 % 15 % 17 % Auto OEM 25,448 3 % 24,666 42 % 17,407 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 14 % 8 % Total $ 570,245 10 % $ 518,568 8 % $ 478,177 Percentage of Total Net Sales 14 % 14 % 14 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased 10% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the prior year. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to information technology costs and personnel related expenses. As noted above and in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for aviation, approximately $11 million less for marine, approximately $7 million less for outdoor, and not significantly different for fitness and auto. Research and Development Expense Research & Development 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 122,389 12 % $ 109,181 21 % $ 90,216 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 9 % 10 % 11 % Outdoor 105,021 20 % 87,581 23 % 71,115 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 9 % 10 % 9 % Marine 92,801 13 % 82,310 4 % 79,446 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 16 % 18 % Aviation 236,380 8 % 219,112 8 % 202,060 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 38 % 30 % 33 % Auto 149,094 39 % 107,182 (14 %) 124,968 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 32 % 20 % 20 % Consumer Auto 47,919 16 % 41,301 (11 %) 46,653 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 17 % 11 % 11 % Auto OEM 101,175 54 % 65,881 (16 %) 78,315 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 55 % 36 % 38 % Total $ 705,685 17 % $ 605,366 7 % $ 567,805 Percentage of Total Net Sales 17 % 16 % 17 % 41 Research and development expense increased 17% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period and increased slightly as a percent of revenue. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to engineering personnel costs across all of our operating segments and other expenses related to auto OEM programs. The auto OEM increase in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue was primarily attributable to higher engineering personnel costs and other expenses related to investments in auto OEM programs and a lower proportion of such costs being contractually reimbursable in fiscal year 2020. This trend of increasing auto OEM research and development expense is expected to continue in 2021 as we expect higher total costs and the majority of costs will not be contractually reimbursable. Operating Income Operating Income 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Fitness $ 318,884 66 % $ 191,858 6 % $ 181,745 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 24 % 18 % 21 % Outdoor 441,085 32 % 334,041 15 % 290,510 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 39 % 36 % 36 % Marine 175,724 60 % 109,876 73 % 63,344 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 27 % 22 % 14 % Aviation 137,203 (46 %) 252,943 24 % 204,746 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 22 % 34 % 34 % Auto (18,656 ) (133 %) 56,868 50 % 37,998 Percentage of Segment Net Sales (4 %) 10 % 6 % Consumer Auto 41,464 (34 %) 63,299 47 % 43,141 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 15 % 17 % 10 % Auto OEM (60,120 ) 835 % (6,431 ) 25 % (5,143 ) Percentage of Segment Net Sales (33 %) (4 %) (2 %) Total $ 1,054,240 11 % $ 945,586 21 % $ 778,343 Percentage of Total Net Sales 25 % 25 % 23 % Total operating income increased 11% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to fiscal year 2019. The growth in total operating income on an absolute dollar basis was the result of revenue growth as discussed above. Operating income, in absolute dollars and as a percent of revenue, decreased in aviation primarily due to a decline in sales compared to the year-ago period. Auto OEM experienced an operating loss in fiscal year 2020, and we expect this trend of an operating loss to continue in 2021, primarily due to a lower gross margin and increased expense associated with certain programs, as described above. Other Income (Expense) Other Income (Expense) 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Interest income $ 37,002 $ 52,817 $ 47,147 Foreign currency (losses) 2,825 (16,799 ) (7,616 ) Other income 9,343 5,618 5,373 Total $ 49,170 $ 41,636 $ 44,904 The average returns on cash and investments, including interest and capital gain/loss returns during the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, were 1.4% and 2.0%, respectively. Interest income decreased primarily due to lower yields on fixed-income securities. 42 Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements of a number of currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the Euro is the functional currency of several subsidiaries, and the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other notable currency exposures include the Australian Dollar, and Chinese Yuan. The majority of the Companys consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. The $2.8 million currency gain recognized in fiscal 2020 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Euro, Australian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Taiwan Dollar. During fiscal 2020, the U.S. Dollar weakened 9.2% against the Euro, 9.4% against the Australian Dollar, 7.2% against the Chinese Yuan, and 3.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in gains of $21.1 million, $6.5 million, $2.9 million, and $2.6 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 7.1% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $32.2 million. The remaining net currency gain of $1.9 million is related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. The $16.8 million currency loss recognized in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and weakening against the Taiwan Dollar, offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the British Pound Sterling. During fiscal 2019, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.3% against the Euro and weakened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in losses of $9.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.9% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a gain of $2.8 million. The remaining net currency loss of $3.2 million is related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. Income Tax Provision Income tax expense for the fiscal year ended December 26, 2020 was $111.1 million compared to income tax expense of $34.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019, representing a net increase of $76.4 million. Contributing to the year-over-year increase in income tax expense in fiscal year 2020 was an income tax benefit of $118.0 million recognized in fiscal year 2019 associated with the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets as a result of the October 2019 enactment of Switzerland federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform and related transitional measures. A revaluation of these assets performed in the fourth quarter of 2020 resulted in an $11.0 million income tax expense in fiscal year 2020. In connection with these transitional measures included in Switzerland tax reform, a reduced income tax rate will be utilized on certain Switzerland taxable income for up to five years. The Company also recognized a $14.3 million income tax benefit in fiscal 2020 due to the release of uncertain tax position reserves associated with a 2014 intercompany restructuring. Excluding the aforementioned $11.0 million income tax expense and $14.3 million income tax benefit in fiscal 2020, and the $118.0 million tax benefit in fiscal 2019, income tax expense for fiscal years 2020 and 2019 was $114.4 million and $152.7 million, respectively. In this comparison, income tax expense for fiscal year 2020 was lower primarily due to a transaction initiated by the Company in February 2020 between wholly-owned subsidiaries to migrate ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, the primary location of research, development, and executive management. The migration, which includes a multi-year intercompany license of intellectual property, has resulted in a favorable shift of income mix by jurisdiction and a reduction in expense related to uncertain tax positions. During the term of the license agreement, this transaction is expected to continue to result in a lower effective income tax rate as compared to the fiscal year 2019 effective income tax rate, excluding the $118.0 million income tax benefit in 2019 described above. The Company is pursuing an Advance Pricing Agreement between relevant jurisdictions related to this transaction. At the end of the license agreement, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the United States. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above net income increased 4% to $992.3 million from $952.5 million in the prior year. 43 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 26, 2020, we had approximately $3.0 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our short- and long-term projected working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements. It is managements goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Companys Board of Directors. The investment policys primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmins average interest rate returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018 were approximately 1.4%, 2.0% and 1.9%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral, and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 8 for additional information regarding marketable securities. Operating Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,135,267 $ 698,549 $ 919,520 The $436.7 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 was due to a decrease in cash used in working capital of $294.3 million (which included an increase of $14.5 million in net receipts of accounts receivable, a decrease of $198.9 million in cash paid for inventory, a decrease of $13.6 million net cash used for income taxes, and a decrease of $92.0 million net cash used in other activities primarily driven by prior year payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement, partially offset by an increase of $24.7 million net cash used in accounts payable). Additional changes were due to the year-over-year increase in net income of $39.8 million and an increase in other non-cash adjustments to net income of $102.6 million primarily driven by a prior year income tax benefit of $118.0 million associated with the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets. Investing Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net cash used in investing activities $ (260,524 ) $ (450,746 ) $ (307,503 ) The $190.2 million decrease in cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in cash payments for acquisitions of $151.6 million, an increase in net redemptions of marketable securities of $104.2 million, and partially offset by increased net purchases of property and equipment of $65.9 million. Financing Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2020 December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 Net cash used in financing activities $ (461,760 ) $ (416,028 ) $ (286,161 ) The $45.7 million increase in cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2020 compared to fiscal year 2019 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $33.4 million. Our declared dividend has increased from $0.53 per share for the four calendar quarters beginning in June 2018 to $0.57 per share for the four calendar quarters beginning in June 2019, and to $0.61 per share for the four calendar quarters beginning in June 2020. 44 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments As of December 26, 2020, operating leases comprise the substance of the Companys commercial commitments with long-term scheduled payments, as summarized below: Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating Leases $ 107,859 $ 22,900 $ 36,965 $ 24,965 $ 23,029 The Company is party to certain other commitments, which include purchases of raw materials, capital expenditures, advertising, and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. The aggregate amount of purchase orders and other commitments open as of December 26, 2020 was approximately $880.0 million. We cannot determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations because purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are generally based on our current needs and are typically fulfilled within short periods of time. We may be required to make significant cash outlays related to unrecognized tax benefits. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits of $85.0 million as of December 26, 2020, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Income Taxes and Note 6 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.