Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company's actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A Risk Factors. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. Part I Item 1. Business This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has four business segments: Marine, Automotive/Mobile, Outdoor/Fitness, and Aviation. The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (Garmin Cayman). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the Redomestication). Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF) per share, of Garmin. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group. Garmins annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmins directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmins Internet website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmins website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K. 3 Company Overview Garmin is a leading, worldwide provider of navigation, communication and information devices and applications, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System (GPS) technology. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures and markets a diverse family of hand-held, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications and information products for the automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine, and general aviation markets. Overview of the Global Positioning System The Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology. The system consists of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage. Access to the system is provided free of charge by the U.S. government. Prior to May 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense intentionally degraded the accuracy of civilian GPS signals in a process known as Selective Availability (SA) for national security purposes. SA variably degraded GPS position accuracy to a radius of 100 meters. On May 2, 2000, the U.S. Department of Defense discontinued SA. In a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. does not intend to implement SA again and is committed to preventing hostile use of GPS through regional denial of service, minimizing the impact to peaceful users. With SA removed, a GPS receiver can calculate its position to an accuracy of approximately 10 meters or less, enhancing the utility of GPS for most applications. The accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States and portions of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. The FAA announced on July 11, 2003 that the WAAS system had achieved initial operating capability and that the system was available for instrument flight use with appropriately certified avionics equipment. Since that time, the FAA has installed additional ground reference stations and has launched additional WAAS satellites. Japans MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) achieved initial operating capability for en route, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in September 27, 2007. Garmin is working closely with the European Satellite Services Provider (ESSP) in preparation for the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service declaration which is planned in 2011. Recent Developments in the Companys Business Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 81 million products, which includes the delivery of over 16 million products during 2010. Acquisitions In September 2010 Garmin acquired MetriGear, Inc., the creator of a pedal-based power measurement solution for cyclists that integrates a force and motion sensor platform into the spindles of bicycle pedals to measure a cyclists performance. In October 2010 Garmin acquired Belanor AS, the distributor of Garmins automotive, outdoor recreation, fitness and marine products in Norway. 4 Automotive/Mobile Product Introductions In January 2010 Garmin announced the zmo 220 and zmo 665 touchscreen navigators for motorcycles, ecoRoute hd, a device that transforms a compatible Garmin navigation device into a real-time onboard diagnostics computer, and Voice Studio, a free PC application that lets anyone record their own voice to create custom pre-recorded navigation prompts for use on compatible Garmin navigation devices. In April 2010 Garmin announced the nvi 3700 series of portable navigation devices featuring an ultra-thin, pocket-friendly design and large-screen, high-resolution glass displays with capacitive touch panels In September 2010 Garmin announced the nvi 2200 and nvi 2300 series of entry-level portable navigation devices and the nLink! 1695 five-inch touchscreen portable navigation device that connects drivers with relevant, online information from Garmins nLink! service, including links to online information like Google Local Search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, flight status, and other real-time, location-relevant content. In November 2010 Garmin announced that it would provide an integrated navigation package for the 2011 Suzuki Grand Vitara and SX4 models which would offer connectivity to wireless online information like Google local search, traffic, weather, fuel prices, movie listings, flight status, local events, and white page telephone listings During 2010, Garmin-Asus, a co-branded alliance between Garmin and ASUSTeK Computer Inc. (ASUS), introduced the nvifone A10, A50 and M10 location-centric mobile handset models. In October 2010 Garmin and ASUS announced that they would not introduce any new co-branded handset models going forward but would continue to sell and support models that they had already introduced to the market. ASUS announced that it would design and manufacture new models of ASUS-branded mobile phones, some of which would include preloaded Garmin navigation and Location Based Service (LBS) applications. Garmin announced that it would expand its mobile handset application development and would offer navigation and other applications through certain consumer application stores. Outdoor/ Fitness Product Introductions Garmin expanded its line of products for golfers in 2010 with the introduction of the Approach G3 golf-specific handheld and the Approach S1 GPS wristwatch designed specifically for golf. Garmin also expanded its line of products for cyclists in 2010 with the introduction of the Edge 800 cycling computer which combines the most popular aspects of the industry-leading Edge 500 and Edge 705 while adding a touchscreen interface. Garmin added to its line of products for running enthusiasts in 2010 with the introduction of the Forerunner 110, 210 and 410 GPS-enabled sports watches. In June 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP 62 series of rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. Also in June 2010 Garmin announced the DC 40 tracking collar, for Garmins Astro GPS Dog Tracking System. In October 2010 Garmin announced chirp, a wireless beacon designed specifically for geocaching, which can communicate with, and be programmed by, any compatible wireless-enabled Garmin handheld. In December 2010 Garmin announced the creation of OpenCaching.com, a free online community for creating, sharing and finding geocaches around the world. Marine Product Introductions In January 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP 700 series of seven-inch touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters with radar capability and built-in sonar. 5 In February 2010 Garmin announced the AIS 300 receiver that enables monitoring of other nearby Class A and Class B Automatic Identification System (AIS)-enabled vessels that may pose a collision risk. In April 2010 Garmin announced the GPSMAP 78 series of marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. In September 2010 Garmin announced the GHP 12 sailboat autopilot system for 20- to 70-foot sailboats equipped with linear-actuated steering systems. In November 2010 Garmin announced the echo series of standalone fishfinders with Garmin HD-ID target tracking technology. Also in November 2010 Garmin announced the GMR 404 xHD and GMR 406 xHD, two new 4 kilowatt open-array marine radars. Aviation Product Introductions and Certifications During 2010 Garmin announced two new products for the helicopter market, the G500H all-glass avionics system designed specifically for helicopters and a Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) for use with Garmins GNS 430W/530W navigators. In July 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing a new stability augmentation system called Garmins Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system which would be offered as an option for Garmins G1000 and G3000 integrated flight decks and which would assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Also in July 2010 Garmin announced the GSR 56 Iridium datalink and GDL 59 data logger and Wi-Fi datalink and announced that the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) had granted Supplemental Type Certification (STC) for the G1000 integrated flight deck in the Cessna CitationJet. In October 2010 Garmin announced that it was developing the G5000 integrated flight deck for the Part 25 business jet market and Cessna Aircraft Company announced that it was developing a larger version of its Citation X jet which would feature the Garmin G5000 flight deck. In December 2010 Garmin announced that had received the European Aviation Safety Agencys (EASA) validation of the U.S. STC (Supplemental Type Certificate) for the installation of the Garmin G1000 avionics suite in the King Air 200 and B200. Products Garmin has achieved a leading market position and a history of growth in revenues and profits by offering ergonomically designed, user-friendly products with innovative features and designs covering a broad range of applications and price points. Garmins target markets are currently broken down into its four main business segments automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation. Automotive/Mobile Garmin offers a broad range of automotive navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. The table below includes a sampling of the primary automotive and mobile products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world . 6 nvi (52 models) The nvi is Garmins popular personal navigation device (PND). All nvi models combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmins uniquely simple user interface. Different nvi models and optional add-ons offer a plethora of additional feature sets, including a wide screen display, integrated traffic receiver for traffic data (including some models with lifetime traffic updates), bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice recognition, speed limit indication, lane assist, 3-D building view, junction view, Bluetooth hands-free capability, built-in maps of Europe, and the ability to add custom points of interest and a custom GPS voice. Numerous newer nvi models also offer a feature called ecoRoute, which is a feature designed to help improve the vehicles fuel efficiency by suggesting route calculations based upon less fuel usage and a driving challenge program that helps reinforce fuel-efficient driving practices. Garmins newest nvi models the 3700 series offer an award-winning, super-thin design and such other newer features as a multi-touch glass display, nRoute technology, 3-D terrain view, and pedestrian mode. In fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, the nvi class of products represented approximately 54%, 63%, and 64% of Garmins total consolidated revenues. zmo (4 models) Motorcycle-specific navigators with features including a glove-friendly touch screen with high bright sunlight-readable display, motorcycle mount, vibration-tested design, and Bluetooth wireless technology. An SD (secure digital) card slot allows riders to share their favori te places and rides with fellow zmo riders. The zmo 660 features 3-D building view and lane assist and a digital fuel gauge. The zmo 220 offers a smaller form factor than previous models, while the 665 includes an antenna for XM Satellite Radio , XM NavWeather and XM NavTraffic (subscription is required for XM content). StreetPilot app Launched in January 2011, this smartphone application allows Apple iPhone or iPad users to download premium Garmin navigation to their device, allowing for turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other popular Garmin navigation features. Garmin Mobile for BlackBerry Garmin Mobile for BlackBerry is a subscription-based software application that lets compatible BlackBerry devices function as versatile GPS navigators. Outdoor/Fitness The table below includes a sampling of the outdoor and fitness products that Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world. Forerunner (9 models) Compact, lightweight training assistants for athletes with integrated GPS sensor (except for FR60 fitness watch) that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Some models also offer a heart rate monitoring function. The FR 60 is an entry-level advanced fitness watch that allows runners and walkers to track their workouts and automatically upload their data (via a wireless USB ANT Stick) to a personal computer. The Forerunner 405 is a compact-sized, wrist-worn GPS-enabled device that allows runners and joggers to track their speed, distance, heart rate and location, access their training history or challenge a Virtual Partner and automatically upload their data wirelessly to a personal computer. The Forerunner 405CX adds heart-rate based calorie computation and improved comfort to the numerous features available on the Forerunner 405. The Forerunner 310XT model, which was designed specifically for triathletes, is water-resistant to 50m and tracks biking and running data (and optional heart rate data). The Forerunner 410 the highest end model in the Forerunner family offers an enhanced touch bezel designed to allow users to quickly scroll and select features on the run. 7 Edge (6 models) Integrated personal training systems designed for cyclists. The Edge 205 measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, altitude and more. The Edge 305 adds a heart rate monitor and/or wireless speed/pedaling cadence sensor. The Edge 605 and 705 provide mapping capabilities (including street navigation) and a 2.2 color display in addition to tracking vertical profiles, climb and descent, altitude, speed, distance, and time. The Edge 500 is geared toward performance-driven cyclists by offering the ability to track even more performance data in a streamlined form factor. The newest model the Edge 800 added a touchscreen interface to the Edge family of products. Dakota (2 models) The Dakota series is Garmins entry level series of handheld GPS navigators with built-in mapping. The Dakota 10 is a rugged, palm-sized navigator that offers a touchscreen display, high-sensitivity GPS, and a built-in worldwide basemap. The Dakota 20 adds a barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, and a microSD card slot for optional customized maps. The 20 model also allows a user to share waypoints, tracks, routes and geocaches wirelessly with other compatible Dakota, Foretrex , Oregon and Colorado users. Oregon (4 models) The Oregon series combines a bright 3 inch color touchscreen, rugged design and a variety of hiker-friendly features. The Oregon 450 and Oregon 450t offer a rugged, sunlight-readable, touchscreen along with a built-in basemap with shaded relief, a high-sensitivity receiver, barometric altimeter, 3-axis electronic compass, microSD card slot, picture viewer and more. The high-end Oregon 550 and 550t models each come with a built-in 3.2 megapixel autofocus digital camera with 4x digital zoom, and each photo taken by these devices is automatically geotagged with the location of where it was taken, allowing the user to navigate back to that exact spot in the future. Rino (5 models) Handheld two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) radios that integrate two-way voice communications with GPS navigation. Features include patented peer-to-peer position reporting so you can transmit your location to another Rino radio. The Rino 110 offers an FRS/GMRS radio plus basic GPS navigator. The Rino 120 adds an internal basemap and MapSource compatibility for street-level mapping. The Rino 130 has 24 MB of internal memory, built-in electronic compass, barometric sensor, and National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) weather radio receiver. The Rino 520HCx has a high sensitivity GPS receiver, 5 watts of transmit power, color display, mini-USB interface, and a turn-by turn automatic route calculation for use in automobiles. The Rino 530HCx has all of the features of the Rino 520HCx, plus a seven-channel weather receiver, electronic compass, and barometric altimeter. 8 GPSMAP 62 (3 models) Rugged outdoor handheld devices for hunters, hikers, geocachers and outdoors enthusiasts. The basic GPSMAP 62 includes a built-in worldwide basemap with shaded relief. The GPSMAP 62s adds a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass and wireless connectivity for sharing routes, tracks, waypoints and geocaches between other compatible Garmin handhelds. The GPSMAP 62s also includes a barometric altimeter that tracks changes in pressure to pinpoint the precise altitude. In addition to these features, the GPSMAP 62st includes preloaded 100K topographic maps for the entire United States (or preloaded 50K topographic mapping of Canada for the Canadian version). Approach (3 models) The Approach G5 is a waterproof, touchscreen, handheld GPS for golfers that features over 14,000 preloaded golf course maps. Approach G5 uses a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to measure individual shot distances and show the exact yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. A new statistic-tracking feature was made available by download for the G5 in 2010 that allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics. The Approach G3 is a smaller, lighter version of the G5, yet still offers over 14,000 preloaded courses. Neither model requires any ongoing subscription fees. In October 2010, Garmin announced the newest Approach model the Approach S1. The S1 is a wearable golf watch that displays precise yardages to the front, back and middle of greens and comes preloaded with over 14,000 courses. Astro High sensitivity GPS-enabled dog tracking system. The Astro is designed to pinpoint up to ten dogs positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system. The system also provides a Dog Tracker page and a Covey Counter tm to assist the hunter. It is loaded with many of the features of our outdoor devices including: barometric altimeter, electronic compass, microSD slot, area calculator and a waterproof exterior. GTU-10 GPS Tracker On January 4, 2011, Garmin announced the GTU10, which represents a new category of product for Garmin. The GTU10 is a GPS locator that combines a web-based tracking service with GPS technology so the user can keep track of children, pets and property by monitoring the devices location through either a phone or the internet. The GTU 10 is expected to launch in the first quarter of 2011. Marine Garmins marine products include handhelds, network products and multifunction displays, fixed-mount GPS/chartplotter products, instruments, fishfinders, radar, autopilots, VHF radios, marine networking products, and sounder products. The table below includes a sampling of some of the marine products that Garmin currently offers to consumers. Marine Chartplotters and Networking Products GPSMAP 7000 series (4 models) The GPSMAP 7000 series of large format multi-function displays introduced Garmins G Motion technology, which represents an upgrade in speed, smoothness and clarity over prior plotters. G Motion technology delivers ultra-smooth map panning and zooming with virtually seamless graphical updating in all dimensions. The 7000 series chartplotters also feature a low-level backlight display and a backlit keypad for use in low-light conditions without compromising vision. The GPSMAP 7x15 series offers a huge 15-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable touchscreen display, and is offered in two models the GPSMAP 7015 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 7215, which comes pre-loaded with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas. Mariners can also opt for the same XGA resolution in a 12-inch diagonal screen configuration with the GPSMAP 7012 and GPSMAP 7212 models, which offer a worldwide basemap and coastal charts respectively. All models are compatible with an optional wireless remote and a wireless mouse for additional flexibility and also offer expanded plug-and-play access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity (the Garmin Marine Network is a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data). 9 GPSMAP 6000 series (4 models) Like the 7000 series, the 6000 series models also offer Garmins G Motion technology and the features to improve visibility in low-light conditions. The GPSMAP 6x12 series features a traditional soft-key interface with an alphanumeric keypad and a 12-inch diagonal XGA (1024 x 768 pixel) sunlight readable display. Within this family, Garmin offers the GPSMAP 6012 with an enhanced worldwide satellite imagery basemap; and the GPSMAP 6212 with highly detailed U.S. coastal charts and Explorer Charts for the Bahamas preloaded. For a smaller display, the GPSMAP 6x08 series offers an 8-inch VGA (640 x 480) sunlight readable display with a soft-key interface. The models in the GPSMAP 6000 series are all compatible with an optional wireless remote and also offer expanded plug-and-play access to onboard sensors, with NMEA 2000 and Garmin Marine Network connectivity. GPSMAP 5000 series (6 models) These touch-screen multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, XM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other data) offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 5212 and 5208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmins BlueChart g2 Vision charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 5215 and 5015 offer 15-inch diagonal sunlight-readable touchscreen displays. GPSMAP 4000 series/ 4200 series (6 models) These multifunction displays for the Garmin Marine Network offer ease of use and video-quality resolution and color. The 4212 and 4208 come pre-loaded with detailed U.S. coastal charts, including Explorer Charts, and are compatible with Garmins BlueChart g2 Vision charts (sold separately) which offer high-resolution satellite imagery, 3-D map perspective, aerial reference photos, and auto guidance. The 4210 and 4010 feature 10.4-inch diagonal sunlight- readable displays and Garmins newer marine user interface. GPSMAP 6x0and 7x0 series (6 models) The 6x0 series chartplotters offer a super-bright WVGA touchscreen display and provide navigational support for both marine mode and automotive mode (when loaded with optional City Navigator NT road maps for North America). The 7x0 models are touchscreen controlled stand-alone marine chartplotters offering radar capability and built-in sonar.. GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series (12 models) Building upon the success of the GPSMAP 400 and 500 series, the new chartplotters in the GPSMAP 5x6 and 5x1 series come standard with an internal high-sensitivity GPS receiver that allows for faster acquisition times and better satellite tracking so that boaters are able to acquire and maintain a GPS fix more easily. In addition, these units boast an improved, high-speed digital design that will increase map drawing and panning speeds. The sounder (s) version of each model comes with a powerful dual-frequency transducer that clearly illustrates depth contours, fish targets and structures in either fresh or salt water. Many of the new models in this series are also NMEA 2000 certified and can interface with Garmins full lineup of NMEA 2000 marine sensors and autopilots, as well as many other third-party sensors. 10 GPSMAP 4x1 series (6 models) With a 4-inch QVGA sunlight-readable display, the GPSMAP 4x1 series was designed for the boater who wants high performance in a small package. These units feature a high-sensitivity GPS receiver and faster processors, and are offered with the same cartography configuration as the GPSMAP 5x1 series. Likewise, the GPSMAP 4x1s series is also available with a built-in sonar with a 500-watt RMS dual-frequency transducer for offshore use and a 400-watt RMS with a dual beam transducer for inland use. For satellite weather and radio data, the GPSMAP 441 and 421 are also compatible with the GXM 51 receiver. GSD 21 and 22 These black-box sounders interface with Garmin display units and chartplotters and enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. GMS 10 The GMS 10 Network Port Expander is the "nerve center" of the Garmin Marine Network. This 100-Mbit switch is designed to support the connection of multiple sensors to the Garmin Marine Network. Other Marine Products GMI 10 The GMI 10 is a NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument that displays data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners can use the GMI 10 to display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon what sensors are connected. GPSMAP 78 (3 models) Marine-friendly GPS handhelds featuring a new contemporary industrial design with rubber side grips. The flagship GPSMAP 78sc model adds high-end features such as a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States. VHF Marine Radios (4 models) This series of marine radios offers differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The VHF 100 is an entry-level, NMEA 0183 compatible VHF marine radio. The VHF 200 is NMEA 2000 compatible. The next step up is the VHF 300, which is designed for 35+ foot boats and is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible and offers multi-station support. Also designed for 35+ foot boats, the VHF 300 AIS is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time. Marine Autopilot Systems (4 models) The newest entry to Garmins marine autopilot lineup is the GHP 12, a full-featured marine autopilot designed specifically for sailboats. This second-generation autopilot is designed for 20- to 70-foot sailboats with linear-actuated steering systems. For power boats, the GHP 10 autopilot comes with Garmins patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing the helmsman to maneuver the boat. This autopilot automatically re-engages when a steady course is held by the helmsman. The TR-1 Gold Marine Autopilot offers worry-free remote steering and speed control to operators of small gasoline outboard motor boats up to 20 horsepower. Finally, the GHP 10V Autopilot System for Volvo Penta IPS and Sterndrive Joystick Systems is approved for use with boats that have an integrated Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system and features Garmins proven and innovative Shadow Drive technology a patented capability that automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, allowing for quick and safe manual maneuvers without manually disengaging the autopilot. 11 Fishfinders (10 models) Garmin offers 10 different fishfinder options spanning various price points. The latest addition to Garmins fishfinder lineup is five different models of Garmins new echo fishfinder series, a line of standalone fishfinders that all offer an updated look and new Garmin HD-ID target tracking technology. The echo line ranges in price points from models with grayscale displays to the highest-end echo 550C, which features a video-quality 640x480 pixel 5-inch VGA screen, a powerful 500-watt sonar transmitter, and offers fish arch display and bottom tracking as deep as 1,900 feet. In addition to the echo series, Garmin also offers five additional fishfinder options. All of these models feature Garmins Ultrascroll technology, which allows boaters to get a faster refresh rate on their sonar display, and dual-beam transducer operation. Three of these models offer color displays. The Fishfinder 400C comes with dual beam or dual frequency transducers for easy adaptability to either freshwater or saltwater fishing. It also offers a new, easy-to-use interface and built in CANet connectivity to enable sonar data to be shared with compatible Garmin chartplotters. Radar (11 models) Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter so that the chartplotter can double as the radar screen. The GMR 18 and 24 models are digital radome products in various sizes and power specifications. The GMR 404 and 406 open array radar scanners provide even greater clarity and a 72 nautical mile range. The GMR 18 HD and GMR 24 HD radomes feature digital signal processing providing sharper radar imagery and improved target separation. The newest generation of open-array digital radar scanners are the GMR 1204/1206 xHD, the GMR 604/606 xHD and the GMR 404/406 xHD models, which transmit with 12, 6 and 4 kilowatts of power respectively. All six of these open-array scanners have a maximum effective range of 72 nautical miles. These new xHD scanners provide up to eight times more sampling data than Garmins current open-array offerings. Aviation Garmins aviation product line includes GPS-enabled navigation, VHF communications transmitters/receivers, multi-function displays, electronic flight instrumentation systems (EFIS), automatic flight control systems, traffic advisory systems and traffic collision avoidance systems, instrument landing system (ILS) receivers, surveillance products, audio panels, cockpit datalink systems and more. 12 Garmins aviation products have won prestigious awards throughout the industry for their innovative features and ease of use. The GNS 430/530W offers multiple features and capabilities integrated into a single product. This high level of integration minimizes the use of precious space in the cockpit, enhances the quality and safety of flight through the use of modern designs and components and reduces the cost of equipping an aircraft with modern electronics. The GNS 430 was recognized by Flying Magazine as the Editors Choice Product of the Year for 1998. In 1994, and again in 2000, Garmin earned recognition from the Aircraft Electronics Association for outstanding contribution to the general aviation electronics industry. The GPSMAP 295 won Aviation Consumer Magazines Gear of the Year award for best aviation portable product in 2000 and again in 2001. Flying Magazines editors awarded the GPSMAP 396 with a 2005 Editors Choice Award for outstanding achievements. The GPSMAP 496, introduced in 2006, won the 2006 Gear of the Year award from Aviation Consumer magazine. Flying Magazines editors awarded Garmin a 2007 Flying Editors Choice Award for making the safety and precision of WAAS (Wide Area Augmentation System) available in its GPS navigation systems. Garmin was also selected as Best GPS Ever by Aviation Consumer magazine for the GPSMAP 696 in 2009, and in 2010 the Garmin aera series aviation GPS was selected as best portable product. Garmin has been ranked No. 1 among aviation cockpit electronics manufacturers for product support in Professional Pilot magazines survey of its readers in each of the last seven survey years. Aviation International News also ranked Garmin No. 1 in product support in 2010 and in each of the preceding seven years, as well. Garmin received the Airline Technology Achievement Award from Air Transport World Magazine in January 2005 for championing the development of Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) technology, an enabling technology for air traffic management. Garmins aviation products are sold in both new aircraft/helicopters and the retrofit market where existing aircraft/helicopters are fitted with the latest electronics from Garmins broad product line. Garmin has also expanded its range of avionics offerings to leading General Aviation aircraft manufacturers such as the Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Hawker Beechcraft Corporation, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Embraer, Piper Aircraft, Inc., DAHER- SOCATA and Quest Aircraft through the installation of the G1000 integrated flight deck as original equipment aboard new aircraft. This system integrates attitude, heading, air data, navigation, communication, engine monitoring, and other aircraft functions into a single cohesive system which interfaces with the flight crew using a set of large, bright TFT displays. The G1000 also includes an integrated autopilot the GFC700. Garmin also has expanded its G1000 certifications to the business jet segment, such as Cessnas Citation Mustang jet and Embraers Phenom 100 and Phenom 300. Garmin has also announced its next generation integrated flight deck systems, the G3000 and G5000. Cessna Aircraft Company announced in October 2010 that they have selected Garmins G5000 for their flagship business jet, the Citation Ten. Both Honda Aircraft Corporation and Piper Aircraft simultaneously announced that the G3000 has been selected for the HondaJet and PiperJet respectively. The table below includes a sampling of some of the aviation products currently offered by Garmin: Handheld and portable aviation products: aera series (4 models) Garmins newest aviation handheld series combines the latest aviation portable with a full-featured automotive GPS, allowing pilots to transition between aviation to automotive mode with one touch. Featuring a crisp 4.3-inch QVGA wide-format display with touchscreen interface, all four aera models come with preloaded automotive maps, a built-in terrain/obstacles aviation database, patented Panel Page instrument display, and other features. When in aviation mode, pilots see colorful icons that use intuitive pictures and labels to indicate their function. The exterior of each aera model (500, 510, 550 and 560) is identical, but the software features of each model are tailored to those seeking an entry, mid or high-level aviation handheld. GPSMAP 695/696 The GPSMAP 696 offers a bright 7-inch screen, preloaded detailed electronic charts, preloaded airways and IFR map mode. The GPSMAP 696 has a receiver for XM radio and XM WX Satellite Weather (U.S. customers only) that gives next generation radar (NEXRAD), aviation routine weather reports (METARs), terminal aerodrome forecasts (TAFs), temporary flight restrictions (TFRs), lightning, winds aloft, turbulence forecasts, and several other important weather products (XM subscription required). The GPSMAP 695 has the same features except for XM radio and weather. In July 2010, Garmin announced that the 695/696 would receive new enhanced chart capabilities. 13 Pilot My-Cast SM Pilot My-Cast by Garmin is a premium flight planning, flight plan filing, and pre-flight weather application for display on compatible mobile phones. Compared to other aviation weather cell phone applications, Pilot My-Cast is unique because it receives aviation data directly from the National Weather Service, Environment Canada, and Federal Aviation Administration. Pilot My-Cast is available for both the iPhone and iPad . Integrated avionics systems: G5000 Following the announcement of the G3000 one year earlier, in October 2010 Garmin announced the G5000, the first touchscreen-controlled integrated glass avionics suite designed for FAR Part 25 business jets. The G5000 which is scalable for use in a wide range of two-crew aircraft, from light jets to super-midsize and larger models is designed specifically for crew-flown turbine aircraft and combines a dual multi-sensor flight management system (FMS), touchscreen vehicle management units, and multi-pane cockpit displays. These widescreen displays with touchscreen controls give pilots more useful information at their fingertips than ever before, such as worldwide weather, Garmins synthetic vision technology (SVT), aircraft synoptics, electronic flight charts, and more. G3000 Announced in October 2009, the G3000, which is designed for use in FAR Part 23 turbine aircraft, is the first touchscreen-controlled integrated flightdeck for light turbine aircraft. It features extra-wide 14.1-inch displays with split-screen MFD viewing functionality and PFD terrain simulation in 3-D perspective with SVT Synthetic Vision Technology. In July 2010, Garmin announced a new stability augmentation function for the G3000 (and its predecessor G1000) called Garmins Electronic Stability and Protection (Garmin ESP) system. This electronic monitoring and correction technology for G3000 and G1000 integrated flight decks works to assist the pilot in maintaining the aircraft in a safe, flight-stable condition, helping in certain situations to prevent the onset of stalls and spins, steep spirals or other loss-of-control conditions should the pilot become distracted, disoriented or incapacitated during flight. Garmin ESP will be offered as an option on select G3000 and G1000-equipped aircraft. G1000 The G1000 integrates navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, surveillance and engine information on large high-resolution color displays. The G1000 offers general aviation airplane manufacturers an easy-to-install solution for flight displays and provides the aircraft owner the benefits of a state-of-the-art avionics system which relies on modern technologies such as solid state components and bright, sunlight-readable TFT displays. G600 The G600 brings the style and function of an all-glass integrated avionics suite to the retrofit market for FAR Part 23 Class I, II or III aircraft. The G600 incorporates two individual displays a PFD and MFD in a customized package specifically designed for easy retrofit installation. The G600 is designed to communicate and integrate with Garmins WAAS enabled panel mount products, and provides essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain and traffic. Garmin has received the FAAs Approved Model List Supplemental Type Certification (AML STC) for the G600, which will simplify certification for over 300 different aircraft models. G500 Designed specifically for FAR Part 23 Class I/Class II aircraft (singles and twins under 6,000 lbs.), the G500 is an affordable, dual-screen electronic flight display that works with a pilots separate Garmin avionics stack to provide a fully TSOd glass cockpit retrofit option. The G500 does not include all of the same standard functionality as the G600 (for example, the G500 does not offer SVT (Synthetic Vision Technology) or a standard GAD 43 interface adapter. 14 G500H An all-glass avionics system designed specifically for the VFR Part 27 helicopter market. The G500H contains dual 6.5-inch LCD screens, mounted side-by-side in a single bezel, which puts Primary Flight Display (PFD) and Multi-Function Display (MFD) capabilities right in front the helicopter pilot. The G500H has been optimized for rotorcraft and offers features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT), helicopter-specific databases with over 7,000 heliports and nearly 30,000 additional low-altitude obstacles, XM WX Satellite Weather with NEXRAD, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources. G900X An all-glass integrated avionics system specifically designed for kitplane builders of the Lancair and Vans RV-series aircraft. The G900X is a fully-customizable glass cockpit for installation in experimental/kitbuilt and light sport aircraft. The G900X offers a customizable PFD/MFD combination that features one, two or three all-glass displays; magnetometer; ADAHRS (combined air data and AHRS unit) and engine monitoring. GDU 370/375 Multifunction displays for the light sport retrofit and experimental aircraft markets. Panel-mount aviation products: 400W Series (3 models) The GNS 430W is the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) successor to Garmins popular GNS 430, which was the worlds first all-in-one IFR certified GPS navigation receiver/traditional VHF navigation receiver/instrument landing systems receiver and VHF communication transmitter/receiver. Features available in different 400 series models include 4-color map graphics, GPS, communication and navigation capabilities. In 2010, Garmin announced a new Helicopter Terrain Awareness and Warning System (HTAWS) as an option for the GNS 430W/530W series navigators. When added to the GNS 430W/530W, helicopter pilots will receive graphical and audible alerts of potential terrain and obstacle conflicts along the flight path. 500W Series (2 models) These units combine the features of the 400W series along with a larger 5 color display. The 530W Series comes standard with Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) capability and may be ordered with or upgraded to Class B Terrain Awareness and Warning System (TAWS-B) capability. GTS TAS and TCAS I Systems The GTS 800 series of traffic avoidance products combines active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use Garmins patent-pending CLEAR CAS technology and correlates automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) with radar targets. The GTS 800 TAS is a lower-cost system, offering 40 watts of transmit power and a range of up to 12 nautical miles. The GTS 820 TAS delivers 250 watts of transmit power and up to 40 nautical miles of interrogation range. The GTS 850 TCAS I satisfies all TCAS I collision avoidance criteria for higher-capability turboprops and jets. It features the same 250 watt performance as the GTS 820, and also meets the FAAs TCAS I certification criteria 15 GI-102A & 106A Course deviation indicators (CDIs). The GI-106A features an instrument landing system receiver to aid in landing. GMA 240, 340 & 347 The GMA 340 is a feature-rich audio panel with six-place stereo intercom and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. The GMA 347 has automatic squelch, digital clearance recorder, and a full-duplex telephone interface. The GMA 340 and 347 are both TSOd. The GMA 240 is a versatile, non-TSOd audio panel designed for experimental and light sport aircraft. GTX 330 & 330D FAA-certified Mode S transponders with data link capability, including local air traffic information at FAA radar sites equipped with Traffic Information Service (TIS). These transponders may also be optionally upgraded to provide 1090 MHz Extended Squitter (ES) transmission capabilities, which will increase situational awareness once the Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) system is fully implemented. GTX 320A,327 & 328 FAA-certified transponders which transmit altitude or flight identification to air traffic control radar systems or other aircrafts air traffic avoidance devices and feature solid-state construction for longer life. The GTX 327 offers a digital display with timing functions. The 328 is designed exclusively for Europe and satisfies the European requirement for a Mode S solution that meets the reduced certification requirements for the VFR Mode S mandate. GDL 90 The GDL 90 was the first airborne Automatic Dependent Surveillance-Broadcast (ADS-B) product certified by the FAA to TSO C145A standards. The GDL 90 allows pilots in the cockpit and air traffic controllers on the ground to see aircraft traffic with much more precision than has ever been possible before without the costly infrastructure of ground based tracking radar. The GDL 90 relies on the infrastructure that is part of the FAAs Safe Flight 21 program. This program is currently under development with implementation of the ground-based portion of the ADS-B network taking place along the East Coast and other selected areas of the U.S.A. Additional installations of the ADS-B ground stations are planned. The ground stations can track aircraft movement and eventually are expected to be used to broadcast traffic and weather services. Pilots equipped with the GDL 90 and operating within the ground station coverage area will receive aircraft traffic and real-time weather information free of charge. GSR 56 The GSR 56 is Garmins newest datalink product. It provides pilots with access to on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and near real-time position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required). In addition to the many on-demand satellite weather features, the GSR 56 offers a worldwide tracking solution that continuously monitors an aircrafts status enroute. It can automatically provide GPS-referenced position reports at predetermined intervals so those on the ground can track a planes flight status and position. GDL 69 and 69A The GDL 69 offers the ability to provide real-time weather information to the aircraft which can be displayed on one of several panel-mounted devices, such as the GNS 430, GNS 530, MX20, and G1000 systems. The GDL 69 and GDL 69A receive real-time weather information broadcast by the XM WX Satellite radio system. In addition, the GDL 69A expands the utility of the system by providing CD quality audio provided by XM Satellite Radio (separate subscriptions for weather data and audio required). GMX 200 A large (6.5 inch) sunlight-readable, high-resolution, multi-function display. SL 30 and SL 40 The SL30 is a compact VHF navigation and communications unit that combines a 760-channel VHF communications radio with 200-channel glideslope and localizer receivers. The SL40 is a 760-channel VHF communications radio only. Both the SL30 and SL40 feature 10 watt communications transmitters. 16 GWX 68 The GWX 68 is an all-in-one antenna/receiver/transmitter that brings real-time weather to Garmins newest multi-function displays. Sales and Marketing Garmins non-aviation products are sold through a worldwide network of approximately 4,000 independent dealers and distributors in approximately 100 countries who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customers purchases represented 10% or more of Garmins consolidated revenues in the fiscal year ended December 25, 2010. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmins offices in Olathe, Kansas (North, South and Central America ), in the U.K. (Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa), France, Germany, Italy, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Belgium, Norway, Netherlands, Poland, Australia (also covering New Zealand), China and in Taiwan (Asia). Garmins distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmins global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Garmins U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house sales associates. Some of Garmins larger consumer products dealers and distributors include: Best Buy one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers; Amazon.com internet retailer; Costco an international chain of membership warehouses that carry quality, brand name merchandise; Halfords a large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; Petra a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers; Target one of the nations largest general merchandise retailers; Wal-Mart the worlds largest mass retailer; and Wynit a large distributor who sells to a wide range of dealers. Garmins Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmins in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmins Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Companys Asia sales and marketing effort. Garmins retrofit avionics and aviation portable products are sold through select aviation distributors around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmins largest aviation distributors include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Sportsmans Market, TGH Aviation, Sarasota Avionics and Elliott Aviation. Avionics distributors have the training, equipment and certified staff required for at-airport installation of Garmins avionics equipment. 17 In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the consumer market, Garmins products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through tier 2 sourcing. These OEMs include Chrysler, Toyota, Suzuki, Volkswagen, Harley-Davidson, Ford, BMW and BMW Motorrad, Honda, Mercedes Benz, Smart Car, Peugeot, Hyundai, Kia, Mazda, Nissan, Volvo, Bombardier, and Polaris. In 2010, Chrysler introduced Garmin navigation on the 2011 Jeep Grand Cherokee and also announced Garmin navigation on their new uConnect Touch system in partnership with Panasonic, which will launch on select 2011 models. In addition, Garmin continues to sell products and applications to Kenwood for bundling with Kenwoods OEM products. Garmin also has relationships with certain rental car companies including Dollar/Thrifty, Enterprise, Avis, Budget, National, Europcar, Alamo, and Hertz (Europe). Garmin has also developed promotional relationships with certain automotive dealerships in certain countries including BMW, Southeast Toyota, Penske, Mazda, Saab and Ford. Garmins products are also standard equipment on various models of boats manufactured by Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Broom Boats Ltd., Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. and are optional equipment on boats manufactured by Tiara Yachts, Inc., Grand Banks Yachts, Ltd., Luhrs Corp., Maritimo Offshore Pty Ltd., Mastercraft Boat Company, LLC, Yellowfin Yachts, LLC, Sea Ray Corporation, Scout Boats, Inc., The Hinckley Company, Hunt Yachts, Inc. and Zodiac Hurricane Technologies, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmins avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of aircraft built by Bell Helicopter Textron, Inc., Cessna Aircraft Company, Cirrus Aircraft, DAHER-SOCATA, Diamond Aircraft Industries, Inc., Embraer SA, Eurocopter, an EADS Company, Hawker Beechcraft Aircraft Company, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, and Robinson Helicopter Company. Competition The market for navigation, communications and information products is highly competitive. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman) and Navigon AG. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor/fitness product lines are Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, Lowrance Electronics, Inc., a subsidiary of Navico (Lowrance) and Delorme and that its principal competitors for fitness products are Nike, Inc., Polar Electro Oy, Suunto Oy, Timex Corp. and Bryton Corp. For marine chartplotter products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Raymarine Inc. (Raymarine), Furuno Electronic Company (Furuno), and Simrad and Lowrance (subsidiaries of Navico). For Garmins fishfinder/depth sounder product lines, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Lowrance, Raymarine, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., and Furuno. For Garmins general aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Honeywell, Inc., Avidyne Corporation, L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem Avionics, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Chelton Flight Systems, Aspen Avionics, and Free Flight Systems for panel-mount GPS and display units. For Garmins Family Radio Service and General Mobile Radio Service product line, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Motorola, Inc., Cobra Electronics Corporation and Midland Radio Corporation. Research and Development Garmins product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmins engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmins products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered 2,340 people worldwide as of December 25, 2010. Garmins manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmins development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmins success. Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing. 18 Below is a table of Garmins expenditures on research and development over the last three fiscal years. December 25, December 26, December 27, 2010 2009 2008 ($'s in thousands) Research and development $ 277,261 $ 238,378 $ 206,109 Percent of net sales 10.3 % 8.1 % 5.9 % Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes that one of its core competencies and strengths is its manufacturing capability at its Sijhih, Jhongli and LinKou, Taiwan facilities, its Olathe, Kansas facility, and its Salem, Oregon facility. Garmin believes that its vertically integrated approach has provided it the following benefits with respect to all products other than the legacy nvifone products, which are manufactured by one or more third parties as part of the Garmin-Asus strategic alliance, a few select marine products (VHF radios and AIS receivers), and our accessory products, all of which are also manufactured by one or more third parties. Reduced time-to-market. Utilizing concurrent engineering techniques, Garmins products are introduced to production at an early development stage and the feedback provided by manufacturing is incorporated into the design before mass production begins. In this manner, Garmin attempts to reduce the time required to move a product from its design phase to mass production deliveries. Design and process optimization. Garmin uses its manufacturing resources to rapidly prototype design concepts, products and processes in order to achieve higher efficiency, improved quality and yields, lower cost and better value for customers. Garmins ability to fully explore product design and manufacturing process concepts has enabled it to optimize its designs to minimize size and weight in GPS devices that are functional, waterproof, and rugged. Logistical agility. Operating our own manufacturing facilities helps Garmin minimize problems, such as component shortages and long component lead times which are common in the electronics industry. Many products can be re-engineered to bypass component shortages or reduce cost and the new designs can be delivered to market quickly. Garmin reacts rapidly to changes in market demand by striving to maintain a safety stock of long-lead components and by rescheduling components from one product line to another. Operating our own manufacturing facilities also allows Garmin to quickly adjust the mix of product production, helping to foster faster delivery response to the customer. Garmins design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in our US, Taiwan, and UK facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmins Taiwan manufacturing facilities have also achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. In addition, Garmins aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry. Garmin (Europe) Ltd and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO14001 standard. This certification recognizes that Garmins UK and Taiwan subsidiaries have systems and processes in place to minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and to strive continually to improve its environmental performance. Materials Although most components essential to Garmins business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components, including, but not limited to, microprocessors, certain liquid crystal displays (LCDs), and certain application-specific integrated circuits (ASICs) are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations. 19 Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important components. Nevertheless, if Garmins supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, the Garmins financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Garmins business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Garmins requirements Seasonality Our sales are subject to significant seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally significantly higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand for automotive/mobile products during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer marine season and the Fathers Day/graduation buying season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Backlog Our sales are generally of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business. For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various sources. As of January 21, 2010, Garmins worldwide IP portfolio includes over 450 patents and 300 trademark registrations. Garmin was selected as a constituent of the 2010/2011 Ocean Tomo 300 Patent Index which recognizes companies with high intellectual property value. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmins rights in its proprietary technologies. 20 There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Regulations The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver and cellular handset products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft. Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Companys principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmins operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provide that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits apply to remittances involving a conversion between New Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC. Environmental Matters Garmins operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes. Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Currently, we do not anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Environmental regulation of Garmins products is increasing. Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency. Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial. Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management. Garmins EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmins Kansas headquarters facility, Garmins European headquarters facility, and Garmins Taiwan manufacturing facility. 21 Regulatory and Green Procurement demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives. The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs. Employees As of December 25, 2010, Garmin had 8,897 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom 3,470 were in the United States, 72 were in Canada, 4,419 were in Taiwan, 725 were in Europe, and 211 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmins employees in Brazil and Sweden, none of Garmins employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be good. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company The demand for personal navigation devices (PNDs) may be eroded by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile handsets and factory-installed systems in new autos. We have historically experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment which has resulted in GPS/navigation technologies being incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. Mobile handsets are frequently GPS-enabled and many companies are now offering navigation software for mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has halted our growth and could further reduce margins. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on new automobiles could cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and further reduce margins. Our financial results are highly dependent on the automotive/mobile segment, which represents approximately 62% of our revenues and is maturing. We have historically experienced substantial growth in the automotive/mobile segment of our business as the products have become mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America. This market has peaked as penetration rates increase and competing technologies emerge. This has resulted in lower revenues and lower earnings per share. Economic conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and margins. Our revenue and margins depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. The current economic weakness and constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in decreased revenue and in the future, could result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailer and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse affect on our results of operations. 22 Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins on our automotive/mobile products have been declining and are expected to decline in 2011 due to price reductions in the increasingly competitive market for personal navigation devices (PNDs) that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that products life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Changes in our United States federal income tax classification or in applicable tax law could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders. We do not believe that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company. However, because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the companys income or assets meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future. If we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder sells our common shares at a gain. Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned above. We do not believe that we (or any of our non-United States subsidiaries) are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Companys shares qualify as United States shareholders. If the Company were to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty day period in any year, the Companys shareholders that qualify as United States shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain categories of the Companys income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control the ownership of the Companys stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Companys stock buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being treated as a CFC. Legislative proposals have been considered in the United States within the past year that could increase the United States tax burden of corporations with international operations and could broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident in the United States Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in United States or foreign tax laws, tax treaties or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. 23 If we are not successful in the continued development, introduction or timely manufacture of new products, demand for our products could decrease. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. From time to time we have experienced delays in shipping certain of our new products and any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell a majority of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. 24 Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock would likely decline. As we expand our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our advertising and research and development costs, may increase as a percentage of our sales. If revenues decrease and we are unable to reduce those costs rapidly, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year and have recently been lower than the preceding fourth quarter. Our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in these quarters. Sales of certain of our marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products during the recreational marine, fishing, and travel season. Sales of our automotive/mobile products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations. Our quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The operation of Garmins subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations. The currencies that create a majority of the Companys exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. Garmin Corporation, headquartered in Sijhih, Taiwan, uses the local currency as the functional currency. The Company translates all assets and liabilities at year-end exchange rates and income and expense accounts at average rates during the year. In order to minimize the effect of the currency exchange fluctuations on our net assets, we have elected to retain most of our Taiwan subsidiarys cash and investments in marketable securities denominated in U.S. dollars. Nonetheless, U.S. GAAP requires the Company at the end of each accounting period to translate into Taiwan Dollars all such U.S. Dollar denominated assets held by our Taiwan subsidiary. This translation is required because the Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of the subsidiary. This U.S. GAAP-mandated translation will cause us to recognize gain or loss on our financial statements as the Taiwan Dollar/U.S. Dollar exchange rate varies. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. Because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on the Companys operating performance before the impact of the foreign currency translation. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. We have generally been able to increase production to meet this increasing demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and will be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support multiple products, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature to the mass market category. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations: If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. 25 Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess production resulting in higher inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. We have benefited in the past from Taiwan government tax incentives offered on certain high technology capital investments that may not always be available. Our effective tax rate is lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, in part because we have benefited from incentives offered in Taiwan related to our high technology investments in Taiwan. The loss of these tax benefits could have a significant effect on our financial results in the future. We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the Peoples Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. Our principal manufacturing facilities where we manufacture all of our products, except our panel-mounted aviation products, are located in Taiwan. Taiwan has a unique international political status. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the PRC have on occasion adversely affected the market value of Taiwanese companies and could negatively affect our operations in Taiwan in the future. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. We might not have sufficient resources to pay for the licenses. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. 26 We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and under certain circumstances could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage generally will not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components. In the past we have experienced shortages of liquid crystal displays and other components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. We depend on third party licensors for the digital map data contained in our automotive/mobile products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise. We license digital mapping data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical region. The two largest digital map suppliers are NAVTEQ Corporation and Tele Atlas N.V. NAVTEQ Corporation is owned by Nokia Oyj and Tele Atlas N.V. is owned by TomTom N.V. Nokia and TomTom are both competitors of Garmin. Although we do not foresee difficulty in continuing to license data at favorable pricing due to the long term license extension signed between Garmin and NAVTEQ in November 2007 (extending our NAVTEQ license agreement through 2017 with an option to extend through 2021), if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with NAVTEQ changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed. 27 We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, complete and integrate such transactions. We intend to evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Any past or future acquisitions could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees (including cultural differences with foreign acquisitions), operations, and products and diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we have made in previous years or may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis could harm our business. We have certain products, especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers ability to sell airplanes. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot assure you that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. We do not have key man life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide shortage of qualified electrical engineers and software engineers who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. 28 There is uncertainty as to our shareholders ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. A shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the FAA ordered all aircraft operating in the U.S. to be grounded for several days. In addition to this shut down of U.S. airspace, the general aviation industry was further impacted by the additional restrictions implemented by the FAA on those flights that fly utilizing Visual Flight Rules (VFR). The FAA restricted VFR flight inside 30 enhanced Class B (a 20-25 mile radius around the 30 largest metropolitan areas in the USA) airspace areas. The Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA) estimated that these restrictions affected approximately 41,800 general aviation aircraft based at 282 airports inside the 30 enhanced Class B airspace areas. The AOPA estimates that approximately 90% of all general aviation flights are conducted VFR, and that only 15% of general aviation pilots are current to fly utilizing Instrument Flight Rules (IFR). The shutdown of U.S. airspace following September 11, 2001 caused reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facility to our distribution facility in Olathe, Kansas, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Any future shut down of U.S. airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System. The Global Positioning System is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 12 years. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, unavailable or are not replaced, it would impair the current utility of our Global Positioning System products and would have a material negative effect on our business. In addition, there can be no assurance that the U.S. government will remain committed to the operation and maintenance of Global Positioning System satellites over a long period, or that the policies of the U.S. government that provide for the use of the Global Positioning System without charge and without accuracy degradation will remain unchanged. Because of the increasing commercial applications of the Global Positioning System, other U.S. government agencies may become involved in the administration or the regulation of the use of Global Positioning System signals. However, in a presidential policy statement issued in December 2004, the Bush administration indicated that the U.S. is committed to supporting and improving the Global Positioning System and will continue providing it free from direct user fees. Some of our products also use signals from systems that augment GPS, such as the Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS). WAAS is operated by the FAA. Any curtailment of the operating capability of WAAS could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. 29 Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based on competing technologies. Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Governments Global Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. For example, the FCC is currently considering a proposal by a private party, LightSquared, to repurpose spectrum adjacent to the GPS bands for terrestrial broadband wireless operations in metropolitan areas throughout the United States. If the FCC were to permit implementation of LightSquareds proposal as is, terrestrial broadband wireless operations would create harmful interference to GPS receivers within range of such operations. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by war or terrorism. Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving increasing attention worldwide. Some scientists, legislators and others attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. There are a number of pending legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions. For example, in June 2009 the U.S. House of Representatives passed the American Clean Energy and Security Act that would phase-in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions if enacted into law. The U.S. Senate is considering one or more different bills, and it is uncertain whether, when and in what form a federal mandatory carbon dioxide emissions reduction program may be adopted. Similarly, certain countries have adopted the Kyoto Protocol. These actions could increase costs associated with our operations, including costs for components used in the manufacture of our products and freight costs. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 30 Risks Relating to Our Shares The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2010, the price of our common shares ranged from a low of $26.55 to a high of $39.94. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates; announcements of technological innovations; new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; and any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 14, 2011, members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 44.80% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. On June 27, 2010 we completed the redomestication of the place of our incorporation from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the Redomestication). As a result of increased shareholder approval requirements under Swiss law, we have less flexibility than we previously had as a Cayman Islands company with respect to certain aspects of capital management. Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed by a shareholders meeting every two years. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law does not provide as much flexibility as Cayman Islands law in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares either. For example, while the board of directors of a Cayman Islands company can authorize the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval, we will not be able to issue preferred stock without the approval of 66 2/3% of the votes represented and a majority of the par value of the shares represented at a general meeting of our shareholders. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders many corporate actions over which our board of directors previously had authority under Cayman Islands law. For example, dividends must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of our shareholders. 31 The par value of our shares is higher following the Redomestication. As a result, we have less flexibility than we previously had as a Cayman Islands company with respect to certain aspects of capital management. The par value of our shares is 10 Swiss francs per share, compared to a par value of $0.005 per share when we were a Cayman Islands company. Under Swiss law, we may not issue shares below par value. In the event we need to raise equity capital at a time when the trading price of our shares is below the par value of the shares, we will be unable to issue shares. In addition, we will not be able to issue options under our benefits plans with an exercise price below the par value, which would limit the flexibility of our compensation arrangements. We are subject to various Swiss taxes following the Redomestication. Although we do not expect Swiss taxes to materially affect our worldwide effective corporate tax rate, we are subject to additional corporate taxes in Switzerland following the Redomestication. Switzerland imposes a corporate federal income tax for holding companies at an effective tax rate of 7.83%, although we should be entitled to a participation relief that in most cases will effectively eliminate any Swiss taxation on the profits of our subsidiaries paid by them to us as dividends as well as on capital gains related to the sale of participations. We also are subject to a Swiss issuance stamp tax levied on our share issuances, other than in connection with qualifying restructurings, or increases of our equity at a rate of 1% of the fair market value of the issuance or increase. In addition, we are subject to some other Swiss indirect taxes (e.g., VAT, Swiss issuance stamp tax on certain debt instruments and Swiss securities transfer stamp tax). We may not be able to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting you to Swiss withholding tax. If we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). Payment of a capital distribution in the form of a par value reduction is not subject to Swiss withholding tax. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future. In addition, over the long term, the amount of par value available for us to use for par value reductions will be limited. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes. Under Swiss tax law applicable until December 31, 2010, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction have been treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. On January 1, 2011, under Swiss laws the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to the qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the Swiss Stock Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting you to Swiss withholding taxes. 32 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties The following are the principal properties owned or leased by the Company and its subsidiaries: Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. occupy a facility of approximately 1,120,000 square feet on 42 acres in Olathe, Kansas, where the majority of product design and development work is conducted, the majority of aviation panel-mount products are manufactured and products are warehoused, distributed, and supported for North, Central and South America. Garmins subsidiary, Garmin Realty, LLC also owns an additional 46 acres of land on the Olathe site for future expansion. In connection with the bond financings for the facility in Olathe and the previous expansion of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to the Olathe facility which is leased to Garmins subsidiaries by the City. Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe is obligated to transfer title to Garmins subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of $200. Garmin International, Inc. has purchased all the outstanding bonds and continues to hold the bonds until maturity in order to benefit from property tax abatement. Garmin Corporation owns and occupies a 249,326 square foot facility in Sijhih, Taipei County, Taiwan, a 223,469 square foot facility in Jhongli, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan, and an approximately 580,000 square foot facility in LinKou, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan. In these three facilities Garmin Corporation manufactures all of Garmins consumer and portable aviation products and warehouses, markets and supports products for the Pacific Rim countries. Garmin AT, Inc. leases approximately 15 acres of land in Salem, Oregon under a ground lease. This ground lease expires in 2030 but Garmin AT has the option to extend the ground lease until 2050. Garmin AT, Inc. owns and occupies a 115,000 square foot facility for office, development and manufacturing use and a 33,000 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land. Garmin AT, Inc. also leases 43,870 square feet of office space in a separate Salem, OR building for Garmins newly-opened West Coast customer support call center. Garmin International, Inc. leases 148,320 square feet of land at New Century Airport in Gardner, Kansas under a ground lease which expires in 2026. Garmin International, Inc. owns and occupies a 47,254 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land which is used in development and certification of aviation products. Garmin International, Inc. leases approximately 15,000 square feet of space at 669 North Michigan Avenue in Chicago, Illinois which is used as a retail store and showroom for Garmin products. This lease expires in November 2016. Garmin International, Inc. also leases an additional: (i) 18,392 square feet of office space in Kansas City, Missouri for a call center operation; (ii) 48,625 square feet of office space in Olathe, Kansas for a call center operation; (iii) 24,748 square feet of aggregate office space in two buildings in Tempe, Arizona for software development; (iv) 18,500 square feet of office space in Chanhassan, MN for its Digital Cyclone subsidiary; (v) 8,183 square feet of office space in Diamond Bar, California for software development; (vi) 5,952 square feet of office space (and 17,536 square feet of land on which the premises sits) in Wichita, Kansas for aviation development and support; and (vii) 5,700 square feet in Newport, Oregon for the former Nautamatic (now TR-1) marine autopilot operations. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. owns and occupies a 155,000 square foot building located in Totton, Southampton, England, used as offices and a distribution facility. 33 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Ambato Media, LLC v. Clarion Co., Ltd., Clarion Corporation of America, Delphi Corporation, Fujitsu Limited, Fujitsu Ten Corporation of America, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International, Inc., Victor Company of Japan Ltd., JVC Americas Corporation, JVC Kenwood Holdings, Inc., J&K Car Electronics Corporation, LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics USA, Inc., MiTAC International Corporation, MiTAC Digital Corporation, Mio Technology USA Ltd., Navigon, Inc. Nextar Inc., Panasonic Corporation, Panasonic Corporation of North America, Pioneer Corporation, Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc., Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd., Sanyo North America Corporation, Sanyo Electronic Device (U.S.A.) Corporation, TomTom N.V., TomTom International B.V., and TomTom, Inc. On August 14, 2009, Ambato Media, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against Garmin Ltd. and Garmin International, Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,432,542 (the 542 patent). On September 28, 2009, Garmin filed its Answer and Counterclaims asserting the 542 patent is invalid and not infringed. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Pioneer Corporation v. Garmin Deutschland GmbH, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe Ltd. and Garmin Corporation On October 9, 2009, Pioneer Corporation filed suit in the District Court in Dsseldorf, Germany against Garmin Deutschland GmbH, Garmin Ltd., Garmin International, Inc., Garmin Corporation and Garmin (Europe) Ltd. alleging infringement of European Patent No. 775 892 (the 892 Patent) and European Patent No. 508 681 (the681 Patent). Garmin has filed separate lawsuits in the German Federal Patent Court in Munich seeking declaratory judgments of invalidity of the 892 Patent and the 681 Patent. On January 11, 2011, the District Court in Dsseldorf issued decisions finding infringement of the 892 and 681 Patents. Garmin intends to appeal these decisions. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. In the Matter of Certain Multimedia Display and Navigation Devices and Systems, Components Thereof, and Products Containing the Same. On November 13, 2009, Pioneer Corporation and Pioneer Electronics (USA) Inc. (collectively, Pioneer) filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (the Commission) against Garmin International, Inc., Garmin Corporation, and Honeywell International Inc. alleging violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,365,448 (the 448 patent), U.S. Patent No. 6,122,592 (the 592 patent), and U.S. Patent No. 5,424,951 (the 951 patent). On January 12, 2010, Garmin filed its Answer asserting the 448 patent, the 592 patent, and the 951 patent are invalid and not infringed. A hearing was held from September 13-21, 2010. The parties completed their post-hearing briefing on October 14, 2010. On December 16, 2010, the Administrative Law Judge issued an Initial Determination concluding there is no violation of Section 337 and finding that the 448, 592, and 951 patents are not infringed. On January 5, 2011 Pioneer filed a petition for review of the claim construction and non-infringement holdings of the Initial Determination. Garmin awaits final confirmation of the Initial Determination by the Commission. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 34 Vehicle IP, LLC v. AT&T Mobility LLC, Cellco Partnership, Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., Networks in Motion, Inc., Telecommunication Systems, Inc., Telenav Inc., United Parcel Service, Inc., and UPS Logistics Technologies, Inc. On December 31, 2009, Vehicle IP, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,987,377 (the 377 patent). On March 11, 2010, Garmin filed its Answer and Counterclaims asserting the 377 patent is invalid and not infringed. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Nazomi Communications, Inc. v. Nokia Corporation, Nokia Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Amazon.com, Inc., Western Digital Corporation, Western Digital Technologies, Inc., Garmin Ltd., Garmin Corporation, Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., Sling Media, Inc., VIZIO, Inc., and Iomega Corporation. On February 8, 2010, Nazomi Communications, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against Garmin Ltd., Garmin Corporation, Garmin International, Inc., and Garmin USA, Inc. along with several codefendants alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,080,362 (the 362 patent) and U.S. Patent No. 7,225,436 (the 436 patent). Garmin believes the 362 patent and the 436 patent are not infringed. On April 27, 2010, ARM Ltd., the designer of the accused hardware, filed a Motion to Intervene and a Motion to Transfer the case to the Northern District of California. On June 21, 2010, the court granted ARM Ltd.s motion to intervene. On October 14, 2010, the court granted ARM Ltd.s renewed motion to transfer. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Visteon Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon Technologies LLC v. Garmin International, Inc. On February 10, 2010, Visteon Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon Technologies LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, against Garmin International, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,544,060 (the 060 patent), U.S. Patent No. 5,654,892 (the 892 patent), U.S. Patent No. 5,832, 408 (the 408 patent), U.S. Patent No 5,987,375 (the 375 patent) and U.S. Patent No 6,097,316 (the 316 patent). On May 17, 2010, Garmin filed its Answer asserting that each claim of the 060 patent, the 892 patent, the 408 patent and the 375 patent is not infringed and/or invalid. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Bandspeed, Inc. v. Acer, Inc., Acer American Corporation, Belkin International, Inc., Belkin,Inc., Casio Computer Co., Ltd., Xasio Hitachi Mobile CommunicationsCo. Ltd., Xasio America, Inc., Dell Inc., Garmin International, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc., GN Netcom A/S, GN U.S. Inc. a/k/a GN Netcom Inc., Hewlett-Packard Company, Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P., HTC Corporation, HTC America, Inc., Huawei Technologies Co. Ltd., Kyocera Corporation, Kyocera International, Inc., Kyocera Communications, Inc., Kyocera Wireless Corporation, Lenovo (United States), Inc., LG Electronics, Inc., LG Electronics U.S.A. Inc., LG Electronics Mobilecomm U.S.A. Inc., Motorola, Inc., Nokia Corporation, Nokia Inc., Pantech Wireless, Inc. Plantronics, inc., Research in Motion Ltd., Research in Motion Corporation, Samsung Telecommunications America, LLC, TomTom International B.V., TomTom, Inc., Toshiba Corporation, Toshiba America information Systems, Inc., and Toshiba America, Inc. On June 30, 2010, Bandspeed, Inc. filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against 38 companies, including Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No 7,027,418 (the 418 patent) and U.S. Patent No 7,670,614 (the 614 patent). Garmin believes that each claim of the 418 patent and the 614 patent is not infringed and/or invalid. On October 6, 2010, the defendants filed a Motion to Transfer Venue to the Western District of Texas and the parties await the courts ruling on this motion. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 35 Tqranis IP LLC v. Garmin International, Inc., Universal Avionics Systems Corporation, Johnson Outdoors Marine Electronics, Inc., Johnson Outdoors Inc., Raymarine Inc., Raymarine UK Ltd., Navico, Inc., and Navico Holdings A.S. On November 22, 2010, Taranis IP LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois against eight companies, including Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,995,903 (the 903 patent). Garmin believes that each claim of the 903 patent is not infringed and/or invalid. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Triangle Software, LLC v. Garmin International, Inc., TomTom Inc., Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. and Westwood One, Inc. On December 28, 2010, Triangle Software, LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against four companies, including Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 7,557,730 (the 730 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,221,287 (the 287 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,375,649 (the 649 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,508,321 (the 321 patent), and U.S. Patent No. 7,702,452 (the 452 patent). Garmin believes that each claim of the 730, 287, 649, 321, and 452 patents is not infringed and/or invalid. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity, or financial position, Garmin believes the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. In the Matter of Certain Semiconductor Chips and Products Containing Same On December 1, 2010, Rambus Inc. filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission against 33 companies, including Garmin International, Inc., alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 6,470,405 (the 405 patent), U.S. Patent No. 6,591,353 (the 353 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,287,109 (the 109 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,602,857 (the 857 patent), U.S. Patent No. 7,602,858 (the 858 patent), and U.S. Patent No. 7,715,494 (the 494 patent). Garmins semiconductor chip suppliers are also named in the complaint and Garmin believes these suppliers have indemnification obligations to defend Garmin in this matter. Garmin is preparing to file its Answer asserting the 405, 353, 109, 857, 858, and the 494 patents are invalid and/or not infringed. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes these claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. From time to time Garmin is involved in other legal actions arising in the ordinary course of our business. We believe that the ultimate outcome of these actions will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 3, 2011. Dr. Min H. Kao , age 62, has served as Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004 and was previously Co-Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to August 2004. He has served as Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since August 2002 and previously served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 to August 2002. Dr. Kao has served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company since August 1990. Dr. Kao holds Ph.D. and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee and a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University. 36 Clifton A. Pemble , age 45, has served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004, and as President and Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. since October 2007. Mr. Pemble has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since August 2003. Previously, he was Vice President, Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2005 to October 2007, Director of Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2003 to 2005, and Software Engineering Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 2002 and a Software Engineer with Garmin International, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Pemble holds BA degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from MidAmerica Nazarene University. Kevin S. Rauckman , age 48, has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since August 2000. He previously served as Director of Finance and Treasurer of Garmin International, Inc. since January 1999 and has served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company since April 2001. Mr. Rauckman holds BS and MBA degrees in Business from the University of Kansas. Andrew R. Etkind , age 55, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since June 2008. He was previously General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to June 2008. He has been Vice President and General Counsel of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2007, General Counsel since February 1998, and Secretary since October 1998. Mr. Etkind has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since December 2001. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and LLM degrees from Cambridge University, England and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. Brian J. Pokorny, age 47, has been Vice President, Operations of Garmin International, Inc. since 2005. Previously, he was Director of Operations of Garmin International, Inc. from 1997 to 2005 and Production Planning Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 1997. Mr. Pokorny holds a BS degree in Business Management and a MBA from the University of Nebraska - Lincoln and holds the professional certification of CPIM (Certified in Production and Inventory Management). Danny J. Bartel , age 61, has been Vice President, Worldwide Sales of Garmin International, Inc. since 2006. Previously, he was Technical/Survey Sales Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1992 to 1993, Director, Europe, Middle East and Africa of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. from 1994 to 1999, and Director of Consumer Electronic Sales of Garmin International, Inc. from 1999 to 2006. He has been a director of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. since July 2004. Mr. Bartel holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from South Dakota State University and a BA in Management from Central Michigan University. Gary V. Kelley , age 64, has been Vice President, Marketing of Garmin International, Inc. since 2005. Previously, he was Director of Marketing of Garmin International, Inc. from 1992 to 2005. He has also been Director of Marketing of Garmin USA, Inc. since January 2002. Mr. Kelley was a director of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. from 1993 to 2004. Mr. Kelley holds a BBA degree from Baker University. He also holds a commercial pilot license with instrument and flight instructor ratings. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. None of the executive officers has an employment agreement with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers. Dr. Min H. Kao is the brother of Ruey-Jeng Kao, who is a supervisor of Garmin Corporation, Garmins Taiwan subsidiary, who serves as an ex-officio member of Garmin Corporations Board of Directors. 37 PART II Item 5. Market for the Companys Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Garmins common shares have traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol GRMN since its initial public offering on December 8, 2000 (the IPO). As of February 17, 2011, there were 284 shareholders of record. The range of high and low closing sales prices of Garmins common shares as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market for each fiscal quarter of fiscal years 2010 and 2009 was as follows: Year Ended December 25, 2010 December 26, 2009 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 39.94 $ 30.70 $ 23.48 $ 15.17 Second Quarter $ 39.14 $ 31.22 $ 25.99 $ 19.74 Third Quarter $ 31.60 $ 26.55 $ 37.23 $ 22.67 Fourth Quarter $ 34.00 $ 28.52 $ 39.58 $ 26.84 The Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $1.50 per common share to shareholders of record on April 15, 2010 which was paid on April 30, 2010. The Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.75 per common share to shareholders of record on December 1, 2009 which was paid on December 15, 2009. Garmin currently expects to pay a cash dividend in 2011. The decision whether to pay a dividend and the amount of the dividend will be voted on by the Companys shareholders as required by Swiss law. The Board of Directors will make a recommendation closer to the payment date based on the Companys cash balance, cash requirements and cash flow generation. The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 12, 2010, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $300 million of the Companys shares as market and business conditions warrant. This share repurchase authorization expires on December 31, 2011. No shares were repurchased under the plan during the fourth quarter of 2010. We refer you to Item 12 of this report under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information for certain equity plan information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The following graph illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of Garmin common shares during the period from December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2010, and compares it to the cumulative total return on the NASDAQ Composite Index and the NASDAQ 100 Index. Garmin is one of the constituent companies of the NASDAQ 100 Index. The comparison assumes a $100 investment on December 31, 2005, in Garmin common shares and in each of the foregoing indexes and assumes reinvestment of dividends. 38 12/05 12/06 12/07 12/08 12/09 12/10 Garmin Ltd. 100.00 169.45 297.51 61.39 100.69 105.83 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 111.74 124.67 73.77 107.12 125.93 NASDAQ 100 100.00 110.76 133.59 80.41 122.45 140.69 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December 25, 2010, December 26, 2009, and December 27, 2008 were derived from the Companys audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 27, 2008, December 29, 2007, and December 30, 2006 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006 were derived from the Companys audited consolidated financial statements, not included herein. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations and should be read together with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Items 7 and 8 in Part II of this Form 10-K. 39 Years ended (1) Dec. 25, 2010 Dec. 26, 2009 Dec. 27, 2008 Dec. 29, 2007 Dec. 30, 2006 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 2,689,911 $ 2,946,440 $ 3,494,077 $ 3,180,319 $ 1,774,000 Cost of goods sold 1,343,537 1,502,329 1,940,562 1,717,064 891,614 Gross profit 1,346,374 1,444,111 1,553,515 1,463,255 882,386 Operating expenses: Advertising expense 144,613 155,521 208,177 206,948 114,749 Selling, general and administrative 287,824 264,202 277,212 189,550 99,764 Research and development 277,261 238,378 206,109 159,406 113,314 Total operating expenses 709,698 658,101 691,498 555,904 327,827 Operating income 636,676 786,010 862,017 907,351 554,559 Other income/(expense), net (2), (3), (4) (59,404 ) 22,641 52,349 70,922 39,995 Income before income taxes 577,272 808,651 914,366 978,273 594,554 Income tax provision/(benefit) (5) (7,331 ) 104,701 181,518 123,262 80,431 Net income $ 584,603 $ 703,950 $ 732,848 $ 855,011 $ 514,123 Net income per share: (6) Basic $ 2.97 $ 3.51 $ 3.51 $ 3.95 $ 2.38 Diluted $ 2.95 $ 3.50 $ 3.48 $ 3.89 $ 2.35 Weighted average common shares outstanding: (6) Basic 196,979 200,395 208,993 216,524 216,340 Diluted 198,009 201,161 210,680 219,875 218,845 Cash dividends per share (6) $ 1.50 $ 0.75 $ 0.75 $ 0.75 $ 0.50 Balance Sheet Data (at end of Period): Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,260,936 $ 1,091,581 $ 696,335 $ 707,689 $ 337,321 Marketable securities 801,819 766,047 274,895 424,505 480,876 Total assets 3,988,688 3,828,082 2,934,421 3,291,460 1,897,020 Total debt - - - - 248 Total stockholders' equity 3,049,562 2,836,447 2,225,854 2,350,614 1,557,899 (1) Our fiscal year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not always fall on December 31. All years presented contain 52 weeks. (2) Other income/(expense), net mainly consists of gain and/or loss on sale of equity securities, interest income, interest expense, and foreign currency gain (loss) (3) Includes $23.0 million and $0.6 million for foreign currency gains in 2007 and 2006 respectively, and $88.4 million, $6.0 million and $35.3 million for foreign currency losses in 2010, 2009 and 2008 respectively. (4) Includes a $72.4 million gain on sale of equity securities primarily related to the sale of our equity interest in Tele Atlas N.V. and related foreign currency exchange effects in 2008. (5) Includes a $98.7 million one-time income tax reserve release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2008 related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for the 2007 tax year in the US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves. (6) All prior period common stock and applicable share and per share amounts have been retroactively adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1 split of the Company's common stock effective August 15, 2006. 40 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmins fiscal year is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008 contained 52 weeks. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Companys fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we," "us," "our" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview We are a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in four business segments, which serve the marine, outdoor/fitness, automotive/mobile, and aviation markets. Our segments offer products through our network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the four segments can vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. Our portable GPS receivers and accessories for marine, recreation/fitness and automotive/mobile segments are sold primarily to retail outlets. Our aviation products are portable and panel-mount avionics for Visual Flight Rules and Instrument Flight Rules navigation and are sold primarily to retail outlets and certain aircraft manufacturers. Since our first products were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive income from operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits. Our sales have increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 11% since 2006 and our net income has increased at a compounded annual growth rate of 3% since 2006. The vast majority of this growth has been organic; only a very small amount of new revenue occurred as a result of the acquisition of Dynastream Innovations Inc. in 2006, Digital Cyclone, Inc. and the assets of Nautamatic Marine Systems, Inc. in 2007, eleven European distributors between 2007 and 2010, and MetriGear, Inc. in 2010. These acquisitions had no significant impact on net income for those years. Since our principal locations are in the United States, Taiwan and the U.K., we experience some foreign currency fluctuations in our operating results. The table below provides a listing of our functional currency by subsidiary excluding the European subsidiaries that utilize the Euro. 41 Garmin (Europe) Ltd US Dollar Garmin Corporation Taiwan Dollar Garmin International US Dollar Garmin Norge Norwegian Kroner Dynastream Innovations Canadian Dollar Garmin Danmark Danish Krone Garmin Sweden Swedish Brona Garmin Australasia Australian Dollar Garmin Polska Polish Zloty Garmin Japan Japanese Yen Garmin China Chinese Renminbi Approximately 77% of sales by our European subsidiaries are now denominated in British Pounds Sterling or the Euro. We experienced ($88.4) million, ($6.0) million, and ($35.3) million in foreign currency losses during fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. The 2008 foreign currency loss includes a realized gain of $21.5 million due to the strengthening of the Euro between the date we purchased shares in Tele Atlas N.V. in October 2007 and the tender of shares in February, March, and June 2008. To date, we have not entered into hedging transactions related to any currency, and we do not currently plan to utilize hedging transactions in the future. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Garmins discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmins consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition Garmin recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. For the large majority of Garmins sales, these criteria are met once product has shipped and title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. The Company recognizes revenue from the sale of hardware products and software bundled with hardware that is essential to the functionality of the hardware in accordance with general revenue recognition accounting guidance. The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with industry specific software accounting guidance for standalone sales of software products and sales of software bundled with hardware not essential to the functionality of the hardware. The Company generally does not offer specified or unspecified upgrade rights to its customers in connection with software sales. Garmin introduced nMaps Lifetime in January 2009, which is a single fee program that, subject to the programs terms and conditions, enables customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND. The revenue and associated cost of royalties for sales of nMaps Lifetime products are deferred at the time of sale and recognized ratably on a straight-line basis over the currently estimated 36-month life of the products. 42 For multiple-element arrangements that include tangible products that contain software essential to the tangible products functionality and undelivered software elements that relate to the tangible products essential software, the Company allocates revenue to all deliverables based on their relative selling prices. In such circumstances, the accounting principles establish a hierarchy to determine the selling price to be used for allocating revenue to deliverables as follows: (i) vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE), (ii) third-party evidence of selling price (TPE), and (iii) best estimate of the selling price (ESP). VSOE generally exists only when the Company sells the deliverable separately and is the price actually charged by the Company for that deliverable. In addition to the products listed below, the Company has offered certain other products that involve multiple-element arrangements that are immaterial. In 2010, Garmin began offering PNDs with lifetime map updates (LMU) bundled in the original purchase price. Similar to nMaps Lifetime which was introduced in January 2009, this enables customers to download the latest map and point of interest information every quarter for the useful life of their PND. The Company has identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of PNDs including LMU. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the LMU. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method determined primarily using VSOE. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the LMU are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products. In addition, Garmin offers PNDs with premium traffic bundled in the original purchase price in the European market. The Company has identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of PNDs including premium traffic. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the premium traffic service. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method determined using VSOE. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the premium traffic service are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated 36-month life of the products. In 2009, Garmin introduced the nvi 1690, a premium PND with a built-in wireless module that lets customers access Garmins nLink! service, which provides direct links to certain online information. The Company has identified two deliverables contained in arrangements involving the sale of the nvi 1690. The first deliverable is the hardware and software essential to the functionality of the hardware device delivered at the time of sale, and the second deliverable is the nLink service. The Company has allocated revenue between these two deliverables using the relative selling price method determined using VSOE. Amounts allocated to the delivered hardware and the related essential software are recognized at the time of sale provided the other conditions for revenue recognition have been met. Amounts allocated to the nLink services are deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the 24-month life of the service. Garmin records estimated reductions to revenue for customer sales programs returns and incentive offerings including rebates, price protection (product discounts offered to retailers to assist in clearing older products from their inventories in advance of new product releases), promotions and other volume-based incentives. The reductions to revenue are based on estimates and judgments using historical experience and expectation of future conditions. Changes in these estimates could negatively affect Garmins operating results. These incentives are reviewed periodically and, with the exceptions of price protection and certain other promotions, are accrued for on a percentage of sales basis. If market conditions were to decline, Garmin may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings possibly resulting in an incremental reduction of revenue at the time the incentive is offered. 43 Garmin records reductions to revenue for expected future product returns based on Garmins historical experience. Trade Accounts Receivable We sell our products to retailers, wholesalers, and other customers and extend credit based on our evaluation of the customers financial condition. Potential losses on receivables are dependent on each individual customers financial condition. We carry our trade accounts receivable at net realizable value. Typically, our accounts receivable are collected within 80 days and do not bear interest. We monitor our exposure to losses on receivables and maintain allowances for potential losses or adjustments. We determine these allowances by (1) evaluating the aging of our receivables; and (2) reviewing our high-risk customers. Past due receivable balances are written off when our internal collection efforts have been unsuccessful in collecting the amount due. Warranties Garmins products are generally covered by a warranty for periods ranging from one to three years. Garmin accrues a warranty reserve for estimated costs to provide warranty services. Garmins estimate of costs to service its warranty obligations is based on historical experience and expectation of future conditions. To the extent Garmin experiences increased warranty claim activity or increased costs associated with servicing those claims, its warranty accrual will increase, resulting in decreased gross profit. Inventory Garmin writes down its inventory for estimated obsolescence or unmarketable inventory equal to the difference between the cost of inventory and the estimated market value based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required. Investments Investments are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value, and unrealized investment gains and losses are reflected in stockholders equity. Investment income is recorded when earned, and capital gains and losses are recognized when investments are sold. Fair value of investments in auction rate securities are determined using third party estimates which followed an income approach valuation methodology. Investments are reviewed periodically to determine if they have suffered an impairment of value that is considered other than temporary. If investments are determined to be impaired, a capital loss is recognized at the date of determination. Testing for impairment of investments requires significant management judgment. The identification of potentially impaired investments, the determination of their fair value and the assessment of whether any decline in value is other than temporary are the key judgment elements. The discovery of new information and the passage of time can significantly change these judgments. Revisions of impairment judgments are made when new information becomes known, and any resulting impairment adjustments are made at that time. The economic environment and volatility of securities markets increase the difficulty of determining fair value and assessing investment impairment. Income Taxes Garmin provides deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amount for financial reporting purposes as measured by the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. It is Garmins policy to record a valuation allowance to reduce its deferred tax assets to an amount that it believes is more likely than not to be realized. While Garmin has considered future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the need for the valuation allowance, in the event Garmin were to determine that it would not be able to realize all or part of its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would be charged to income in the period such determination is made. Likewise, should Garmin determine that it would be able to realize its deferred tax assets in the future in excess of its net recorded amount, an adjustment to the deferred tax assets would increase income in the period such determination is made. 44 In addition, the calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax regulations. We recognize liabilities for tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. If payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. If our estimate of tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would result. Stock Based Compensation Garmin awards stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock units (RSUs) and/or performance shares each year as part of Garmins compensation package for employees. Employees with certain levels of responsibility within Garmin are eligible for stock options, SAR grants, RSU grants and/or performance shares but the granting of options, SARs, RSUs and/or performance shares is at the discretion of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors and is not a contractual obligation. Stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service period. Determining the fair value of stock-based awards at the grant date requires judgment, including estimating expected dividends. In addition, judgment is also required in estimating the amount of stock-based awards that are expected to be forfeited. If actual results differ significantly from these estimates, stock-based compensation expense could be impacted. Stock compensation plans are discussed in detail in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our global dealer and distributor network and to original equipment manufacturers. Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion above. Our sales are largely of a consumer nature; therefore backlog levels are not necessarily indicative of our future sales results. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive, and we typically ship most orders within 72 hours. Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season, and in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during the holiday buying season. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Sales/Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. In 2010, gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment declined 160 basis points as the average selling price declines outpaced raw material price declines. In addition, the deferral of high margin revenue and the related costs increased significantly as the product mix shifted toward products bundled with lifetime maps. See Note 2 for further information. This was partially offset by a positive refinement in the warranty reserve. In 2009, gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment increased 350 basis points as benefits from raw material price declines and operating efficiencies exceeded the average selling price decline. In 2008, gross margin for our automotive/mobile segment declined 310 basis points as the average selling price continued to decline and we experienced further shift in product mix to lower-margin product groups. These impacts were somewhat offset by raw material price declines, most significantly flash memory. Gross margins for the aviation, marine, and outdoor/fitness segments are more stable. Our long-term gross margin targets are 65%, 55% and 55%, respectively, for these segments. 45 Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to utilize alternative lower cost components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to permit us to use these lower cost components. We believe that because of our practice of performing the design, manufacture and marketing of our products in-house, our Sijhih, Jhongli, and Lin-Kou manufacturing plants in Taiwan, our Olathe, Kansas, and Salem, Oregon manufacturing plants have experienced relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan than in Olathe and Salem. Sales price variability has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. In the past, prices of our devices sold into the automotive/mobile market have declined due to market pressures and introduction of new products sold at lower price points. The average selling prices of our aviation, outdoor/fitness, and marine products have been stable due to product mix and the introduction of more advanced products sold at higher prices. The effect of the sales price differences inherent within the mix of GPS-enabled products sold could have a significant impact on our gross profit. Advertising Expense Our advertising expenses consist of costs for both media advertising and cooperative advertising with our retail partners. As revenues grew in 2008, advertising expense also increased. In 2009-2010, we reduced our advertising expense as revenues declined and the public became more aware of GPS technology. The reduction did not have a negative impact on our market share. We expect advertising costs to decrease in 2011 as revenues decline. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: salaries for sales and marketing personnel; salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; marketing, and other brand building costs; accounting and legal costs; information systems and infrastructure costs; travel and related costs; and occupancy and other overhead costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2010 due to legal costs, fees associated with the Swiss redomestication, and growth in product support and information technology to support our growing installed base of users. Due to the economic pressure on our consumer-oriented business, we decreased selling, general and administrative expenses in 2009. As revenues grew in 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses increased. We expect selling, general and administrative costs, excluding advertising, to be stable or decline slightly in 2011 as revenues decline. 46 Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent salaries for our engineers, costs for high technology components and costs of test equipment used in product and prototype development. Approximately 87% of the research and development of our products is performed in North America. The remainder of our research and development activities is performed primarily by our Taiwan engineering group. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new markets for GPS-enabled devices. We expect our research and development budget in absolute terms to be stable in 2011. Customers Our top ten customers have contributed between 34% and 36% of net sales since 2008. We have experienced average sales days in our customer accounts receivable of between 70 and 78 days since 2008. We have experienced an increase in the level of customer accounts receivable days due to changes in product mix, longer payment terms, and macroeconomic conditions. We expect to reduce the level of customer accounts receivable days as we negotiate shorter payment terms with our customers. Income Taxes We have experienced a relatively low effective corporate tax rate due to the proportion of our revenue generated by entities in tax jurisdictions with low statutory rates. In particular, the profit entitlement afforded our Swiss-based companies based on their intellectual property rights ownership of our consumer products along with substantial tax incentives offered by the Taiwanese government on certain high-technology capital investments have continued to reduce our tax rate. As a result, our consolidated effective tax rate was approximately (1.3%) during 2010. The negative rate was due to the impact of one-time items booked in 2010. The one-time items of ($98.7) million include the release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2008 related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for the 2007 tax year in the US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves. Without one-time items, we would have reported an effective tax rate of 15.8% for 2010 compared to 12.9% for 2009. This increase resulted from an unfavorable mix of taxable income among the tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates. We have taken advantage of the tax benefit in Taiwan since our inception and we expect to continue to benefit from lower effective tax rates at least through 2015. Management believes that due to lower operating margins predicted for fiscal 2011, there may be slightly less revenue recognized by entities in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Therefore, the effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 is expected to be higher than fiscal 2010. The actual effective tax rate will be dependent upon the operating margins, production volume, additional capital investments made during fiscal 2011, and the composition of our earnings. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown: 47 Fiscal Years Ended Dec. 25, Dec. 26, Dec. 27, 2010 2009 2008 Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of goods sold 50 % 51 % 55 % Gross profit 50 % 49 % 45 % Operating expenses: Advertising 5 % 5 % 6 % Selling, general and administrative 11 % 9 % 8 % Research and development 10 % 8 % 6 % Total operating expenses 26 % 22 % 20 % Operating income 24 % 27 % 25 % Other income / (expense) , net -2 % 0 % 1 % Income before income taxes 22 % 27 % 26 % Provision for income taxes 0 % 3 % 5 % Net income 22 % 24 % 21 % The following table sets forth our results of operations through income before income taxes for each of our four segments during the period shown. For each line item in the table the total of the segments amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income data included in Item 6. 48 Outdoor/ Automotive/ Fitness Marine Mobile Aviation Fiscal year ended December 25, 2010 Net sales $ 559,592 $ 198,860 $ 1,668,939 $ 262,520 Cost of goods sold 195,136 74,212 995,986 78,203 Gross profit 364,456 124,648 672,953 184,317 Advertising 24,485 9,834 106,950 3,344 Selling, general and administrative expenses 58,313 23,497 188,799 17,215 Research and development 30,633 23,854 131,290 91,484 Total expenses 113,431 57,185 427,039 112,043 Operating income 251,025 67,463 245,914 72,274 Other income / (expense), net (13,553 ) (5,032 ) (40,027 ) (792 ) Income before income taxes $ 237,472 $ 62,431 $ 205,887 $ 71,482 Outdoor/ Automotive/ Fitness Marine Mobile Aviation Fiscal year ended December 26, 2009 Net sales $ 468,924 $ 177,644 $ 2,054,127 $ 245,745 Cost of goods sold 162,082 72,429 1,192,227 75,591 Gross profit 306,842 105,215 861,900 170,154 Advertising 23,262 9,682 118,713 3,864 Selling, general and administrative expenses 47,799 18,177 172,473 25,753 Research and development 23,776 21,448 110,907 82,247 Total expenses 94,837 49,307 402,093 111,864 Operating income 212,005 55,908 459,807 58,290 Other income / (expense), net (5,963 ) 1,522 28,777 (1,695 ) Income before income taxes $ 206,042 $ 57,430 $ 488,584 $ 56,595 Outdoor/ Automotive/ Fitness Marine Mobile Aviation Fiscal year ended December 27, 2008 Net sales $ 427,783 $ 204,477 $ 2,538,411 $ 323,406 Cost of goods sold 181,037 93,052 1,560,816 105,657 Gross profit 246,746 111,425 977,595 217,749 Advertising 27,932 14,532 160,926 4,787 Selling, general and administrative expenses 32,800 17,536 206,954 19,922 Research and development 25,419 19,374 85,610 75,706 Total expenses 86,151 51,442 453,490 100,415 Operating income 160,595 59,983 524,105 117,334 Other income / (expense), net 5,391 3,921 41,634 1,403 Income before income taxes $ 165,986 $ 63,904 $ 565,739 $ 118,737 49 Comparison of 52-Weeks Ended December 25, 2010 and December 26, 2009 Net Sales 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Year over Year Net Sales % of Revenues Net Sales % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 559,592 21 % $ 468,924 16 % $ 90,668 19 % Marine 198,860 7 % 177,644 6 % 21,216 12 % Automotive/Mobile 1,668,939 62 % 2,054,127 70 % (385,188 ) -19 % Aviation 262,520 10 % 245,745 8 % 16,775 7 % Total $ 2,689,911 100 % $ 2,946,440 100 % $ (256,529 ) -9 % Net sales decreased 9% in 2010 when compared to the year-ago period. The decrease occurred in automotive/mobile and was partially offset by revenue growth in outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation. The outdoor/fitness segment experienced the greatest increase at 19%. Automotive/mobile revenue remains the largest portion of our revenue mix, but declined from 70% in 2009 to 62% in 2010. Total unit sales decreased 4% to 16.0 million units in 2010 from 16.6 million units in 2009. The declining unit sales volume in 2010 was attributable to a decline in automotive/mobile units due to increased saturation in the segment and competing technologies partially offset by increasing volumes in the outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation segments. Automotive/mobile segment revenue declined 19% in 2010, as the average selling price and volumes declined 11% and 9%, respectively. Outdoor/fitness segment revenue increased 19% on the strength of recent product introductions that expand the addressable market and ongoing global penetration. Marine revenues increased 12% due to product introductions, slight industry recovery and market share gains. Aviation revenues increased 7% as the Company delivered into additional cockpits and the retrofit business began to recover. The Company anticipates ongoing revenue declines in 2011 driven by the automotive/mobile segment with partially offsetting growth in the outdoor/fitness, aviation and marine segments. In general, management believes that continuous innovation and the introduction of new products are essential for future revenue growth. Cost of Goods Sold 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Year over Year Cost of Goods % of Revenues Cost of Goods % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 195,136 35 % $ 162,082 35 % $ 33,054 20 % Marine $ 74,212 37 % $ 72,429 41 % 1,783 2 % Automotive/Mobile $ 995,986 60 % $ 1,192,227 58 % (196,241 ) -16 % Aviation $ 78,203 30 % $ 75,591 31 % 2,612 3 % Total $ 1,343,537 50 % $ 1,502,329 51 % $ (158,792 ) -11 % Cost of goods sold decreased 11% in 2010 when compared to the year-ago period which was generally consistent with the change in revenue. The absolute dollar decrease occurred in automotive/mobile and was partially offset by cost of goods increases in outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation. Cost of goods sold in 2010 was positively impacted by 160 basis points due to a $42.8 million warranty adjustment related to refinement in the estimated warranty reserve. This adjustment impacted all segments with automotive/mobile, outdoor/fitness and marine having the largest benefits. Cost per unit declined in all segments driving stable to improving margins in outdoor/fitness, marine and aviation. Management believes that cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales will be stable in 2011 given current component pricing. 50 Gross Profit 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Year over Year Gross Profit % of Revenues Gross Profit % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 364,456 65 % $ 306,842 65 % $ 57,614 19 % Marine 124,648 63 % 105,215 59 % 19,433 18 % Automotive/Mobile 672,953 40 % 861,900 42 % (188,947 ) -22 % Aviation 184,317 70 % 170,154 69 % 14,163 8 % Total $ 1,346,374 50 % $ 1,444,111 49 % $ (97,737 ) -7 % Gross profit dollars in 2010 decreased 7% while gross profit margin percentage increased 110 basis points compared to 2009. Gross profit margins were stable to increasing in all segments excluding the automotive/mobile segment when compared to 2009. The automotive/mobile segment gross profit margin percentage decrease of 160 basis points was driven by an 11% decrease in average selling price which was only partially offset by a decline in per unit costs including the warranty benefit. Gross profit dollars of the automotive/mobile segment declined to 50% of total gross profit dollars from 60% in 2009. Gross profit dollars for marine increased 18% compared to 2009 due to product mix shifting toward higher margin units. Gross profit dollars for outdoor/fitness increased by 19% to $364.5 million due to strong revenue growth in the segment. Management believes that total company gross margins will be stable in 2011 as growth occurs in segments with higher margin profiles offsetting continued margin pressure in the automotive/mobile segment due to price declines. Advertising Expenses 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Advertising Advertising Year over Year Expense % of Revenues Expense % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 24,485 4 % $ 23,262 5 % $ 1,223 5 % Marine 9,834 5 % 9,682 5 % 152 2 % Automotive/Mobile 106,950 6 % 118,713 6 % (11,763 ) -10 % Aviation 3,344 1 % 3,864 2 % (520 ) -13 % Total $ 144,613 5 % $ 155,521 5 % $ (10,908 ) -7 % Advertising expense decreased 7% in absolute dollars and was flat as a percentage of revenues when compared to 2009. As a percent of revenues, advertising expenses were 5% in both 2010 and 2009. The absolute dollar decrease occurred primarily in the automotive/mobile segment due to reduced cooperative advertising paid to our retail partners partially offset by mobile handset specific advertising. Further offsetting the decline was increased advertising for outdoor/fitness where we continue to invest for growth. Management expects to maintain advertising as a percentage of sales constant in 2011. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Selling, General & Selling, General & Year over Year Admin. Expenses % of Revenues Admin. Expenses % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 58,313 10 % $ 47,799 10 % $ 10,514 22 % Marine 23,497 12 % 18,177 10 % 5,320 29 % Automotive/Mobile 188,799 11 % 172,473 8 % 16,326 9 % Aviation 17,215 7 % 25,753 10 % (8,538 ) -33 % Total $ 287,824 11 % $ 264,202 9 % $ 23,622 9 % 51 Selling, general and administrative expense increased in both absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenues compared to 2009. As a percent of revenues, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 9% of revenues in 2009 to 11% of revenues in 2010. The expense increase was primarily driven by legal costs, fees associated with the Swiss redomestication, and growth in product support and information technology to support our growing installed base of users. Aviation costs declined year-over-year due to a 2009 bad debt accrual driven by cash collection risks associated with several of our customers that did not reoccur in 2010. Management expects selling, general and administrative expenses to decline in absolute dollars but to increase as a percentage of sales in 2011 as revenue declines outpace cost reductions. Research and Development Expense 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Research & Research & Year over Year Development % of Revenues Development % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 30,633 5 % $ 23,776 5 % $ 6,857 29 % Marine 23,854 12 % 21,448 12 % 2,406 11 % Automotive/Mobile 131,290 8 % 110,907 5 % 20,383 18 % Aviation 91,484 35 % 82,247 33 % 9,237 11 % Total $ 277,261 10 % $ 238,378 8 % $ 38,883 16 % Research and development expense increased 16% due to ongoing development activities for new products including the mobile handset initiative which has now been cancelled, and the addition of over 350 new engineering personnel to our staff during the period. In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $38.9 million primarily in the auto/mobile segment, when compared with the year-ago period and increased 220 basis points as a percent of revenue. Management believes that one of the key strategic initiatives for future growth and success of Garmin is continuous innovation, development, and introduction of new products. Management expects that its research and development expenses will be stable during fiscal 2011 on an absolute dollar basis in order to deliver innovative new products and technologies. Operating Income 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 Year over Year Operating Income % of Revenues Operating Income % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 251,025 45 % $ 212,005 45 % $ 39,020 18 % Marine 67,463 34 % 55,908 31 % 11,555 21 % Automotive/Mobile 245,914 15 % 459,807 22 % (213,893 ) -47 % Aviation 72,274 28 % 58,290 24 % 13,984 24 % Total $ 636,676 24 % $ 786,010 27 % $ (149,334 ) -19 % Operating income decreased 300 basis points as a percent of revenue and 19% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period as gross margin percentage improvements and reduced advertising expense were more than offset by declining revenues and increased selling, general and administrative and research and development expenses. The automotive/mobile operating margin declined from 22% in 2009 to 15% in 2010 due to a 160 basis point decline in gross margins and selling, general and administrative and research and development expense increases during a period of declining revenues. The aviation operating margin increased from 24% in 2009 to 28% in 2010 as gross margins improved 100 basis points 52 Other Income (Expense) 52-weeks ended 52-weeks ended December 25, 2010 December 26, 2009 Interest Income $ 24,979 $ 23,519 Interest Expense (1,246 ) - Foreign Currency Exchange (88,377 ) (6,040 ) Gain/(Loss) on sale of marketable securities (2,382 ) 2,741 Other 7,622 2,421 Total $ (59,404 ) $ 22,641 Other income (expense) principally consists of interest income and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense) was lower in fiscal 2010 relative to fiscal 2009, with the majority of this difference caused by a large foreign currency loss in 2010. Interest income for fiscal 2010 increased due to increasing cash and marketable securities balances during the year partially offset by decreasing interest rates. Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are primarily tied to movements by the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro, and the British Pound Sterling. Due to the relative size of entities using other currencies, movements are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. The Euro is the functional currency of all subsidiaries excluding those shown below. As subsidiaries have grown, currency moves generated material gains and losses. Additionally, Euro-based inter-company transactions in Garmin Ltd. can also generate currency gains and losses. The $88.4 million currency loss in 2010 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, as well as the weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Taiwan Dollar. During 2010, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 8.8% and 3.3% compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting in a loss of $51.0 million. A loss of $38.7 million resulted due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 5.9% against the Taiwan Dollar. The movements of the Taiwan Dollar and Euro/British Pound Sterling have offsetting impacts due to the use of the Taiwan Dollar for manufacturing costs and cash held in non-functional currency while the Euro and British Pound Sterling transactions relate to revenue. The remaining net currency gain of $1.3 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions. The $6.0 million currency loss in 2009 was due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and the Taiwan Dollar. During 2009, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.4% and 8.3% compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting in a gain of $5.8 million. A loss of $16.1 million resulted due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 2.3% against the Taiwan Dollar. The remaining net currency gain of $4.3 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions. Income Tax Provision Our earnings before taxes fell 29% when compared to 2009 and our income tax expense decreased by $112.0 million, to ($7.3) million, for fiscal year 2010 from $104.7 million for fiscal year 2009. The significant decline in income tax expense was due to the impact of one-time items booked in 2010. The one-time items of ($98.7) million include release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2008 related to our settlement with the IRS in the US, partially offset by the amount of the settlement for the 2007 tax year in the US and Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves. Without one-time items, we would have reported an effective tax rate of 15.8% for 2010 compared to 12.9% for 2009. The increase in the adjusted effective tax rate as compared to 2009 is largely due to an unfavorable mix of income among taxing jurisdictions. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above, net income decreased 17% to $584.6 million for fiscal year 2010 compared to $704.0 million for fiscal year 2009. 53 Comparison of 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 Net Sales 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Year over Year Net Sales % of Revenues Net Sales % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 468,924 16 % $ 427,783 12 % $ 41,141 10 % Marine 177,644 6 % 204,477 6 % (26,833 ) -13 % Automotive/Mobile 2,054,127 70 % 2,538,411 73 % (484,284 ) -19 % Aviation 245,745 8 % 323,406 9 % (77,661 ) -24 % Total $ 2,946,440 100 % $ 3,494,077 100 % $ (547,637 ) -16 % Net sales decreased 16% in 2009 when compared to the year-ago period. The decrease occurred across all segments, except outdoor/fitness, with the greatest decreases in the automotive/mobile and aviation segments. Automotive/mobile revenue was the largest portion of our revenue mix, but declined from 73% in 2008 to 70% in 2009. Total unit sales decreased 2% to 16.6 million in 2009 from 16.9 million in 2008. The lower unit sales volume was attributable to declining volumes across all segments, excluding outdoor/fitness, with the greatest percentage declines occurring in aviation and marine. The lower volumes were driven primarily by the macroeconomic conditions and reduced inventory levels with many of our retail partners. Automotive/mobile segment revenue declined 19% in 2009 as the average selling price declined 18% and volumes declined 2%. Average selling price declines continue to be attributable to the competitive environment in which our automotive/mobile products compete. The aviation and marine segments declined 24% and 13%, respectively in 2009, as both industries experienced significant slowdowns associated with the macroeconomic conditions. Outdoor/fitness segment revenue increased 10% due to new product introductions, including the Dakota series, the Forerunner 405CX, the Forerunner 310XT and Edge 500, and increasing global penetration of the fitness category. All segments showed improving trends in the second half of 2009 as the macroeconomic conditions improved. Cost of Goods Sold 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Year over Year Cost of Goods % of Revenues Cost of Goods % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 162,082 35 % $ 181,037 42 % $ (18,955 ) -10 % Marine $ 72,429 41 % $ 93,052 46 % (20,623 ) -22 % Automotive/Mobile $ 1,192,227 58 % $ 1,560,816 61 % (368,589 ) -24 % Aviation 75,591 31 % $ 105,657 33 % (30,066 ) -28 % Total $ 1,502,329 51 % $ 1,940,562 56 % $ (438,233 ) -23 % Cost of goods sold decreased 23% in 2009 when compared to 2008 due primarily to the 16% decline in revenue. In addition, cost per unit declined in all segments driving cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue lower due to material cost reductions. This savings was partially offset by inventory reserves associated with the mobile handset initiatives. Gross Profit 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Year over Year Gross Profit % of Revenues Gross Profit % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 306,842 65 % $ 246,746 58 % $ 60,096 24 % Marine 105,215 59 % 111,425 54 % (6,210 ) -6 % Automotive/Mobile 861,900 42 % 977,595 39 % (115,695 ) -12 % Aviation 170,154 69 % 217,749 67 % (47,595 ) -22 % Total $ 1,444,111 49 % $ 1,553,515 44 % $ (109,404 ) -7 % 54 The decrease in gross profit dollars was primarily attributable to the automotive/mobile and aviation segments where the effects of revenue declines were partially offset by the improved gross margins earned. Gross profit margin percentage for the Company overall increased 450 basis points as margins expanded in all segments. The automotive/mobile segment gross profit margin percentage increase of 350 basis points was driven by material costs reductions partially offset by inventory reserves associated with the mobile handset initiative and price declines. Outdoor/fitness gross margin increased principally due to a newer suite of higher margin products. Gross profit margin percentage for marine and aviation increased compared to 2008 due to increased average selling price and decreases in per unit costs driven by product mix and material cost reductions. Advertising Expenses 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Advertising Advertising Year over Year Expense % of Revenues Expense % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 23,262 5 % $ 27,932 7 % $ (4,670 ) -17 % Marine 9,682 5 % 14,532 7 % (4,850 ) -33 % Automotive/Mobile 118,713 6 % 160,926 6 % (42,213 ) -26 % Aviation 3,864 2 % 4,787 1 % (923 ) -19 % Total $ 155,521 5 % $ 208,177 6 % $ (52,656 ) -25 % Advertising expense decreased both as a percentage of sales and in absolute dollars when compared to 2008. As a percent of sales, advertising expenses declined to 5% in 2009 compared to 6.0% in 2008. The decrease was a result of actions taken by the company to reduce costs as the macroeconomic conditions impacted sales across our segments and around the world combined with lower cooperative advertising which is tied to net sales levels. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Selling, General & Selling, General & Year over Year Admin. Expenses % of Revenues Admin. Expenses % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 47,799 10 % $ 32,800 8 % $ 14,999 46 % Marine 18,177 10 % 17,536 9 % 641 4 % Automotive/Mobile 172,473 8 % 206,954 8 % (34,481 ) -17 % Aviation 25,753 10 % 19,922 6 % 5,831 29 % Total $ 264,202 9 % $ 277,212 8 % $ (13,010 ) -5 % Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 5% in 2009 while it increased as a percentage of sales compared to 2008 as costs throughout the Company were reduced but not as rapidly as the revenue declines. The decline in costs was primarily related to a reduction in bad debt expense due to specific reserves recorded in 2008 as a result of vendor bankruptcies offset by increased costs for product support and information technology. The increased expense for the outdoor/fitness segment and the decreased expense for the automotive/mobile segment were driven by the allocation of costs based on revenues. As outdoor/fitness revenues have increased as a percentage of revenues, additional selling, general and administrative expenses are shifted to the segment. As a percent of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 8% in 2008 to 9% of sales in 2009, as revenues declined. Research and Development Expense 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Research & Research & Year over Year Development % of Revenues Development % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 23,776 5 % $ 25,419 6 % $ (1,643 ) -6 % Marine 21,448 12 % 19,374 9 % 2,074 11 % Automotive/Mobile 110,907 5 % 85,610 3 % 25,297 30 % Aviation 82,247 33 % 75,706 23 % 6,541 9 % Total $ 238,378 8 % $ 206,109 6 % $ 32,269 16 % 55 The increase in research and development expense dollars was due to ongoing development activities for new products including the mobile handset initiative, the addition of 230 new engineering personnel to our staff during the period, and an increase in engineering program costs in 2009 as a result of our continued emphasis on product innovation. Operating Income 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 52-weeks ended December 27, 2008 Year over Year Operating Income % of Revenues Operating Income % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor/Fitness $ 212,005 45 % $ 160,595 38 % $ 51,410 32 % Marine 55,908 31 % 59,983 29 % (4,075 ) -7 % Automotive/Mobile 459,807 22 % 524,105 21 % (64,298 ) -12 % Aviation 58,290 24 % 117,334 36 % (59,044 ) -50 % Total $ 786,010 27 % $ 862,017 25 % $ (76,007 ) -9 % Operating income increased 200 basis points as a percent of revenue but decreased 9% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period as gross margin percentage improvements and reduced advertising expense were more than offset by declining revenues and increased research and development expenses. Other Income (Expense) 52-weeks ended 52-weeks ended December 26, 2009 December 27, 2008 Interest Income $ 23,519 $ 35,535 Foreign Currency Exchange (6,040 ) (35,286 ) Gain on sale of marketable securities 2,741 50,884 Other 2,421 1,216 Total $ 22,641 $ 52,349 Other income (expense) principally consists of interest income and foreign currency exchange gains and losses. Other income (expense) was lower in fiscal 2009 relative to fiscal 2008, with the majority of this difference caused by a large gain on sale of equity securities in 2008. Interest income for fiscal 2009 decreased due to lower interest rates, partially offset by higher cash and marketable securities balances. The $6.0 million currency loss in 2009 was due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro, the British Pound Sterling and the Taiwan Dollar. During 2009, the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.4% and 8.3% compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, respectively, resulting in a gain of $5.8 million. A loss of $16.1 million resulted due to the U.S. Dollar weakening 2.3% against the Taiwan Dollar. The relative weakness of the Taiwan Dollar and Euro/British Pound Sterling have offsetting impacts due to the use of the Taiwan Dollar for manufacturing costs while the Euro and British Pound Sterling transactions relate to revenue. The remaining net currency gain of $4.3 million related to other currencies and timing of transactions. The $35.3 million currency loss in 2008 was related to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar offset by a gain associated with the sales and tender of our Tele Atlas N.V. shares. During 2008, the Taiwan Dollar weakened 1.6% in comparison to the U.S. Dollar, resulting in a $20.8 million gain. The Euro weakened 4.1% and the British Pound Sterling weakened 26.1% relative to the U.S. Dollar in 2008 which resulted in a $77.3 million loss. Offsetting this net loss was a realized gain of $21.5 million due to the strengthening of the Euro between the date of purchase of the Tele Atlas N.V. shares in October 2007 to the dates of tender in February, March, and June 2008. Other net currency losses and the timing of transactions created the remaining loss of $0.3 million. Gain on sale of equity of securities of $50.9 million in 2008 was primarily generated from the sale of our equity interest in Tele Atlas N.V. which we acquired in 2007 in connection with our announced intent to make a cash offer for all outstanding shares, which was subsequently abandoned. 56 Income Tax Provision Our fiscal 2009 earnings before taxes fell 12% when compared to 2008, while our income tax expense decreased 42%. Income taxes fell $76.8 million, to $104.7 million, for fiscal year 2009 from $181.5 million for fiscal year 2008, due to a lower effective tax rate and the reduced earnings before taxes. The effective tax rate was 12.9% for fiscal 2009 compared to 19.9% for fiscal 2008. The decrease in tax rate is due to the favorable mix of taxable income among the tax jurisdictions in which the Company operates and the release of income tax reserves for which the statute of limitations has expired. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above, net income decreased 4% to $704.0 million for fiscal year 2009 compared to $732.8 million for fiscal year 2008. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net cash generated by operations was $770.6 million, $1,094.5 million, and $862.2 million for fiscal years 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. Primary drivers of the cash generation in 2010 included $584.6 million of net income with non-cash adjustments for depreciation/amortization of $94.7 million, foreign currency unrealized losses of $62.8 million, stock compensation expense of $40.3 million, $129.7 million related to decreased accounts receivable as sales levels have declined and $131.3 million of sales for which cash was received but revenue was deferred as required by our revenue recognition policies. This cash generation was partially offset by uses of cash including a $144.5 million reduction in other current and noncurrent liabilities related primarily to the timing of royalty payments and the $146.4 million reversal of tax reserves associated with both release of uncertain tax position reserves from 2006 to 2008 related to our settlement with the IRS in the US and expiration of statute of limitations, a $81.4 million reduction in accounts payable primarily in our Taiwan manufacturing operations due to timing of payments, and a $77.1 million increase in inventories following a low inventory level exiting 2009. The decline in cash flow from operations over 2009 levels was due to reduced net income levels and the effect of the non cash income tax benefit realized from reduced tax reserves. We expect to generate cash flow from operations in 2011 with ongoing net income, as well as working capital gains through reduced accounts receivable and inventory levels as sales decline. Cash flow used in investing activities was $72.9 million, $547.9 million and $56.3 million for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash flow used in investing activities principally relates to the net redemption of or investment in fixed income securities, capital expenditures and acquisitions. Capital expenditures in 2010 totaled $32.2 million and related to business operations and maintenance activities. This has declined significantly from 2008 spending levels due to the completion of production and warehouse facility expansions. We have budgeted approximately $50 million of capital expenditures during fiscal 2011 to include normal ongoing capital expenditures and maintenance activities. In 2010 and 2009, net investment in fixed income securities of our on-hand cash was $25.5 million and $491.0 million, respectively, as we invested excess cash. In 2008, the net sale of fixed income securities was primarily related to $239.3 million of cash generated from the tender of our shares of Tele Atlas N.V. It is managements goal to invest the on-hand cash consistent with Garmins investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors. The investment policys primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmins average interest rate returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 were approximately 1.3%, 1.7% and 3.4%, respectively. In 2010, cash flow used in investing activities also included the acquisition of MetriGear, Inc. In 2008, cash flow used in investing for acquisitions related to the purchase of European distributors. Net cash used by financing activities in fiscal 2010 was $510.8 million resulting from the use of $298.9 million for payment of our declared dividend and $225.9 million for stock repurchased under our stock repurchase plan, partially offset by $14.0 million from the issuance of common stock related to our Company stock option plan and stock based compensation tax benefits. The 2010 dividend paid was significantly higher than prior years as the dividend was increased to $1.50 per share. Stock repurchases are made at the discretion of management under repurchase programs approved by the Board of Directors as business and market conditions warrant. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company repurchased 7.4 million shares, 0.7 million shares and 17.1 million shares, respectively. 57 We currently use cash flow from operations to fund our capital expenditures, to support our working capital requirements, to pay dividends and to repurchase shares. We expect that future cash requirements will principally be for capital expenditures, working capital, repurchase of shares, payment of dividends declared, and the funding of strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements at least through the end of fiscal 2011. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Future commitments of Garmin, as of December 25, 2010, aggregated by type of contractual obligation, are: Payments due by period Less than More than Contractual Obligations Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years Operating Leases $ 44,920 $ 10,397 $ 17,737 $ 12,205 $ 4,581 Operating leases describes lease obligations associated with Garmin facilities located in the U.S., Taiwan, Europe, and Canada. We may be required to make significant cash outlays related to unrecognized tax benefits. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits of $153.6 million as of December 25, 2010, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 2, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.