Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of managements assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Companys actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A Risk Factors. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. 3 Part I Item 1. Business This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments for external reporting purposes: auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. There are two operating segments (auto PND and auto OEM) that are not reported separately but are aggregated within the auto reportable segment. The Companys Chief Executive Officer, who has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), allocates resources and assesses performance of each operating segment individually. Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (Garmin Cayman). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the Redomestication). Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF) per share, of Garmin. At the Companys Annual General Meeting on June 10, 2016, the Companys shareholders approved the cancellation of 10,000,000 registered shares of the Company held by the Company (the Formation Shares) and the reduction in par value of each share of the Company from CHF 10 to CHF 0.10 and the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association to effect a corresponding share capital reduction. This share cancellation has reduced authorized shares from 208,077,418 shares to 198,077,418 shares, with an incremental 99,038,709 conditional shares that may be issued through the exercise of option rights, which are granted to Garmin employees or members of its Board of Directors. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group. Garmins annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmins directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmins website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains a website ( http://www.sec.gov ) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmins website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K. Company Overview For more than 30 years, Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the Company) has pioneered new wireless devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle, many of which feature Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation. Garmin serves five primary business units, including auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. We believe it is through these business units that Garmin is able to achieve synergies in raw material purchases, manufacturing, distribution, research and development, and marketing efforts making for a stronger, more effective company. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets, and distributes a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable, and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based and information products. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 220 million products, which included more than 15 million products delivered during fiscal 2019. 4 Products Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. Many of the Companys products utilize Global Positioning System (GPS) and other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) receivers as a product feature that can be utilized in a variety of applications, including navigation, global positioning and tracking. GPS is a United States owned satellite network constellation that supports global positioning and navigation, providing precise geographic location and related data to both commercial and government GPS receivers. Commercial access to GPS is provided free of charge. In addition to GPS, other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) utilized by Garmin products include Japans MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service, the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the European Union Galileo system, and the Chinese BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS). Some of Garmins products utilize a combination of global navigation satellite systems to improve navigational fix, which results in improved accuracy. On a subscription basis, certain Garmin products offer access to the Iridium satellite network, a synchronized constellation of 66 low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites offering global data communication coverage. Iridiums use of a LEO constellation network with 66 satellites gives it the ability to span the entire globe, offering 100 percent coverage worldwide to enable satellite-based communication. Fitness Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and lifestyle activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Fitness segment to consumers around the world: Running and Multi-sport Watches: Garmin running and multi-sport watches are offered under the Forerunner product series. The Forerunner series offers GPS-enabled watches with features unique to each model. Depending on model, features include wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, music storage capabilities, and Garmin Pay contactless payment. Cycling Products: Garmin cycling products include cycling computers, power meters, and safety and awareness equipment. Additionally, Garmin offers Tacx indoor training equipment, including smart and basic trainers. Activity Tracking and Smartwatch Devices: Garmin offers a wide range of activity tracking device and smartwatch devices. The Garmin product offerings include basic activity trackers, activity tracking fitness bands, GPS-enabled smartwatches, and fashion-forward hybrid smartwatches with analog style displays. The activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered by Garmin are the vvomove series, vvoactive series, vvosmart series, vvofit series, vvosport series, and the Venu. Each series of activity tracking and smartwatch devices offered has unique features, all to enhance and promote healthy and active lifestyles. Features of the activity tracking and smartwatch devices, depending on the series and model, include Garmin Pay, music storage capabilities, and 24/7 health monitoring. Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile: Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users can track and analyze their fitness, activities and workouts, and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups and group challenges, and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community. 5 Connect IQ: The Connect IQ application development platform enables third-parties to create a variety of experiences that run on a wide assortment of Garmin devices. Connect IQ provides developers with an easy-to-use software development kit (SDK) to facilitate development efforts in creating watch faces, applications, widgets, and data fields. These third-party applications are available for download by Garmin users via their mobile phone or computer and run on their compatible Garmin wearable, bike computer, golf device, or outdoor handheld. Outdoor Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Outdoor segment to consumers around the world: Outdoor Handhelds: Garmin offers outdoor handhelds under the Oregon, Rino, Montana, eTrex, GPSMAP, Foretrex and inReach product lines. Handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, preloaded maps, wi-fi and smartphone connectivity, two-way satellite communication and other features. Each series of products is designed to serve various price points. Handhelds with inReach include global satellite technology which, when combined with an active subscription, offers 2-way text messaging, S.O.S. capabilities and weather forecasts while anywhere in the world. Adventure Watches: Garmin adventure watches include the fnix series, Instinct series, tactix series, the Descent Mk1, and the MARQ collection. The fenix series offers premium multisport smartwatches with features such as wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, music storage capabilities, preloaded full-color topographical maps, Garmin Pay , and solar charging, depending on model. The Instinct series offers a rugged and reliable outdoor GPS smartwatch with built-in sports apps, heart rate sensor, smart connectivity and wellness data. The tactix series provides preloaded full-color topographical maps and tactical features inspired by military, law enforcement, and police special operations. The Descent Mk1 is a watch style dive computer that offers divers GPS navigation, multiple dive modes, and support for up to six gasses, The MARQ series is a collection of six luxury smart tool watches with premium materials and features unique to each watch. Golf Devices: Garmin golf devices are offered under the Approach product line. The Approach series includes handhelds, wearables, club sensors, and laser ranging devices. Over 41,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses are available to be utilized on certain Garmin golf devices. Handheld and wearable golf devices provide yardage distances to the front, back, and middle of the green. Dog Tracking and Training Devices : Garmin offers dog tracking and training devices under the Astro, Alpha, Atemos, PRO, Sport PRO, BarkLimiter, and Delta product lines. Aviation The Garmin aviation segment is a leading provider of solutions to aircraft manufacturers, existing aircraft owners and operators, as well as government/defense customers and serves a range of aircraft including business aviation, general aviation, experimental/light sport, helicopters, optionally piloted vehicles (OPV), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and more. Garmins portfolio includes autonomous flight solutions, flight displays, navigation, communication, flight control, hazard avoidance, weather radar, radar altimeter, datalink weather receivers and services, engine information systems, traffic collision avoidance systems, terrain awareness and warning systems (TAWS), controller-pilot data link (CPDLC), an expansive suite of automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) solutions, in-cockpit and cloud connectivity, wearables, portables, apps, training, simulation, flight planning/filing, premium trip services, aviation data services as well as other solutions that are known for innovation, reliability, and value. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered by Garmin around the world: 6 Integrated Flight Decks/Flight Displays: Garmin offers a range of integrated glass flight decks from the G1000 NXi for the general aviation and business aviation markets to the G5000 for business aviation, defense and commercial applications. Integrated capabilities include navigation, communication, flight instruments, weather, terrain, traffic, ADS-B, engine information on large high-resolution color displays, and automatic flight control systems. Head-up display technology virtually mirrors the primary flight display instruments allowing for increased aircraft capability in adverse weather conditions. Additional features include: Garmins 3-D synthetic vision technology (SVT), weather, Garmins electronic stability and protection system (ESP), electronic flight charts, touchscreen and voice controls, CPDLC, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding to their input. Garmin offers similar integrated glass flight decks for the helicopter market with the G1000H NXi, G3000H, and G5000H. Basic and advanced capabilities are similar to those offered to the fixed-wing aircraft market. The helicopter offerings have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT), helicopter terrain awareness and warning system with voice call outs, radar altimeter display, helicopter-specific databases that include additional heliports and low-altitude obstacles, WireAware wire-strike avoidance technology, as well as high resolution terrain, tailored ADS-B traffic alerting, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources. Garmin also offers all-glass integrated flight decks to the retrofit market through G950 NXi, G1000 NXi, G3000 and G5000. Additionally, Garmin offers electronic flight display solutions that provide essential information such as aircraft altitude, attitude and heading while also displaying data from other avionics such as weather, traffic and much more. These solutions include G3X Touch, G500H TXi, G500 TXi, G600 TXi and G700 TXi. Electronic Flight Instruments: To help aircraft owners with aging aircraft systems while provide modern flight display capability and preserve the integrity of their original aircraft panel, Garmin offers the G5 and GI 275 electronic flight instruments. These instruments are designed to replace existing mechanical attitude indicator, attitude directional indicator (ADI), course deviation indicator (CDI), horizontal situation indicator (HSI), engine indication system (EIS), and it can serve as a standby to a number of flight displays. Panel-mount aviation products: GPS/Navigation/Communication Solutions: Garmin serves the market with the GTN Xi series, a premium touchscreen GPS, VHF navigation and communication, and multi-function display (MFD). In addition to these core functions, this series of products combines a wealth of information for the pilot into a single display including flight planning, datalink weather, weather radar, traffic, terrain awareness and warning system (TAWS/HTAWS), charts, airport information, airspace boundaries, and much more. Additional capabilities provide advanced ADS-B In traffic display, including TerminalTraffic and patented TargetTrend technology as well as the ability to control the display with voice commands. Advanced GTN Xi integration capabilities provide the option to install and control a remotely located transponder and audio processor for an even more streamlined installation and single interface. The GTN Xi series also provides wireless cockpit connectivity (when properly equipped) with mobile device apps (such as Garmin Pilot) or portable aviation navigators (such as aera 660). Wireless cockpit connectivity features can include voice call control, text messaging, automatic wireless database updating via Database Concierge, wireless flight plan transfer, SiriusXM radio control, sharing of weather, traffic, position information and more. In 2019, Garmin introduced the GPS 175, GNC 355, and GNX 375, adding to the range of GPS navigators offered. The GPS 175 is a GPS navigator with a color touchscreen display and WAAS/LPV approach capabilities. The GNC 355 adds a built-in Comm radio to the color touchscreen GPS navigator with WAAS/LPV approach capabilities. The GNX 375 features ADS-B Out, as well as dual-link ADS-B In via a built-in transponder to the color touchscreen GPS navigator. Garmin also offers more traditional VHF navigation and VHF communication transceivers with the GNC and GTR series. 7 Traffic Solutions: Garmin offers a comprehensive line of traffic alert and collision avoidance systems (TCAS) and traffic advisory systems (TAS) for all markets served. Advanced TCAS II systems actively identify potential aircraft threats, coordinate and instruct the pilot with a resolution advisory (RA) via a spoken command. The GTS series also offers TCAS I and TAS that combine active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use our patented CLEAR CAS technology to correlate passive automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) targets with active surveillance targets for a more comprehensive display to the pilot . These systems can also provide audible alerts in a spoken ATC-like format that is easily understood by the pilot and allows them to keep their eyes outside of the aircraft. Audio Solutions: The GMA series of audio panels ranging from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational pilot to advanced capabilities including voice control of audio panel and GTN Xi series functions, Bluetooth connectivity for wireless music input, phone calls, advanced audio effects, 3D spatial audio processing, digital voice recorder, advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustment and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. When connected to a Garmin GTN Xi series navigator, advanced voice control functions are available, and include the ability to change page views, load destination frequencies and much more. Transponder and ADS-B Solutions: Garmin offers solutions for all aviation markets we serve that meet and exceed both FAA and EASAs ADS-B requirements. For business aviation aircraft, Garmin pairs the GTX 3000 transponder and GDL 88 datalink for both ADS-B out and in while mitigating the need to modify the existing aircraft panel. The GTX 345 and GTX 335 are also available as an option for some business aviation aircraft. Business aviation, general aviation, helicopters and experimental/light sport aircraft can utilize our popular GTX 345 series of all-in-one ADS-B transponders that offer options with and without GPS built-in (if the aircraft is not already equipped with the required GPS source) as well as ADS-B In. ADS-B In information can be displayed on most Garmin multi-function displays and integrated flight decks as well as select third party displays. Additionally, the GTX 345 can wirelessly transmit this data to a portable device such as a tablet using the Garmin Pilot app or compatible Garmin aviation portable. ADS-B In offers pilots basic weather information including weather radar imagery, as well as traffic information that can be enhanced with our TerminalTraffic and patented TargetTrend technology. A diversity antenna option is available that adds a second antenna on top of the aircraft for better overall system performance and/or to support applications that require sending position information to satellites. Garmin also offers a range of FAA certified UAT-based ADS-B products within the GDL series, including both ADS-B Out and ADS-B In/Out solutions with options for built-in GPS. Many of the ADS-B In capable products provide traffic correlation with both Garmin and other compatible third-party traffic systems (such as TCAS) to provide a single, correlated display of traffic to the pilot. Weather Solutions: Weather capabilities are delivered within our GDL, GSR, GSX, GTX and GWX series. Garmin solutions include offering SiriusXM satellite data link weather information (subscription required) to an aircraft via various panel-mount Garmin displays and/or portable devices. With our GSR 56 datalink, on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required) is available. The GWX and GSX series offer solid state, real-time, airborne doppler-capable weather radar solutions. Doppler-enhanced features include ground-clutter suppression and turbulence detection. Advanced capabilities also include lightning and hail prediction, volumetric autoscanning and predictive windshear technology. Flight Control Solutions: Garmin offers both standalone and integrated flight control solutions. Our G1000 NXi, G2000, G3000 and G5000 platforms are integrated with our GFC 700 digital autopilot and optionally with our autothrottle solution. For aircraft not equipped with a Garmin integrated flight deck, we offer the GFC 600 and GFC 500 digital autopilots. The GFC 600 and GFC 500 uniquely integrate with our other retrofit avionics to allow display of the autopilot modes, flight director (FD) command cues and more. The unique design of our autopilots delivers superior in-flight characteristics, self-monitoring capabilities and minimal maintenance needs when compared to older generation autopilot systems. 8 Autonomi Safety Solutions: Garmin offers autonomously activated safety solutions, when appropriately equipped, to help aid the safety of the pilot and passengers. Electronic Stability and Protection (ESP) is a safeguard that assists pilots to maintain safe, stable flight by monitoring the aircrafts flight condition to help prevent loss of control. Emergency Descent Mode (EDM) helps pilots and passengers in the event a pressurized cabin becomes depressurized by descending to a lower altitude. Garmin Autoland takes complete control of the flight to land the airplane in an emergency where the pilot is unable to fly. Autoland is engaged automatically or by pressing a button. It automatically searches for the nearest airport while considering weather, terrain, fuel and more. It keeps the passengers informed while communicating with ATC. It automatically engages aircraft controls like flaps, throttles, brakes to land the aircraft without any intervention from the pilot. Portable and Wearable Solutions: Garmin offers a variety of portable aviation solutions, including our aera series portable navigators, D2 series pilot watches, inReach global communicators and GDL series remote ADS-B/SiriusXM receivers. The aera series offers aviators a touchscreen navigation device compatible with a complement of aviation databases including navigation, SafeTaxi, FliteCharts, airport directory and terrain/obstacles for heightened situational awareness. Advanced features can include: 3D Vision virtual perspective view of surrounding terrain, a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, geo-referenced sectional and approach charts, wireless database updating, and SiriusXM radio and weather display (subscription required). Complementing the portable display products and the Garmin Pilot mobile application is the GDL 52 series, which can provide a remote source of GPS, ADS-B In information for traffic and weather, SiriusXM weather and audio as well as backup attitude reference. The Garmin wearable aviation solutions include our D2 series pilot watches, which offer a built-in worldwide aviation navigation database and more alongside multisport and smartwatch features. Designed specifically for aviators, the current D2 series can display weather information (METARS and TAFs) as well as weather radar from an internet connected smartphone. Other flight information capabilities include a moving map overlaid with the aircrafts position, HSI navigation, Zulu/UTC time and more. With a built-in baro-adjustable altimeter, vibrating alerts based on altitude can be activated to remind a pilot to activate supplemental oxygen or perform other time critical tasks. The D2 Delta series watches also include multisport features with wrist-based heart rate monitoring, smartwatch capabilities, music storage capabilities, and a wrist-based pulse oximeter sensor available on the D2 Delta PX. inReach satellite communications and services provide the ability to stay in touch globally. Send and receive messages, navigate your route, track and share your journey and, if necessary, trigger an SOS to get emergency help from a 24/7 global monitoring center via the 100% global Iridium satellite network. Offering additional value for pilots, inReach is integrated with FlightServices Surveillance Enhanced Search and Rescue (SE-SAR) and Adverse Condition Alerting Service (ACAS) programs. These programs allow FlightService to track your position reports and respond quickly in an emergency situation as well as provide any adverse weather conditions that may develop on the planned route of flight. 9 Services : Mobile Applications : Garmin Pilot is a premium, global app for iOS or Android mobile devices used for flight planning, filing a flight plan, in flight navigation, and automatic flight logging. It offers a comprehensive and simplified experience to access a wealth of information during any particular phase of the flight including weight and balance, performance, and trip calculations, checklists, airport information, weather, traffic, 3D Vision virtual perspective view of surrounding terrain, a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, geo-referenced sectional and approach charts, wireless database updating, ADS-B weather and traffic as well as SiriusXM radio and weather (subscription required). It incorporates global or regional navigation databases and charting options from Garmin as well as optional Jeppesen data and charts. While internet connected, the app provides access to comprehensive global weather information, as available per region, that generally includes weather radar, weather report (METARS), forecasts (TAFs/MOS), weather alerts (AIRMETS/SIGMETS), pilot reports, satellite imagery (visible and IR), winds and temperature aloft, lightning data, and notices to airmen (NOTAM). Garmin Pilot is the cornerstone of Garmins connected cockpit, for example when connected wirelessly with G1000 NXi, a host of benefits become available including automated database updates for the avionics, flight plan transfer, weather and traffic streaming, real-time engine information and much more. Garmin Pilot is also wirelessly compatible with select aera series portables, D2 aviator watches, G3X Touch flight displays, GTX series transponders, inReach communicators and much more. Additionally, the FltPlan Go app offers pilots a free, advertisement supported, alternative to Garmin Pilot and is available for iOS, Android, and Mac. The FltTrack app, available for iOS and Android, allows users to view flights by aircraft registration on high-resolution, full-screen maps with weather radar. Flight details include both filed and actual departure times and filed/amended routes. Web Services: Pilots and operators can utilize a variety of Garmin web applications before, during and after flights. FltPlan.com is the core of these applications and is trusted by pilots and flight departments to plan and file more flight plans than any other provider. It is renowned for fuel burn accuracy, reliable flight times, accurate routing and features performance profiles for more than 320 aircraft models from experimental aircraft to inter-continental business jets. FltPlan.com offers a suite of comprehensive trip services designed to help support pilots and flight departments. Services include Pre-departure clearances, runway analysis, eAPIS, international handling, privacy services with DOT COM call signs, flight tracking, fleet management and flight logistics/scheduling. For flight scheduling, FltLogic.com offers a comprehensive suite of features from trip requests and approvals to flight planning and post-flight reporting to meet complex and changing operational needs. FltPlan Manager is an integrated, web-based fleet tracking program designed specifically for charter operations, large flight departments, and fractional operations. It offers operators better insight and control of their fleet from a single administrative account. FltSafety.com is a safety management system website that assists pilots and flight departments in managing potential hazards and risks and ensuring overall safety within flight operations. Aviation Databases: Garmin offers a wide selection of databases, extended warranties and subscription services to complement our products. Our database offerings include Navigation Data, Obstacles, SafeTaxi enhanced airport diagrams, Terrain, Basemap and more. Some of these databases are required by government regulations to be updated regularly for legal flight, and Garmin offers single updates as well as annual subscriptions for owners and operators to update all of an aircraft's qualifying avionics systems at a single price. With a database subscription and compatible avionics, owners and operators can conveniently and wirelessly transfer the latest database updates to their avionics via a mobile device running our Garmin Pilot application. 10 Extended Warranties: Garmins aviation product support team has been honored with top awards from two of the leading independent avionics support surveys for 16 consecutive years. To further our full product support beyond the standard product warranties, we also offer fixed price extended warranties for integrated flight decks and custom plans tailored to the owner or operators needs, allowing them peace of mind and predictable maintenance costs. These further our standard warranty periods with world-class factory technical service, 24/7 aircraft-on-ground (AOG) emergency service and more. Datalink Communications: Garmins comprehensive satellite datalink network subscriptions provide owners and operators with compatible avionics, a global weather, voice calling, text messaging and position reporting solution. Global weather includes radar imagery, cloud cover, METARs, TAFs and much more for any point on the globe where the data is available (weather products vary by region). Auto Garmin designs and develops products for use in the auto market that are offered to customers around the world. Personal Navigation Devices (PND): Garmin offers personal navigation devices under the Garmin Drive, zmo, dzl, RV, Overlander, and Garmin fleet product lines. The zmo series offers motorcycle-specific features. The RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. The dzl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the Garmin fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system. The Overlander is a rugged, all-terrain navigator with a 7-inch color touchscreen and topography maps for off-road guidance in North and South America. Garmin PNDs feature large screens, Amazon Alexa integration, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance, map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal junction views (thousands of high-quality photos of actual upcoming junctions), Bluetooth hands-free capability, DashCams, driver awareness alerts, and backup cameras. Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Solutions: Garmin has cultivated key relationships with many automobile manufacturers to be the provider of a variety of auto OEM solutions. These range from complete embedded infotainment systems that provide a broad range of functionality, to integrated camera solutions, embedded navigation solutions, and precise positioning technology solutions. These support not only the infotainment system in the vehicle, but also key advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) functionality as well. Cameras : Garmin offers GPS-enabled DashCams that provide high-quality video recording, provide forward collision and lane departure warnings, and automatically saves video footage with G-sensor incident detection. DashCams are offered as compact, discreet standalone cameras that can be mounted to a car windshield or built-in to certain PNDs. Garmin also offers wireless backup cameras that can be utilized with compatible PNDs to display camera footage behind the vehicle when the vehicle is in reverse. Marine Garmin is a leading manufacturer of recreational marine electronics and offers a broad range of products. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Marine segment to consumers around the world: Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs): Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP and ECHOMAP product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable and fix-mounted products to 24-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings and include wireless connectivity to the ActiveCaptain mobile app. 11 Cartography : Garmin is a premier supplier of cartography for the recreational marine market. Including the Garmin-owned Navionics branded charting products, Garmin is the worldwide leader in recreational marine content for most major chartplotters and MFDs on the market. Cartography product options range from worldwide basemaps to highly detailed BlueChart g3, BlueChart g3 Vision, LakeV g3 and LakeV g3 Ultra charts, Navionics+, Platinum+ and Hotmaps Platinum products with coverage in many parts of the world, offering auto-guidance (Garmin US-patented), Navionics Dock to dock autorouting, 3-D chart views and aerial reference photos. Fishfinders: Garmin offers an advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker series, which incorporate GPS technology enabling Quickdraw Contours, and wireless features through the ActiveCaptain mobile app. These fishfinders are available in screen sizes from 4 to 9 inches and are paired with latest technology sonar transducers offered by Garmin to provide the clearest sonar pictures on the water. SONAR: Garmin also offers the Panoptix all seeing sonar smart transducer line. Panoptix provides detailed real-time, high-resolution images that can be seen in downward, 3D, and forward-looking views for locating the fish and seeing what is coming before you get there. Garmin also offers CHIRP black-box sounders and smart transducers which interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the deep-water sounders and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. The black boxes provide CHIRP traditional, Ultra High-Definition ClearV, and Ultra High-Definition SideV sonar, similar to our integrated sonar plotters, but can be mounted in a more convenient location away from the helm. Autopilot Systems: Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as Garmins patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various steering systems. RADAR: Garmin offers high-tech solid state Fantom radar with MotionScope Doppler technology, lowering system power consumption while greatly improving situational awareness of the captain. MotionScope can instantly show if a target is closing in or safely going the other direction. Fantom radars are available in both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. Garmin also offers a full line of magnetron radars up to 25kW of transmit power. Instruments : Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Garmin instrument displays are offered under the GNX series and GMI series. VHF Communication Radios: Garmin offers marine VHF radios and AIS transceivers with the latest feature sets including integrated GPS receivers for the communication needs of all types of mariners. Garmin radios are NMEA 2000 compatible. Mid-range and premium radios offered are designed for larger vessels and include NMEA 0183, offer multi-station support, and monitor all AIS channels. Handhelds and Wearable Devices: Garmin offers floating marine GPS handhelds under the GPSMAP handheld series. These marine GPS handhelds feature a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography. Some handhelds contain built-in InReach satellatie communication and support ConnectIQ applications. Garmin also offers the quatix series wearable, GPS-enabled smartwatches designed for mariners, which include marine features for navigation, sailing, stereo control, and even some autopilot functions. Sailing: Garmin has integrated many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These SailAssist features include enhanced wind rose with true and apparent wind data, pre-race guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields. 12 Entertainment: Garmins entertainment brand, Fusion, consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine or RV environments and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs, smartphones, and Garmin wearables. Digital Switching: Garmin offers a digital switching product line under the EmpirBus brand. The Garmin EmpirBus products provide power distribution and control solutions for marine and RV applications which enable advanced logic controls and smart electrical systems to enhance features in a boat or RV. The system features customizable graphics and user interface for the ultimate user experience. Control for EmpirBus products is integrated into Garmins marine multi-function displays and RV OEM products. Trolling Motors: Garmin offers the Force Trolling Motor, a powerful, efficient scissor-lift style trolling motor with built-in CHIRP and Ultra High-Definition ClearV and SideV sonar. The Force product line also connects wirelessly to Garmin chartplotters/MFDs to provide navigation, autopilot, and anchor lock integration. Sales and Marketing Garmins non-aviation products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a large worldwide network of independent retailers, online retailers, specialty dealers, dealers and distributors as well as through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. Garmins retrofit avionics and portable aviation products are sold through a large group of approved independent Sales and Service Centers around the world and, in the case of portable aviation products, also through select catalogs and pilot shops. No single customers purchases represented 10% or more of Garmins consolidated net sales in the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmins offices around the world. Garmins distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmins global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets. Garmin believes that its principal competitor for portable automotive products is TomTom N.V. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment solutions are Alpine Electronics, Harman International Industries, the Mitsubishi Group, and Panasonic Corporation. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Casio, Dogtra, Samsung, Shearwater Research, SportDOG Brand, Suunto, TAG Heuer, Tissot, and Vista Outdoor. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Apple, Bryton, Fitbit, Huami, Huawei, Polar Electro Oy, Samsung, Sigma Sports, Suunto, and Wahoo Fitness. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Flir Systems, Furuno, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, and Navico. For Garmins aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, CMC Electronics, Collins Aerospace, Dynon Avionics, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell Aerospace & Defense, Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Safran SA, Thales, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation. 13 Research and Development Garmins product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmins engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmins products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered approximately 4,500 people worldwide as of December 28, 2019. Garmins manufacturing staff, which numbered approximately 4,900 people worldwide as of December 28, 2019, includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmins development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmins success. Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing. Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes one of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi, Jhongli and LinKou, its China facility in Yangzhou, its Netherlands facility in Wassenaar, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes that its ownership and operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets. Specifically, Garmin believes that its vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality, and time to market. Cost: Garmins manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency, resulting in lower cost. Garmins vertical integration approach enables leveraging of manufacturing resources across high, mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across product lines favorably affects Garmins costs to produce its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of higher volume products. The ownership and integration of its resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of its products, yielding improved cost. Quality: Garmins automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enable Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams, providing integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain. Time to Market: Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products, allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable faster time to market. Garmins design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its U.S., Taiwan, China and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmins automotive operations in Taiwan, China, U.K., and Olathe have achieved IATF 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmins Olathe and Salem aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry. Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmins systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and continually strive to improve its environmental performance. 14 Materials Although most components essential to Garmins business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject, at times, to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations. Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics, and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, and consumer electronics industries. New products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements and safety stock for strategically important components. Seasonality Our net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our auto OEM and aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of auto program manufacturing, aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Backlog There is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business. For example, Garmin obtains licenses from various sources for digital cartography technology for use in our products. As of January 10, 2020, Garmin has been issued over 1,350 patents throughout the world and holds more than 900 trademark registrations. The duration of patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmins rights in its proprietary technologies. There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. 15 Regulations The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft. Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Companys principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmins operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits apply to remittances involving a conversion between Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC. Environmental Matters Garmins operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes. Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget. Historically, capital expenditures associated with environmental controls have not been material and compliance with environmental laws has not had a material impact on the Companys competitive position. Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency. Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial. Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management. Garmins EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmins Kansas headquarters facility, Garmins European headquarters facility, and Garmins Taiwan and China manufacturing facilities. Garmin continues to strive to reduce our carbon footprint by increasing our environmental sustainability efforts. Our manufacturing locations have implemented increased recycling processes that keep all obsolete Garmin manufactured material from entering the waste stream. Additionally, our newly completed facility in Olathe, Kansas has been constructed with energy efficient considerations, including reduced water consumption, LED lighting, and reflective roofing to deflect solar radiation. 16 Employees As of December 28, 2019, the Company had approximately 15,000 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom approximately 5,700 were in Americas region, 7,300 were in APAC, and 2,000 were in EMEA. Except for some of Garmins employees in Sweden, none of Garmins employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be positive. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits from declining segments or product categories are not entirely offset. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. This is particularly important to replace sales and profits lost in declining segments or product categories. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for many of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 17 Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. We have experienced growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which in recent years have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our annual and quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The operation of our subsidiaries in global markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations. We have not historically used financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risks. The currencies that typically create a majority of our exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, fluctuations of other currencies are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. We translate income and expense activity at the approximate rate of exchange at the transaction date, and all assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense activity in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar can be impacted by exchange rate variations over time. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses. Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company. Our tax positions could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns, particularly in the US, Switzerland, Taiwan, and UK. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Global taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations. While these recommendations do not change tax law, the countries where we operate may implement legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements. Partially to respond to recent and continuing changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction which migrates ownership of certain consumer products intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the primary location of research, development and executive management. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we are pursuing an advanced pricing agreement with relevant jurisdictions to provide certainty regarding the pricing. However, we are unable to predict the outcome of the final advanced pricing agreement and related negotiations, which could materially and/or adversely impact our income tax provision, net income or cash flows for periods during negotiation and upon finalization. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, most notably in the area of transfer pricing. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 18 Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, or tariffs, could significantly harm our results of operations. We manufacture goods in the Peoples Republic of China and import certain materials from the Peoples Republic of China that are used to manufacture goods in the United States. The imposition of additional governmental controls or regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, or tariffs, particularly those applicable to materials or goods from the Peoples Republic of China, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Economic, regulatory, and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. We have global operations which make up a significant portion of our total revenue, which can present challenges depending on economic and geopolitical conditions on both a global and regional scale. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue in the past, and could in the future result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Our principal manufacturing facilities, where we manufacture most of our consumer products, are located in Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the Peoples Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future, could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands, and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. Deviations from the "one-China" policy could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could adversely affect our operations in Taiwan in the future. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. We have generally been able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a diverse product portfolio, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations: If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. 19 We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for specific components and map data used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components. In the past, we have experienced shortages of certain components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. We are also dependent on third party licensors for digital mapping data used in our products. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for some of our products and geographical regions. If we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data from our suppliers and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if our relationships with our suppliers change detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed. The effects of the United Kingdoms withdrawal from the European Union (Brexit), including trade agreements, are not yet known and the uncertainty creates challenges and risks which could have a material effect on our business and results of operations. The United Kingdom (UK) formally left the European Union (EU) on January 31, 2020. A transition period through December 31, 2020 has been established to allow the UK and EU to negotiate the terms of the UKs withdrawal. However, there is continued uncertainty surrounding the future relationship between the UK and EU, including trade agreements between the UK and EU. Additionally, long-term risks of Brexit include economic recessions in the UK or other European markets and currency instability for both the British Pound Sterling and the Euro. We have operations in the UK, including offices and a distribution facility, and several EU member states, and therefore Brexit will impact our operations. We have certain measures in place to reduce the impact to our business operations; however, risks such as slow or inefficient border clearance, prolonged economic recession, and currency fluctuations could have material adverse effects on our business operations, results of operations, and financial condition. As noted in our other risk factors, currency volatility of the British Sterling Pound and Euro could have significant effects on our results of operations. Depending on finalization of a trade agreement between the UK and the EU during the transition period, the impacts of Brexit may have a lesser impact to our financial condition and business operations. Given the number of different outcomes still possible, the impacts of Brexit are difficult to determine until specific terms of the withdrawal are reached. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. 20 The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties may claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our products malfunction or contain errors or defects, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable which, if not expected, could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Continued declines in auto PND revenue and significant investments in auto OEM could negatively impact total Company profits and shareholder value. We experienced substantial growth through 2008 in our auto segment as PNDs became mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America. This auto PND market is declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. Navigation technologies have been incorporated into and become more prevalent in competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. The acceptance by consumers of these alternative solutions has negatively impacted sales and profits in the auto segment. There is no assurance that the decline in sales will end, and thus no assurance that we can continue to generate profits from the auto segment. We have recently been awarded several tier-one and tier-two auto OEM supplier contracts. To fulfill the associated program commitments, we are investing significantly in facilities, research and development, and other operating expenses and we will continue to do so in the coming years. Gross margins associated with these auto OEM programs are expected to be lower than the gross margins realized in the auto segment and the Company as a whole in recent periods. If we are not successful in winning additional contract awards or substantially leveraging our investments, periods of lower operating income or operating losses in the auto segment could negatively impact total Company profits and shareholder value. 21 Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources and increased warranty claims, and litigation . Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or use competitive products. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, information security, and data protection, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such regulations and obligations could harm our business. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Due to the volume and types of the personal information and data we manage and the nature of our products and applications, the security features of our platform and information systems are critical. If our security measures or applications are breached, are disrupted or fail, unauthorized persons may be able to obtain access to user data. If we or our third-party service providers, business partners, or third-party apps with which our users choose to share their Garmin data were to experience a breach, disruption or failure of systems compromising our users data or the media suggested that our security measures or those of our third-party service providers were insufficient, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. Depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach, disruption or other unauthorized access to our user data, we may also have obligations to notify users about the incident and we may need to provide some form of remedy for the individuals affected by the incident. A growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises user data. Our users may also accidentally disclose or lose control of their passwords, creating the perception that our systems or those of our third-party service providers are not secure against third-party access. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, business partners, service providers, or developers, violate applicable laws, agreements, or our policies, such violations may also put our users information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. Regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, including in the United States, have enacted or are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. In May 2018, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) went into effect in the EU. On January 1, 2020, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) went into effect, and other States in the United States are considering adopting data privacy laws. Noncompliance with GDPR. CCPA, or other data protection laws in other States in the United States or in other countries, could result in significant fines and penalties. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe, Asia, Latin America, and elsewhere are sometimes uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our interpretation and data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 22 We rely on information technology systems for our business operations. Failures or disruptions, including security breaches or cyber attacks, to our information technology systems may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and result of operations. Our information technology systems allow for our daily business operations to operate efficiently and effectively. These systems assist in our business processes, including, but not limited to, communications, financial management, supply chain management, order processing, shipping and billing, and providing services and support to our customers. Additionally, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A disruption to any of these processes can adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, a breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property as well as our customers' or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our competitive position and operating results as a result of theft of our intellectual property and could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. We have technology and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Our technology errors and omissions insurance may not protect against all of the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system failure. If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may suffer significant reputational and financial losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject us to private litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that products life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 23 Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Act) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (CFCs). Prior to the 2017 Act, the Company did not believe we, or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries, were considered a CFC, which is a determination made daily based on whether the 10% U.S. shareholders together own, or are considered to own as a result of the attribution rules, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of a non-U.S. corporation. The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. The repeal is effective as of the last taxable year of CFCs beginning before January 1, 2018 and for the taxable year of 10% U.S. shareholders in which the CFCs' taxable year ends. Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act amended Section 965 to require 10% U.S. shareholders to include in income their pro-rata share of certain earnings and profits (E&P) of CFCs. This Section 965 inclusion is accompanied by a partial dividends-received deduction. The 2017 Act also added Section 951A which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC. Finally, the 2017 Act eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion. From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a stock buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability. Some of our products are subject to governmental regulation or certification. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis, either due to government shutdown or other delays in the certification process, could harm our business. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted, and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Additionally, failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in a shut down of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees, due to partial or complete government shutdowns or otherwise, could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, in accordance with FCC rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC in the United States and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. 24 Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide shortage of qualified engineers in the United States who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development costs, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been lower in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, evaluate, complete, and integrate such transactions. We intend to evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. 25 Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. Due diligence performed prior to closing acquisitions may not uncover certain risks or liabilities that could materially impact our business and financial results. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the GDPR and other corporate governance and regulatory matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other Global Satellite Navigation Systems (GNSS). The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 20 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of GPS and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and GPS were no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. Some of our products also use satellite signals from the Russian GLONASS System. Other countries, including China and India, are in the process of creating their own GNSS systems, and we either have developed or will develop products which use GNSS signals from these systems. The European community is developing an independent radio navigation satellite system, known as Galileo. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-US GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based on competing technologies. 26 Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Governments GPS satellites. GPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change could affect our financial results. Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis or earthquakes, and medical epidemics or pandemics, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus disease), could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which would cause disruptions in our business operations or loss of inventory. These events could also have an impact on our suppliers and affect our supply chain. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption and if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected. Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to evolving regulatory and legislative measures surrounding climate change. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. At the federal legislative level, U.S. Congress could pass legislation to adopt some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program. It is also possible that the U.S. Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency. Such measures could influence mobility and transportation trends, which could decrease the demand for certain of our products. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 27 Risks Relating to Our Shares The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2019, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $61.39 to a high of $98.68. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates and global currency exchange rates; announcements of technological innovations; product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 16, 2020, members of our Board of Directors, and our executive officers, together with their respective immediate family members and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 22% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed at a shareholders meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. 28 We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax. As of December 28, 2019, we had CHF 5,650 million of unappropriated capital contribution reserves available from which the Company may make dividend payments or utilize to repurchase shares for which no withholding tax applies. At the time this reserve balance has been returned to shareholders through dividends or share repurchases, a Swiss federal withholding tax of 35% will generally be applicable to any dividends paid to shareholders. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss federal Tax Administration. A holder that qualifies for benefits under a double tax treaty may be able to recover partial withholding tax. For example, a U.S holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). After we have exhausted our remaining capital contribution reserves by appropriating them for dividends or share repurchases, any dividends paid by the Company will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at 35%. However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to pay a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. Under current Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. Therefore, repurchase of our own shares further limits the amount of capital reserves available for distributions to shareholders free of Swiss withholding taxes. No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares to the extent sufficient capital reserves are available. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years and there is not sufficient capital contribution reserves, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six-year period. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 29 We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. Under Swiss law we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase and hold our own shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, if our shareholders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Garmin and its subsidiaries own a majority of their principal properties and lease certain other properties. Depending on location, the properties could be used for manufacturing, warehousing, research and development, office space, or a combination of activities. Garmins principal properties are described below: Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. own and occupy facilities of approximately 1,990,000 square feet on approximately 107 acres in Olathe, Kansas, where the majority of product design and development work is conducted, the majority of aviation panel-mount products are manufactured, and products are warehoused, distributed, and supported for North, Central and South America. The 1,990,000 square feet includes a newly constructed 775,000 square foot manufacturing and distribution center. The previous manufacturing and distribution space is currently being renovated into a research and development facility and supporting office space. In connection with the bond financings for the facility in Olathe and the expansions of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to the Olathe facilities, which are leased to Garmins subsidiaries by the City. Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe is obligated to transfer title to Garmins subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of $200. Garmin International, Inc. has purchased all the outstanding bonds and expects to continue to hold the bonds until maturity in order to benefit from property tax abatement. Garmin International, Inc. leases 148,000 square feet of land at New Century Airport in Gardner, Kansas under a ground lease and occupies two aircraft hangars on this land, one of which is owned (47,000 square feet) and the other leased (53,000 square feet). Both properties serve as flight test and certification facilities that are used in development and certification of aviation products. Garmin AT, Inc. leases approximately 18 acres of land in Salem, Oregon under a ground lease. This ground lease expires in 2030, but Garmin AT, Inc. has the option to extend the ground lease until 2050. Garmin AT, Inc. owns and occupies a 115,000 square foot facility for office, development and manufacturing use and a 33,000 square foot aircraft hangar that serves as a flight test and certification facility on this land. Garmin AT, Inc. also owns and occupies an additional 66,000 square foot facility on the same property for Garmins West Coast customer support call center and for research and development activities. Garmin Corporation owns and occupies 247,000 and 185,000 square foot facilities in Xizhi Dist., New Taipei City, Taiwan, a 224,000 square foot facility in Jhongli, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan, and a 576,000 square foot facility in LinKou, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan. Garmin China YangZhou Co., Ltd. leases a 204,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples Republic of China. These facilities are used for the manufacturing and warehousing of most of Garmins auto, fitness, marine, and outdoor products, as well as portable aviation products. These facilities are also used for some research and development activities and the marketing and support of products for Asia Pacific countries. 30 Garmin (Europe) Ltd. owns and occupies a 155,000 square foot building located in Totton, Southampton, England, used as offices and a distribution facility. Garmin also owns and leases other properties, both internationally and domestically, not described above, that are used for office space, retail, and warehousing. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Companys management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company settled or resolved certain matters during the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure None. Information about our Executive Officers Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 5, 2020. Dr. Min H. Kao , age 71, has served as Executive Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013 and was previously Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2004 to December 2012 and Co-Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to August 2004. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. from August 2002 to December 2012 and previously served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 to August 2002. Dr. Kao served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company from August 1990 until January 2013. Dr. Kao holds Ph.D. and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee and a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University. Clifton A. Pemble , age 54, has served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004. He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013. Previously, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. from October 2007 to December 2012. Previously, he was Vice President, Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2005 to October 2007, Director of Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2003 to 2005, Software Engineering Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 2002, and a Software Engineer with Garmin International, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Pemble has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since August 2003. Mr. Pemble holds BA degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from MidAmerica Nazarene University. 31 Douglas G. Boessen , age 57, has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since July 2014. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of EiKO Global, LLC from September 2013 to May 2014, as well as Collective Brands, Inc. from November 1997 to November 2012. Mr. Boessen has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since July 2014. Mr. Boessen is a certified public accountant and holds a BS degree in Business from the University of Central Missouri and is a graduate of the executive development program at Northwestern Universitys Kellogg Graduate School of Management. Andrew R. Etkind , age 64, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since June 2009. He was previously General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to June 2009. He has been Vice President and General Counsel of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2007, General Counsel since February 1998, and Secretary since October 1998. Mr. Etkind has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since December 2001. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and LLM degrees from Cambridge University, England and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. None of the executive officers have an employment agreement with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers. 32 PART II Item 5. Market for the Companys Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Garmins shares have traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC under the symbol GRMN since its initial public offering on December 8, 2000 (the IPO). As of February 14, 2020, there were 199 shareholders of record. The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $300 million of the Companys shares as market and business conditions warrant. The share repurchase authorization expired on December 31, 2017. The Company made no repurchases of shares during the years ended December 29, 2018 and December 28, 2019. See Note 11 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the share repurchase plan. We refer you to Item 12 of this report under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information for certain equity plan information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 33 The graph below matches Garmin Ltd.'s cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the Nasdaq Composite index and the Nasdaq 100 index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 31, 2014 (12/14) to December 31, 2019 (12/19) . 12/14 12/15 12/16 12/17 12/18 12/19 Garmin Ltd. 100.00 73.93 100.99 128.85 141.51 223.77 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 106.96 116.45 150.96 146.67 200.49 NASDAQ 100 100.00 109.75 117.73 156.58 156.63 218.44 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. 34 Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 and the selected consolidated statements of income data for the years ended December 28, 2019, December 29, 2018, and December 30, 2017 were derived from the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 30, 2017, December 31, 2016, and December 26, 2015 and the selected consolidated statements of income data for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 were derived from the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements, not included herein. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations and should be read together with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and notes to those statements included in Items 7 and 8 in Part II of this Form 10-K. The Company adopted the new accounting standard for revenue recognition, as discussed in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, effective beginning with the Companys first quarter of 2018. Adoption of the new revenue recognition standard was applied using the full retrospective method, and information for prior periods within Items 6 and 7 in Part II of this Form 10-K have been restated accordingly. In the table presented below, the selected consolidated statements of income and selected balance sheet data for the years ended December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016 and the selected balance sheet data for the year ended December 26, 2015 have been restated in accordance with the Companys adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. 35 Years ended (1) Dec. 28, 2019 Dec. 29, 2018 Dec. 30, 2017 Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 26, 2015 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 3,757,505 $ 3,347,444 $ 3,121,560 $ 3,045,797 $ 2,820,270 Gross profit 2,233,976 1,979,719 1,797,941 1,688,525 1,538,704 Operating income 945,586 778,343 683,637 632,864 549,581 Net income (2) 952,486 694,080 709,007 517,724 456,227 Net income per share: Diluted $ 4.99 $ 3.66 $ 3.76 $ 2.73 $ 2.39 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Diluted 190,899 189,734 188,732 189,343 191,107 Dividends declared per share (3) $ 2.28 $ 2.12 $ 2.04 $ 2.04 $ 2.04 Balance Sheet Data (at end of Period): Cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities $ 2,609,505 $ 2,714,844 $ 2,313,208 $ 2,327,120 $ 2,391,618 Total assets 6,166,799 5,382,858 4,948,289 4,484,549 4,478,529 Total debt Total stockholders equity 4,793,496 4,162,974 3,852,419 3,453,259 3,373,734 (1) Our fiscal year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not always fall on December 31. All years presented contain 52 weeks excluding fiscal 2016 which includes 53 weeks. (2) The following significant items are included in the Net income line that may affect comparability: In 2019, a $118.0 million income tax benefit was recognized resulting from the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets as a result of the enactment of Switzerland federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform and related transitional measures; In 2017, a $180.0 million income tax benefit was recognized, primarily related to the revaluation of certain Switzerland deferred tax assets resulting from the Company's election to align Switzerland corporate tax positions with global tax initiatives, partially offset by $22.6 million of income tax expense due to the expiration of certain share-based awards. (3) Dividends declared per share refers to the cash dividend per share that has been approved by shareholders in the given fiscal year. See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Dividends for additional detail. 36 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited Consolidated Financial Statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. This section provides discussion and a year-to-year comparison for the fiscal years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018. Discussion regarding our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2017 and a year-to-year comparison between the fiscal years ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 can be found in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmins fiscal year is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017 contained 52 weeks. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Companys fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we," "us," "our" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview We are a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five reportable segments, which serve the auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor markets. Our auto reportable segment is comprised of two operating segments; auto PND and auto OEM. Each operating segment offers products through our network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors, as well as through OEMs. Each of the operating segments is managed separately. Since our first products were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive income from operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 37 Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units in proportion to the expected benefit from each business combination. Each of the Companys operating segments (auto PND, auto OEM, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor) represents a distinct reporting unit. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the operating performance indicators, competition, or expectations about future market or economic conditions. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires significant judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires significant assumptions, including discount rate, projected future revenues, projected future operating margins, and terminal growth rates. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Unrecognized Income Tax Benefits We recognize liabilities associated with uncertain income tax positions, including those related to transfer pricing, based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. We recognize the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be not required or it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Assessing uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment, including the evaluation of unique facts and circumstances and the interpretation of laws and regulations, especially the assessment of pricing analyses that may produce various ranges of outcomes. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Other For further information on the Companys critical accounting policies, refer to the discussion in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as indicated in the table below: Intangible Assets Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Income Taxes Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 6 - Income Taxes Revenue Recognition Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 13 - Revenue Product Warranty Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Legal and Other Contingencies Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 4 - Commitments and Contingencies Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our retail partners, dealer and distributor network and to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive, and we typically ship most orders within 72 hours. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. 38 Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and in the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Our auto OEM and aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of auto program manufacturing, aircraft certifications , regulatory mandates, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Sales/Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower cost components. We believe that our flexible production model allows our Xizhi, Jhongli, and LinKou manufacturing plants in Taiwan; Yangzhou manufacturing plant in China; our Wassenaar manufacturing plant in the Netherlands; and our Olathe, Kansas, and Salem, Oregon manufacturing plants in the U.S. to experience relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan and China than in Olathe and Salem. Sales price variability has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. Our gross profit is dependent on segment mix, and to a lesser extent, product mix within each segment. Advertising Expense Our advertising expenses consist primarily of costs for media advertising, cooperative advertising with our retail partners, point of sale displays, and sponsorships. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: salaries for sales, marketing and product support personnel; salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; marketing, and other brand building costs; finance and legal costs; human resource costs; information systems and infrastructure costs; travel and related costs; and occupancy and other overhead costs. Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent salaries for our engineers and costs of test equipment and components used in product and prototype development. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new markets for active lifestyle products. Income Taxes We have experienced a relatively low effective income tax rate due to the proportion of our income generated by entities in tax jurisdictions with low statutory rates. 39 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 December 30, 2017 Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of goods sold 41 % 41 % 42 % Gross profit 59 % 59 % 58 % Operating expenses: Advertising 4 % 5 % 5 % Selling, general and administrative 14 % 14 % 14 % Research and development 16 % 17 % 16 % Total operating expenses 34 % 36 % 36 % Operating income 25 % 23 % 22 % Other income (expense), net 1 % 1 % 0 % Income before income taxes 26 % 25 % 22 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes 1 % 4 % (0 )% Net income 25 % 21 % 23 % The following table sets forth our results of operations through operating income for each of our five segments during the period shown. The Companys CODM uses operating income as the measure of profit or loss, combined with other measures, to assess segment performance and allocate resources. Operating income represents net sales less costs of goods sold and operating expenses. Net sales are directly attributed to each segment. Most costs of goods sold and the majority of operating expenses are also directly attributed to each segment, while certain other costs of goods sold and operating expenses are allocated to the segments in a manner appropriate to the specific facts and circumstances of the expenses being allocated. For each line item in the table, the total of the segments amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income data included in Item 6. As indicated in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the methodology used to allocate certain selling, general, and administrative expenses was refined at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The amounts presented below for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 and December 30, 2017 are presented here as they were originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate operating income for the 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 would have been approximately $18 million less for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million more for the marine segment, approximately $7 million more for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the auto and fitness segments. We estimate operating income for the 52-weeks ended December 30, 2017 would have been approximately $14 million less for the aviation segment, approximately $8 million less for the fitness segment, approximately $8 million more for the marine segment, and approximately $7 million more for each of the outdoor and auto segments. 40 52-weeks ended December 28, 2019 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Auto Marine Net sales $ 1,047,527 $ 917,567 $ 735,458 $ 548,103 $ 508,850 Cost of goods sold 514,923 319,124 192,073 291,508 205,901 Gross profit 532,604 598,443 543,385 256,595 302,949 Advertising expense 71,772 52,171 5,667 14,435 20,411 Selling, general and administrative expenses 159,793 124,650 65,663 78,110 90,352 Research and development expense 109,181 87,581 219,112 107,182 82,310 Total operating expenses 340,746 264,402 290,442 199,727 193,073 Operating income $ 191,858 $ 334,041 $ 252,943 $ 56,868 $ 109,876 52-weeks ended December 29, 2018 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Auto Marine Net sales $ 858,329 $ 809,883 $ 603,459 $ 634,213 $ 441,560 Cost of goods sold 386,565 281,629 153,307 363,420 182,804 Gross profit 471,764 528,254 450,152 270,793 258,756 Advertising expense 64,707 46,041 7,207 19,155 18,284 Selling, general and administrative expenses 135,096 120,588 36,139 88,672 97,682 Research and development expense 90,216 71,115 202,060 124,968 79,446 Total operating expenses 290,019 237,744 245,406 232,795 195,412 Operating income $ 181,745 $ 290,510 $ 204,746 $ 37,998 $ 63,344 52-weeks ended December 30, 2017 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Auto Marine Net sales $ 762,194 $ 698,867 $ 501,359 $ 785,139 $ 374,001 Cost of goods sold 339,558 250,457 129,754 442,441 161,409 Gross profit 422,636 448,410 371,605 342,698 212,592 Advertising expense 75,660 41,113 6,180 25,639 16,101 Selling, general and administrative expenses 119,537 98,914 27,766 107,995 83,765 Research and development expense 80,674 58,516 183,726 126,320 62,398 Total operating expenses 275,871 198,543 217,672 259,954 162,264 Operating income $ 146,765 $ 249,867 $ 153,933 $ 82,744 $ 50,328 Net Sales Net Sales 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 1,047,527 22 % $ 858,329 13 % $ 762,194 Percentage of Total Net Sales 28 % 26 % 24 % Outdoor 917,567 13 % 809,883 16 % 698,867 Percentage of Total Net Sales 24 % 24 % 22 % Aviation 735,458 22 % 603,459 20 % 501,359 Percentage of Total Net Sales 20 % 18 % 16 % Auto 548,103 (14 %) 634,213 (19 %) 785,139 Percentage of Total Net Sales 15 % 19 % 25 % Marine 508,850 15 % 441,560 18 % 374,001 Percentage of Total Net Sales 13 % 13 % 12 % Total $ 3,757,505 12 % $ 3,347,444 7 % $ 3,121,560 41 Net sales increased 12% in 2019 when compared to the year-ago period. All segments had an increase in revenue except for auto. Fitness revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix in 2019 at 28% compared to 26% in 2018. Total unit sales increased 5% to 15.6 million units in 2019 from 14.9 million units in 2018. Fitness, outdoor, aviation, and marine revenues increased 22%, 13%, 22%, and 15%, respectively when compared to the year-ago period. The fitness segment revenue increase was primarily driven by strong sales in wearables and sales from Tacx, a newly acquired group of subsidiaries that designs and manufactures indoor bike trainers. The outdoor segment revenue increase was driven by sales growth in multiple product categories, primarily led by adventure watches. Aviation segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth in both aftermarket and OEM categories. Marine segment revenue increases were driven by sales growth across multiple product categories, primarily chartplotters and SONAR products. Auto segment revenue decreased 14% from the year-ago period, due to the ongoing auto PND market contraction and lower auto OEM program sales. Gross Profit Gross Profit 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 532,604 13 % $ 471,764 12 % $ 422,636 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 51 % 55 % 55 % Outdoor 598,443 13 % 528,254 18 % 448,410 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 65 % 65 % 64 % Aviation 543,385 21 % 450,152 21 % 371,605 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 74 % 75 % 74 % Auto 256,595 (5 %) 270,793 (21 %) 342,698 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 47 % 43 % 44 % Marine 302,949 17 % 258,756 22 % 212,592 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 60 % 59 % 57 % Total $ 2,233,976 13 % $ 1,979,719 10 % $ 1,797,941 Percentage of Total Net Sales 59 % 59 % 58 % Gross profit dollars in fiscal year 2019 increased 13% while gross margin was slightly higher compared to fiscal year 2018. Gross margin increased 410 basis points in the auto segment when compared to the prior year, primarily attributable to lower license expense. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the outdoor, marine, and aviation segments. Gross margin decreased in the fitness segment primarily due to lower average selling prices and product mix. Advertising Expenses Advertising 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 71,772 11 % $ 64,707 (14 %) $ 75,660 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 7 % 8 % 10 % Outdoor 52,171 13 % 46,041 12 % 41,113 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 6 % 6 % 6 % Aviation 5,667 (21 %) 7,207 17 % 6,180 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 1 % 1 % 1 % Auto 14,435 (25 %) 19,155 (25 %) 25,639 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 3 % 3 % 3 % Marine 20,411 12 % 18,284 14 % 16,101 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 4 % 4 % 4 % Total $ 164,456 6 % $ 155,394 (6 %) $ 164,693 Percentage of Total Net Sales 4 % 5 % 5 % Advertising expense increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018. The overall increase in absolute dollars was primarily attributable to increased cooperative advertising in the outdoor, fitness, and marine segments and increased media advertising in the outdoor and fitness segments. These increases were partially offset by decreased cooperative advertising expense in the auto and aviation segments. All segments were relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the prior year. 42 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, General & Admin. Expenses 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 159,793 18 % $ 135,096 13 % $ 119,537 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 15 % 16 % 16 % Outdoor 124,650 3 % 120,588 22 % 98,914 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 15 % 14 % Aviation 65,663 82 % 36,139 30 % 27,766 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 9 % 6 % 6 % Auto 78,110 (12 %) 88,672 (18 %) 107,995 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 14 % 14 % 14 % Marine 90,352 (8 %) 97,682 17 % 83,765 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 18 % 22 % 22 % Total $ 518,568 8 % $ 478,177 9 % $ 437,977 Percentage of Total Net Sales 14 % 14 % 14 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the prior year. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to personnel costs, legal related costs, and expenses from recent acquisitions. As noted above and in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company refined its methodology to allocate certain selling, general and administrative expenses at the beginning of the 2019 fiscal year. The prior year amounts are presented here as originally reported. For comparative purposes, we estimate selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal year 2018 would have been approximately $18 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $11 million less for the marine segment, approximately $7 million less for the outdoor segment, and not significantly different for the fitness and auto segments. We estimate the selling, general and administrative expense for fiscal 2017 would have been approximately $14 million more for the aviation segment, approximately $8 million more for the fitness segment, approximately $8 million less for the marine segment, and approximately $7 million less for each of the outdoor and auto segments. In addition to the change in methodology of allocating certain selling, general and administrative expenses noted above, marine decreased in fiscal 2019, as a percent of revenue, from the previous year due to greater leverage of operating costs. Research and Development Expense Research & Development 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 109,181 21 % $ 90,216 12 % $ 80,674 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 10 % 11 % 11 % Outdoor 87,581 23 % 71,115 22 % 58,516 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 10 % 9 % 8 % Aviation 219,112 8 % 202,060 10 % 183,726 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 30 % 33 % 37 % Auto 107,182 (14 %) 124,968 (1 %) 126,320 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 20 % 20 % 16 % Marine 82,310 4 % 79,446 27 % 62,398 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 16 % 18 % 17 % Total $ 605,366 7 % $ 567,805 11 % $ 511,634 Percentage of Total Net Sales 16 % 17 % 16 % Research and development expense increased 7% in absolute dollars when compared to the year-ago period and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to engineering personnel costs related to our wearable and aviation product offerings and expenses resulting from recent acquisitions, partially offset by the capitalization of certain contractually reimbursable preproduction design and development personnel costs within the auto segment. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. 43 Operating Income Operating Income 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Fitness $ 191,858 6 % $ 181,745 24 % $ 146,765 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 18 % 21 % 19 % Outdoor 334,041 15 % 290,510 16 % 249,867 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 36 % 36 % 36 % Aviation 252,943 24 % 204,746 33 % 153,933 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 34 % 34 % 31 % Auto 56,868 50 % 37,998 -54 % 82,744 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 10 % 6 % 11 % Marine 109,876 73 % 63,344 26 % 50,328 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 22 % 14 % 13 % Total $ 945,586 21 % $ 778,343 14 % $ 683,637 Percentage of Total Net Sales 25 % 23 % 22 % Total operating income increased 21% in absolute dollars and increased 190 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to fiscal year 2018. The growth in total operating income on an absolute dollar basis and as a percent of revenue was the result of revenue growth, slightly higher gross margin, and greater leverage of operating expenses, as discussed above. Other Income (Expense) Other Income (Expense) 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 52-Weeks Ended December 29, 2018 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2017 Interest income $ 52,817 $ 47,147 $ 36,925 Foreign currency (losses) (16,799 ) (7,616 ) (22,579 ) Other income (expense) 5,618 5,373 (912 ) Total $ 41,636 $ 44,904 $ 13,434 The average returns on cash and investments, including interest and capital gain/loss returns during the 52-weeks ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 were 2.0% and 1.8%, respectively. Interest income increased primarily due to slightly higher yields on fixed-income securities. Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Companys consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. The $16.8 million currency loss recognized in fiscal 2019 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro and weakening against the Taiwan Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening against the British Pound Sterling. During fiscal 2019, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 2.3% against the Euro and weakened 1.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in losses of $9.3 million and $7.1 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar weakened 2.9% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in a gain of $2.8 million. The remaining net currency loss of $3.2 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. The $7.6 million currency loss recognized in fiscal 2018 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar. During fiscal 2018, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.7% against the Euro and 6.0% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $10.0 million and $1.7 million, respectively, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 3.0% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $15.1 million. The remaining net currency loss of $11.0 million was related to the timing of transactions and impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 44 Income Tax Provision Income tax expense for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2019 was $34.7 million compared to income tax expense of $129.2 million for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2018, representing a net decrease of $94.5 million. Contributing to the decrease in income tax expense was an income tax benefit of $118.0 million associated with the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets as a result of the October 2019 enactment of Switzerland federal and Schaffhausen cantonal tax reform and related transitional measures. In connection with these transitional measures included in Switzerland tax reform, a reduced income tax rate will be utilized on certain Switzerland taxable income for up to five years. In February 2020, the Company initiated a transaction between wholly-owned subsidiaries to migrate ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, the primary location of research, development, and executive management. The migration, which includes a multi-year intercompany license of intellectual property, is expected to result in a favorable shift of income mix by jurisdiction and a reduction in expense related to uncertain tax positions. During the term of the license agreement, this transaction is expected to decrease the Companys effective income tax rate as compared to the fiscal year 2019 effective income tax rate excluding the $118.0 million income tax benefit associated with the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets, as described above. The Company plans to pursue an Advance Pricing Agreement between relevant jurisdictions related to this transaction. At the end of the license agreement, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the United States. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above, income before taxes increased 20% to $987.2 million from $823.2 million in the prior year, while net income increased 37% to $952.5 million from $694.1 million in the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 28, 2019, we had approximately $2.6 billion of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our short- and long-term projected working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements. It is managements goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Companys Board of Directors. The investment policys primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmins average interest income returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2019, 2018, and 2017 were approximately 2.0%, 1.9%, and 1.6%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. Operating Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 December 30, 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 698,549 $ 919,520 $ 660,842 The $221.0 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to a decrease of cash provided by working capital of $303.1 million (which included a decrease of $130.7 million in net collections of accounts receivable associated primarily with strong fourth quarter sales, a net increase of $112.4 million in cash paid for inventory associated primarily with the Companys strategy to increase days of supply to support our increasingly diversified product lines, and a net increase of $60.0 million in cash used in other activities primarily driven by payments associated with an amendment to a license agreement) and income taxes payable of $69.4 million. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in net income of $258.4 million, reduced by other non-cash adjustments to net income of $106.9 million, which included an income tax benefit of $118.0 million associated with the revaluation and step-up of certain Switzerland tax assets. 45 Investing Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 December 30, 2017 Net cash used in investing activities $ (450,746 ) $ (307,503 ) $ (194,383 ) The $143.2 million increase in cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to increased net cash paid for acquisitions of $271.1 million, partially offset by a decrease in net purchases of marketable securities of $89.0 million and decreased cash payments for net purchases of property and equipment of $36.7 million. Financing Activities 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2019 December 29, 2018 December 30, 2017 Net cash used in financing activities $ (416,028 ) $ (286,161 ) $ (448,412 ) The $129.9 million increase in cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2019 compared to fiscal year 2018 was primarily due to an increase in dividend payments of $121.1 million associated with the timing of dividend payments that resulted in one more dividend payment in 2019 compared to 2018. Our declared dividend has increased from $0.51 per share for the twelve calendar quarters beginning in June 2016 to $0.57 per share for the four calendar quarters beginning June 2019. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments As of December 28, 2019, operating leases comprise the substance of the Companys commercial commitments with long-term scheduled payments, as summarized below: Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating Leases $ 97,319 $ 18,487 $ 30,240 $ 22,018 $ 26,574 The Company is party to certain other commitments, which include purchases of raw materials, capital expenditures, advertising, and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. The aggregate amount of purchase orders and other commitments open as of December 28, 2019 was approximately $586.3 million. We cannot determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations because purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are generally based on our current needs and are typically fulfilled within short periods of time. We may be required to make significant cash outlays related to unrecognized tax benefits. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits of $101.3 million as of December 28, 2019, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Income Taxes and Note 6 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 46