Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of managements assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Companys actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A Risk Factors. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. Except as may be required by law, the Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. 3 Part I Item 1. Business Company Overview For more than 35 years, Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries (collectively, we, our, us, the Company or Garmin) have pioneered new products, many of which feature location technology such as Global Positioning System (GPS), and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary markets: fitness, outdoor, aviation, marine, and auto OEM. We design, develop, manufacture, market, and distribute a diverse family of GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based and information products for these markets, as well as products installed by original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and for aftermarket applications. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 300 million products, which included more than18 million products delivered during fiscal 2024. Available Information Garmins annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmins directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmins website (www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmins website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our website are intended to be inactive textual references only. This discussion of Garmin should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Products Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general,Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and appealing design. Many of the Companys products utilize GPS and other global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) receivers to support product features such as navigation, global positioning, and tracking. GPS is a United States owned satellite network constellation that supports global positioning, timing, and navigation, providing precise geographic location and related data to both commercial and government GPS receivers. Access to and use of the GPS systems commercial signal bands is provided free of charge. In addition to GPS, Garmin products utilize other GNSS including the Russian Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the European Union Galileo system (Galileo), and the Chinese BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS). Garmin products also use satellite-based augmentation systems (SBAS) including the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), the Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), and the European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) for aviation Safety of Life (SoL) services. Garmin also uses localized satellite-based systems including the Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS) and the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS), with an operational name of NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation). On a subscription basis, certain Garmin products offer access to private satellite networks such as the Iridium satellite network, a synchronized constellation of 66 low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites offering global data communication coverage. Iridiums satellite constellation offers global coverage to enable reliable satellite-based communication. 4 Fitness Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in health, wellness, and fitness activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Fitness segment to consumers around the world: Running and Multi-sport Watches: Garmin running and multi-sport watches are offered under the Forerunner product series. The Forerunner series offers GPS-enabled watches with features unique to each model. Depending on the model, features include wrist-based heart rate monitoring, wrist-based pulse oximeter, AMOLED displays, music storage capabilities, mapping capabilities, LTE Connectivity, solar charging, and Garmin Pay contactless payment. Cycling Products: Garmin cycling products include cycling computers (with solar charging on select models), power meters, bike radars, cameras, smart lights, and speed and cadence sensors. Additionally, Garmin offers Tacx indoor training equipment including smart and basic trainers, and a smart bike. Smartwatch Devices: Garmin offers a wide range of smartwatch devices. The Garmin product offerings include GPS-enabled smartwatches, fashion-forward hybrid smartwatches with analog style displays, and activity tracking fitness bands. The smartwatch devices offered by Garmin are the Venu series, vvoactive series, vvomove series, Lily series, vvosmart series, and Bounce series. Each series of smartwatch devices offered has unique features, all to enhance and promote healthy and active lifestyles. Features of the smartwatch devices, depending on the series and model, include wrist-based heart rate monitoring, AMOLED displays, ECG app, Garmin Pay, music storage capabilities, and 24/7 health monitoring. Scales and Monitors: Garmin offers a range of fitness accessories including chest strap heart rate monitors, smart scales, and blood pressure monitors. Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile: Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users can track and analyze their fitness, activities and workouts, and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups and group challenges, and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community. Connect IQ: The Connect IQ application development platform enables third parties to create a variety of applications that run on a wide assortment of Garmin devices. Connect IQ provides developers with an easy-to-use software development kit (SDK) to facilitate development efforts in creating watch faces, applications, widgets, and data fields. These third-party applications are available for download by Garmin users via their mobile phone or computer and run on their compatible Garmin wearable, bike computer, golf, or outdoor handheld devices. Outdoor Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Outdoor segment to consumers around the world: Adventure Watches: Garmin adventure watches offer a wide range of features, including wrist-based biometrics, sports apps, solar charging, music storage capabilities, preloaded full-color purpose-built adventure mapping of topography, ski resorts, and golf courses, built-in LED flashlights, speakers, microphones, and Garmin Pay, depending on the model. The fnix series is for active lifestyle users seeking a premium smartwatch experience. The Instinct series offers features for users seeking a rugged and reliable outdoor GPS smartwatch. The tactix series is for users looking for tactical-inspired features, such as night vision compatibility and stealth mode. The Enduro series is for users who want additional battery and solar charging enhancements to extend battery life. The MARQ series collection of watches is for users seeking a luxury smart tool watch with premium materials. 5 inReach and Garmin Response: Garmin offers several product lines that feature Garmins inReach capabilities. These devices include Iridiums global satellite communication technology which, when combined with an active service plan, offers two-way text messaging, photo and voice messaging, weather forecasts, and S.O.S. capabilities while anywhere in the world, depending on the model. These S.O.S. capabilities are supported 24/7 by Garmins professionally trained associates at Garmin Response, our global emergency response coordination center. Outdoor Handhelds and Satellite Communicators: Garmin offers devices under the Montana, eTrex, GPSMAP, and inReach product lines. Devices range from basic waypoints navigators to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, preloaded maps, wi-fi and smartphone connectivity, two-way satellite communication using InReach technology, solar charging, and other features. Golf Devices: Garmin golf devices are offered under the Approach product line. The Approach series includes watches, laser range finders, launch monitors, simulators, club sensors, and handhelds. Garmin maintains a comprehensive collection of over 43,000 golf course maps to provide useful information during real or simulated rounds. Wearable and handheld golf devices provide yardage distances to the front, back, and middle of the green. In addition to course maps, the Approach R50 portable launch monitor and simulator provides swing metrics utilizing three different cameras, which can track more than 15 ball and club metrics, including measured spin rate and spin axis, providing precision analytics for every club, as well as the ability to play a simulated round on the built-in 10-inch touchscreen. The Garmin Golf mobile app also offers scoring, shot tracking, and performance tracking features, in addition to the Home Tee Hero virtual round simulator for subscribers. Consumer Automotive: Garmin is a leading manufacturer of personal navigation devices (PNDs), integrated and standalone dash cams, and auto accessories that include specialized features dedicated to a wide variety of vehicle and driver needs. Both the Drive series of full-featured traditional PNDs and the Garmin Dash Cam series of GPS-enabled dash cams serve a wide range of consumers. The dzl ecosystem offers a broad range of products for professional truck drivers including headsets, electronic logging devices, and PNDs with over-the-road trucking features. The zmo series of PNDs is for users seeking motorcycle-specific features. The RV series of PNDs offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. Tread is a line of rugged, all-terrain navigators with mapping specific for off-road guidance for overlanding, off-roading, and Baja racing, as well as live team tracking through integrated inReach technology in certain models. The Garmin Catalyst is an industry-first racing coach and driving performance optimizer. Sportsman and Dog Devices: Garmin offers sportsman devices under the Xero product line, including the Xero C1 Pro Chronograph, which can measure projectile speeds from 100 to 5,000 feet per second. Garmin also offers a variety of dog tracking and training devices, including those under the Alpha, PRO, BarkLimiter, and Delta product lines. Dive Devices: Garmin offers the Descent dive computer watch series for users wanting diving functionality, including integrated air pressure monitoring, support for up to six gasses, and multiple dive modes. The Descent X50i large-format wearable dive computer provides additional functionality through a vibrant 3-inch touchscreen display. Garmin Descent transceivers allow users to monitor up to eight tanks when under water, viewing air pressure, depth, use rate and time remaining for multiple types of diving when paired with a compatible air-integrated Descent dive computer. Aviation Garmin designs, manufactures, and markets a wide range of innovative aircraft avionics solutions to the broad and diverse aviation sector. Avionics are sold directly into aircraft OEM applications as well as through Garmins worldwide dealer network for retrofit installations on existing aircraft. Garmin has developed innovative products and technologies serving general aviation, business aviation, rotorcraft, and experimental/light sport markets. Our solutions are available for all aircraft categories and classes; from small piston and electric-powered general aviation aircraft to large business jet aircraft, as well as a wide-ranging variety of helicopters, including those serving critical public service and oil/gas missions. 6 Garmin also provides highly differentiated products and service solutions to other growth markets such as commercial air-carrier, military and defense, electric aircraft, and the Advanced Air Mobility / eVTOL space. By offering products such as Commercial Off-The-Shelf (COTS) and mission-optimized solutions to military and defense contractors/customers, and products tested and optimized for high duty cycle commercial aviation operations, Garmin is emerging as a strong competitor in these business arenas. Garmin currently offers the following products, systems, and services to the global aviation market: Integrated Flight Decks:Known for defining the integrated flight deck (IFD) space in general aviation and light business aviation applications, Garmin recently introduced its third-generation IFD offering to OEMs and retrofit IFD applications. These solutions can be scaled for any size aircraft and rotorcraft, featuring communication and navigation, weather information, terrain and traffic awareness and avoidance, aircraft performance, and automated safety solutions. Electronic Flight Displays and Instrumentation: Garmin flight display and instrument solutions can serve as primary or back-up systems, which also provide a wealth of valuable information in the cockpit, dramatically increasing situational awareness and capability. Navigation and Communication Products: Garmin offers a wide range of integrated and stand-alone GPS navigation and very high frequency (VHF) radio communication products, with a variety of capabilities, available for all market segments. Automatic Flight Control Systems and Safety-Enhancing Technologies:Garmin offers scalable flight control systems with unique integrated safety features for aircraft and rotorcraft. Our Autopilots, and Autonom safety-enhancing solutions cover a wide spectrum of aircraft, from super mid-size cabin business jets and helicopters to light general aviation aircraft. Garmins award-winning Autoland system will autonomously land the aircraft in the event the pilot is not able to do so, and Smart Glide will assist a pilot to get to the nearest airport in the event of the loss of engine power. We also offer an innovative Smart Rudder Bias system that can help the pilot maintain control of a twin-engine aircraft in the event of an engine failure. Audio Control Systems:Garmin produces a broad array of cutting-edge audio systems, including panel-mount and remote-mounted units, incorporating features such as Bluetooth connectivity, voice command technology, and integrated intercoms. Engine Indication Systems:Garmin offers a variety of stand-alone and integrated advanced engine indication systems for piston and turbine-powered aircraft with comprehensive data-logging capabilities as well as wireless data offloading, cloud storage and analysis capability through our flyGarmin.com online services portal. Traffic Awareness and Avoidance Solutions:Garmin offers an array of traffic advisory and collision avoidance systems, including TAS and TCAS / ACAS solutions, with applications in all types of aircraft. ADS-B and Transponders:Garmin offers a full lineup of ADS-B and transponder solutions, including ADS-B Out compliant solutions as well as ADS-B In and Bluetooth capable units that allow pilots to connect to their mobile device to display ADS-B traffic and weather. Our ADS-B solutions also enable safety technologies like Runway Occupancy Awareness and CDTI-Assisted Visual Separation. Weather Information and Avoidance Solutions:Garmin offers multiple weather solutions, including onboard Doppler digital radar products, along with satellite-based SiriusXM, ground-based ADS-B, as well as Garmin Connext global satellite weather options. Datalink and Connectivity:Garmin datalink and connectivity solutions allow pilots to download global weather data, communication via text/voice, as well as select mobile apps to transfer flight plans, manage database subscriptions, perform automatic database updates, monitor aircraft systems in real time 24/7, and stream weather and traffic data from installed avionics solutions. 7 Portable GPS Navigators and Wearables:Garmin offers portable GPS navigators, smartwatches for pilots, satellite communicators, and portable traffic and weather solutions, providing pilots tools they can take with them from aircraft to aircraft. Services:Garmin offers a variety of services products to the aviation market. Web and mobile app-based products offered via FltPlan.com and our Garmin Pilot electronic flight bag application, help pilots plan, file, fly, and log flights and offer a wealth of information across all phases of flight. Business and commercial aviation customers also benefit from our FltPlan safety management system, and our AeroData solutions consisting of runway analysis and performance data, weight and balance, obstacle clearance, load planning, and navigation database products. Garmin continues to provide industry-leading product support, and offers a wide selection of databases, training products, extended warranties, and subscription services for all aviation segments. Marine Garmin is a leading manufacturer of recreational marine electronics and offers a broad range of products. Garmin currently offers the following product categories within the Marine segment to consumers around the world: Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs): Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP and ECHOMAP product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable and fix-mounted products to 27-inch fully integrated Glass Helm offerings with 4k resolution displays and include wireless connectivity to the ActiveCaptain mobile app. Cartography: Garmin is a leading supplier of cartography for the recreational marine market. Garmin Navionics Vision+ and Navionics Platinum+ charts are compatible with most major chartplotters and MFDs on the market. Major features include the patented Auto Guidance+ routing technology, satellite imagery, and 3D views. Fishfinders:Garmin offers an advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker series, which incorporates GPS technology enabling Garmin Quickdraw Contours, and wireless features through the ActiveCaptain and StrikerCast mobile apps. SONAR: Garmin offers the LiveScope sonar system producing high resolution, live sonar views showing the true action under water. LiveScope provides real-time, high-resolution images that can be seen in downward, perspective, and forward-looking views for locating the fish and seeing what is coming before you get there. The Panoptix line shows detailed 3D underwater views of fish and structure under your boat with real-time images up to 1,000 feet deep. Garmins CHIRP black-box sounders and CHIRP transducers interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the deep-water sounders and fishfinder functions in a remote mounted package. Autopilot Systems: Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as remote steering, speed control, and Garmins patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various types of steering systems. RADAR: Garmin offers high-tech solid state Fantom radar with MotionScope Doppler technology, lowering system power consumption and increasing reliability, while greatly improving situational awareness of the captain. Fantom radars are available in both radome and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. Garmin also offers a full line of magnetron radars with up to 25kW of transmit power. Instruments: Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays and sensors that show data from multiple remote sources on one screen. VHF Communication Radios: Garmin offers a full line-up of marine VHF radios and Automatic Identification System (AIS) transceivers with the latest feature sets including integrated GPS receivers 8 for the communication needs of all types of mariners. Garmin radios are NMEA 2000 compatible, offer multi-station support, and monitor all AIS channels. Handhelds and Wearable Devices: Garmin offers the quatix series wearable, GPS-enabled smartwatches designed for mariners, which include marine features for navigation, sailing, stereo control, autopilot functions, tidal information, a built-in LED flashlight, and solar charging, depending on model. Garmin also offers floating marine GPS handhelds with wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography. Some handhelds contain built-in inReach satellite communication and support Connect IQ applications. Sailing:Garmin has integrated many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These Garmin SailAssist features include enhanced wind rose with true and apparent wind data, POLAR tables, pre-race guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields. Audio:Garmins audio brands, Fusion and JL Audio, offer premium audio products and accessories, including head units, speakers, amplifiers, subwoofers, and other audio components. These products are designed specifically for the marine, powersports, aftermarket automotive, RV, and home environments, offering premium sound quality and supporting many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs, smartphones, and Garmin wearables. Digital Switching:Garmin offers digital switching products under the EmpirBus product line. The Garmin EmpirBus products provide power distribution and control solutions for marine and RV applications which enable advanced logic controls and automation to add smart electrical system features in a boat or RV. The system features fully customizable graphics and user interface that can be controlled through Garmins marine multi-function displays and RV OEM products. Trolling Motors:Garmin offers the Force Trolling Motor series, powerful, efficient trolling motors with built-in CHIRP and Ultra High-Definition ClearV and SideV sonar. The product line includes the Force Kraken with sizes from 48 to 90 shaft length and a smaller mounting footprint. The Force product line also connects wirelessly to Garmin chartplotters/MFDs to provide navigation, autopilot, and anchor lock integration. Lighting:Garmin is a premier supplier of above water and below water lighting for marine and RV markets under the Lumishore name. The Lumishore product lines include single color, dual color, and full RGB lighting opens in a variety of power levels and installation options. These high-performance products offer zone control, automation, including audio inputs and integrate with Garmins MFD/mobile app systems. Auto OEM Garmin has cultivated key relationships with leading automobile manufacturers to be the provider of a variety of hardware and software solutions for their vehicles. Garmin currently offers the following product categories to the global auto market: Domain Controllers: Garmin is a tier-one supplier of domain controllers, offering remote computing modules that control various systems throughout a vehicle including infotainment, instrumentation, key advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) functionality, and rear seat entertainment. Infotainment Units:Garmin is a tier-one supplier of infotainment solutions, with offerings including centralized control and integrated multi-display platforms for premium audio and multimedia, navigation, cameras, smartphone links, customized voice recognition and personal assistants, and rear-seat entertainment instrument clusters. Other: Garmin offers a collection of software, map database, camera, wearable, and other automotive solutions. 9 Sales and Marketing Garmins distribution strategy is to support a broad and diverse network of sales channels for our products while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Our products are sold through a variety of indirect distribution channels, including a large worldwide network of independent retailers, dealers, distributors, installation and repair shops, and OEMs. We also sell our products and services directly through our online webshop (garmin.com), subscriptions for connected services, and our own retail stores. During 2024, the Companys net sales through its direct distribution channels accounted for greater than 10% of total net sales. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmins offices around the world. Competition We operate in highly competitive markets, though competitive conditions vary among our diverse target markets and geographies. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Apple, Bryton, Coros, Elite, Fitbit (Google), Huawei, Oura, Polar, Samsung, SRAM, Suunto, Wahoo Fitness, Whoop, Xiaomi, Zepp Health, and Zwift. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Apple, Casio, Coros, Dogtra, Globalstar, Infinition, Rand McNally, Samsung, Shearwater Research, SportDOG, Suunto, TAG Heuer, Tissot, TomTom, Trackman, Uneekor, Vista Outdoor, and Zoleo. Garmin considers its principal avionics competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne, Dynon Avionics, ForeFlight / Jeppesen (Boeing), Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell Aerospace & Defense, Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., Collins Aerospace (Raytheon), Safran, Thales, and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno, Johnson Outdoors, Navico (Brunswick), and Raymarine (Teledyne). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for auto OEM infotainment solutions are Alpine Electronics, Aptiv, Bosch, Continental, Harman (Samsung), Panasonic, and Visteon. Research and Development Garmins product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmins engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmins products are created by its engineering and development staff. Garmins manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmins development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers, and cartographic engineers. Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes one of its core technology competencies is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its facilities in Taiwan, the U.S., the Netherlands, Poland, and China. Garmin believes that operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets. Specifically, Garmin believes that the vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality, and time to market. Cost: Garmins manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency and resulting in lower cost. Garmins vertical integration approach enables leveraging of manufacturing resources across high, mid, and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across product lines favorably affects Garmins costs to produce its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of higher volume products. The ownership and integration of its resources allowsGarmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of its products, yielding improved cost. 10 Quality: Garmins automation and advanced production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enable Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is shared with the development teams, providing integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain. Garmins design, manufacturing, distribution, and service functions in its U.S., Taiwan, China, Netherlands, and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Garmins automotive operations in Taiwan, China, Poland, and Olathe have achieved IATF 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmins Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon aviation operations in the U.S. have achieved certification to AS9100, a quality standard for the aviation industry. Garmin has also implemented multiple health and safety management systems and achieved certification to the ISO 45001 standard for Health and Safety Management at facilities in the U.S., Taiwan, Poland, and China. Time to Market: Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products, allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable faster time to market. Materials Garmin purchases components from a large number of qualified suppliers. Although many components essential to Garmins business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. For these components, we have limited near-term flexibility to use other suppliers if a current vendor becomes unavailable or is unable to meet our requirements. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to meet customer demand due to component shortages or increased lead times, or cause us to incur higher product costs. However, we mitigate this risk by holding safety stock, and we believe these potential disruptions would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors due to our vertical integration strategy, which provides opportunities to quickly deploy new product designs. Seasonality Our net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally highest in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and many marine products experience increased demand in the first and second quarters in advance of the summer boating season. Sales of our consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation and auto OEM products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, auto program manufacturing, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business. As of December 28, 2024, Garmin has been issued over 1,970 patents throughout the world and holds more than 1,190 trademark registrations. The duration of patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmins rights in its proprietary technologies. 11 There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents that we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Environmental Matters Garmin has a global environmental policy and is committed to protecting the environment throughout various aspects of our business. Garmin has implemented multiple environmental management systems and achieved certification to the ISO 14001 standard for Environmental Management at facilities in the U.S., U.K., Taiwan, Poland, and China. Garmin strives to reduce our environmental impact by increasing our environmental sustainability efforts. Garmin is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions through direct carbon emissions reduction and elimination strategies. Garmin utilizes renewable electricity where it is available to us under reasonable terms and conditions, including at our facilities in Olathe, Kansas. Garmin also continuously works to reduce waste and increase recycling and composting. Garmins operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes. Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget. Historically, capital expenditures associated with environmental controls have not been material and compliance with environmental laws has not had a material impact on the Companys competitive position. Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency. Garmin is also subject to extended producer responsibility laws and regulations requiring manufacturers to be responsible for collection, recovery, and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Historically, compliance with environmental laws has not had a material impact on our profitability. We have processes to monitor environmental law changes and to evaluate the potential impact of such laws to our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial. Human Capital Successful execution of our strategy is dependent on attracting, developing, and retaining key employees and members of our management team. To facilitate talent attraction and retention, we provide opportunities for our employees to grow and develop in their careers, supported by generous compensation and benefits, and through programs that build connections between our employees and their communities. As of December 28, 2024, the Company had approximately 21,800 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom approximately 7,700 were in the Americas region, 11,100 were in APAC (Asia Pacific and Australian Continent), and 3,000 were in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa). Garmins vertical integration model enables us to provide a variety of opportunities across many different professions including engineering, human resources, information technology, marketing, sales, and operations. The Companys products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered approximately 6,000 people worldwide as of December 28, 2024. Garmins manufacturing staff, which numbered approximately 10,100 people worldwide as of December 28, 2024, includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmin respects the right of all employees to form and join an association to represent their interests as employees, to organize, and to bargain collectively or individually. We also respect any employees choice to refrain from joining a union. Except for some of Garmins employees in Sweden, none of Garmins employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our efforts in managing our workforce have been effective, as evidenced by a strong company culture and positive relations between the Company and our employees. 12 We offer a range of generous benefits programs to our employees that enable us to attract and retain leading talent. In addition to salaries, these programs (which vary by country/region) include stock compensation, savings plans, healthcare and insurance benefits, health savings and flexible spending accounts, paid time off, family leave, and an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which provides employees an opportunity to acquire company ownership for a discounted price. We also invest significant resources in our talent development programs to provide employees with the training and education they need to help achieve their career goals, build relevant skills, and lead their organizations. Business Resource Groups provide opportunities for employees to connect, network, and become involved in community engagement initiatives. We support local community engagement initiatives where we have a business presence, and we provide opportunities for employees to give back to those communities. One such initiative is through active engagement in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) community outreach programs. Our strategic aim in these educational programs is to educate and encourage local students of all backgrounds to pursue careers in the engineering field. Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Business Risks If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, overall demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits are not entirely offset. A significant portion of our revenue has been, and we expect in the future will continue to be, derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulations and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards, regulatory requirements or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, supply chain constraints, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, the associated loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for many of our products and services are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors have been able to replicate certain features offered by some of our products and services or respond more rapidly to emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. In addition, some of our original equipment manufacturer (OEM) customers may develop in-house equipment and components that they currently purchase from us. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Our principal manufacturing facilities for consumer products are located in Taiwan. The Peoples Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands, and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations exist between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. There is also a risk that the PRC government may unilaterally seek to occupy Taiwan, by force if necessary, without a clear triggering event. In this scenario, Garmins manufacturing facilities and suppliers based in Taiwan could be subject to disruptions that could have a material negative impact to our operations. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. China's relations with Taiwan may also be influenced by changes in relations between the U.S. and China. Deviations from the "one-China" policy or other conflicts or disputes could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations and suppliers based in Taiwan, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. We have made and expect to continue making significant investments in the auto OEM segment, the associated cost of which may negatively impact total company profits if auto OEM segment revenue significantly declines. We have been awarded several tier-one and tier-two auto OEM supplier contracts. To fulfill the associated program commitments, we have invested significantly in facilities, research and development, and other operating expenses and expect to continue doing so. Operating margins associated with these auto OEM programs will negatively impact consolidated operating margin as auto OEM revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue. If we are not successful in winning additional contracts, substantially leveraging our past and future investments, and implementing and maintaining efficient manufacturing processes, the auto OEM segments contributions to total company profits may be negatively impacted. We may incur substantial restructuring costs if we are unable to generate profits from auto OEM contracts. We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for technology and components used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers or licensors are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The availability of high-quality components at reasonable cost is essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. 14 We have experienced and may in the future experience shortages of certain components as well as delays in procuring certain components. In addition, a shortage in supply of components may result in an increase of the costs of procuring these components. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis or if we are unable to obtain components from an alternative source, or if the price of alternative components is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. Our products are also dependent on certain licensed technology and content. If we are unable to continue sourcing such technology and content from our licensors and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if our relationships with our licensors change detrimentally, our ability to provide certain features in our products would be seriously harmed. Our business and reputation have been and are expected to continue to be impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions. The Company and its global supply chain have experienced and are expected to continue to be exposed to information technology system failures and network disruptions including those caused by natural disasters, human error, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents. We have technology and processes in place designed to detect and respond to such failures and disruptions. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, and the nature of other potential incidents change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, our detection and response measures may be ineffective or inadequate. Furthermore, even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors and omissions may still occur resulting in system failures and/or disruptions to our information technology infrastructure. Therefore, the Companys business continuity and disaster recovery planning, or those of others in our global supply chain, may not be able to sufficiently mitigate all threats. Such failures or disruptions can materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition through, among other things, a disruption of internal operations, including order processing, invoicing, and manufacturing and distribution of products, and a loss of functionality of critical systems and online services. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of proprietary or confidential information, including personal information, could result in significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. We have in the past experienced, and expect to continue to experience, malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems that seek to compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of proprietary and confidential information. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of others in our global supply chain could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, as well as our users or employees' personal information, which could compromise our competitive position, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Also, if we fail to reasonably maintain the security of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, or the personal information of our users or employees, we may be subject to private litigation, government investigations, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. 15 Our business would suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends significantly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, and administrative personnel. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position has been and is expected to continue to be difficult. The overall shortage in qualified workforce personnel has increased and in the future may continue to increase our compensation costs in order for us to retain such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and growth prospects will be harmed. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying certain severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. The demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast due to our increasingly diverse product portfolio, intensifying competition in the markets for our products, and the maturing of markets for some of our products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand have caused and could in the future cause the following challenges to our operations: If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we may not be able to adequately increase production to meet demand. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough, due to supply chain issues or other constraints, to meet unexpected demand. Additionally, rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components, higher freight costs associated with urgent distribution of the products, and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. Our products and services may be affected by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products and services, or those of our OEM customers in which our products are installed, could be affected by design and manufacturing defects. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in our products and services, and may have limited ability to respond to those impacting our OEM customers. Failure to do so can result, and in the past has resulted in recalls, product replacements or modifications, and may cause reputational harm, and significant warranty and other expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products malfunction or contain errors or defects, we could also be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of litigation or damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased warranty claims, and litigation. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or use competing products. Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change and associated requirements and pressures could affect our financial results. Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis, typhoons, floods, wildfires, or earthquakes, could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which could cause disruptions in our business operations, loss of inventory, or affect the sale of our products. Global climate change could also result in certain types of these natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. For descriptions and locations of our principal properties, see Item 2, Properties. These events could also have an impact on our suppliers and affect our supply chain or our customers and affect the demand for our products. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption or if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected. Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to related regulatory and legislative measures, requirements of our OEM customers or other strategic partners, and evolving societal pressures, including pressures to reduce the carbon footprint of the aviation and marine industries, which could negatively impact the market for our products. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. U.S. Congress, in addition to other regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, could pass further legislation to mandate greenhouse gas emission reduction, implement cap-and-trade programs, or promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Such measures could influence mobility and transportation trends, which could decrease the demand for certain of our products. If climate change has impacts on natural disasters, the regulatory environment, or societal pressures as discussed above, it could result in a change in demand for certain products in markets that we serve, including auto, aviation, and marine. If we fail to adjust our product and service offerings to respond to new opportunities driven by changes in regulation and/or consumer preferences, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. Our large customers may also seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs or other measures, which could have a negative impact on our gross margin. Additionally, the loss of any large customer could adversely affect our sales and profits. See Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on concentration of credit risk. 17 We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, evaluate, complete, and integrate such transactions. We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. Due diligence performed prior to closing acquisitions may not uncover certain risks or liabilities that could materially impact our business and financial results. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate business, operational, and financial activities such as internal controls, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 compliance, cyber security measures, the GDPR and other corporate governance and regulatory matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other satellite systems. The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. GPS satellites have a limited lifespan and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. The U.S. Space Force and Missile Systems Center continue to launch new satellites to replace retired and aged satellites. Despite ongoing efforts to repair, maintain and replace non-operational satellites, if a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of GPS and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. Furthermore, as GPS satellites and ground control segment facilities are being modernized, software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is currently committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and commercial access to GPS was no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees or other restrictions were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Products and services that rely on the Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) are vulnerable to external interference, such as jamming and spoofing. Jamming is a deliberate disruption of signals, which prevents a device from determining its location, while spoofing involves transmitting signals that mislead a receiver with a false location. Although jamming and spoofing equipment are typically used in military campaigns, such equipment available commercially can also result in jamming and spoofing. While there are regulations that prohibit the use of jamming and spoofing equipment, if GNSS signals used by our products are disrupted or manipulated it could limit or compromise the location-based features of our products. 18 Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Some products also use regional satellite systems like the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS), operating as NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) and Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. Some of our products also use satellite signals from Russias GLONASS, the European Union Galileo system, and the Chinese BDS. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-U.S. GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue. Some of our products and services also operate using satellite communications systems operated by third parties, such as Iridium Communications Inc. and its subsidiaries. Any disruption to these satellite communications systems or extended periods of reduced service by these systems could result in lost customers or revenue. If Garmin is unable to maintain contracts with the third parties that operate these satellite communications systems, the communications features of the products and services that leverage these systems would no longer function. We are dependent on the availability and unimpaired use of allocated bands within the radio frequency spectrum; our products may be subject to harmful interference from new or modified spectrum uses. Our Global Positioning System (GPS) technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Governments GPS satellites. GPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Our radar altimeter products for aircraft operate in a radio frequency band just above the C-band that has been allocated for 5G mobile wireless systems. There is a risk that 5G telecommunication systems operating in the vicinity of airports could cause harmful interference to radar altimeters resulting in inaccurate altimeter readings or complete altimeter failure. This or any other ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and could have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. Macroeconomic and Industry Risks Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of these devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. We have experienced periods of annual growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. However, we have also experienced periods of declines in sales and profits in these segments. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. 19 Public health emergencies, including epidemics or pandemics, could have significant impacts on our business. Widespread public health emergencies, including epidemics or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have significantly affected, and may in the future significantly affect, our business due to their impact on the economy and the demand for our products and services, disruptions to our operations, supply chain and sales and distribution channels, and government-imposed restrictions. Additional risks, including gross margin fluctuation, foreign currency fluctuations, product development challenges, impacts to our key personnel, and dependencies on third party suppliers, may be heightened as a result of a widespread public health emergency. If we were unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Economic and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. We have operations outside the United States that make up a significant portion of our total revenue, which can present challenges depending on economic and geopolitical conditions on both a global and regional scale. Adverse economic conditions, including higher interest rates, inflation, higher fuel prices, higher unemployment, or recession, could adversely affect demand for the Company's products and services. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has in the past resulted in periods of decreased revenue, and could in the future result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. Geopolitical instability, acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. A shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, tariffs, or duties, could significantly harm our results of operations. Restrictions on international trade, such as sanctions, tariffs, duties and other governmental controls on imports or exports of goods, could adversely affect our business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and the PRC have led to a series of tariffs being imposed by the U.S. on imports from the PRC. Many other countries have considered or imposed similar measures. Certain of our products are subject to tariffs and duties imposed by customs authorities of the countries in which they are imported. Those tariffs and duties are based on the classifications of those products, which are routinely subject to review by the customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether those authorities will change the determination of the classifications of any of our products. Any such changes could result in additional tariffs, duties, or other restrictions on the importation of our products. The U.S. and other countries may announce new or changed restrictions with little advance notice, which can create uncertainty and result in other countries implementing retaliatory restrictions. The imposition of new or enhanced sanctions, tariffs or duties, or any selective or inconsistent application relating to any new or enhanced sanctions, tariffs or duties, could have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 20 Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company. Our tax positions could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, tax regulations, or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns, particularly in the U.S., Switzerland, Taiwan, and United Kingdom (U.K.). We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Additionally, the determination of our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment and often involves uncertainty. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, most notably in the area of transfer pricing. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation or the ultimate tax outcome could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on the Companys future income tax provision, net income. Global taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations, including the establishment of a global minimum tax rate of 15%. Many countries in which Garmin operates have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, global minimum tax legislation. The implementation of global minimum tax and certain other tax legislation could have a material adverse impact on the Companys future income tax provision, net income, or cash flows. Partially to respond to changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction in 2020 which migrates ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the company's primary location for research, development and executive management. At the end of this migration, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the U.S. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we have obtained advanced pricing agreements with the relevant jurisdictions. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups have purchased and may in future purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we receive communications alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming and at the present time cost-effective insurance is not available. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. 21 We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable or in which we otherwise incur a loss in excess of our reserves and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a business that operates worldwide, we are subject to complex and changing global laws and regulations, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, including those in the following areas: telecommunications; environmental, health and safety; labor and employment; intellectual property ownership and infringement; antitrust; data privacy and security; consumer protection; product liability; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls; antimoney laundering; and tax. Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive, increasing the cost of conducting our global operations. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable global laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that at all times we will be in compliance with all global regulations given their multitude, complexity and ever-changing nature. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a variety of United States and international laws, regulations and other legal obligations regarding data protection. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, including in the United States, have enacted or are considering enacting a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties, governmental investigations and regulatory proceedings, litigation, harm to our brand, and a decrease in the use of our products and services. Many of these laws provide for significant penalties. Under the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, for example, potential penalties can be as high as 4% of a companys total global revenue. Some of our products are subject to governmental regulation or certification. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis, either due to government shutdown or other delays in the certification process, could harm our business. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Additionally, if FAA operations are shut down or FAA employees are furloughed due to partial or complete government shutdowns or reduced FAA budgets, the required FAA certification of our avionics products and of the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products could be delayed. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 In addition, in accordance with FCC rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC in the United States and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial Risks Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The movement of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar affects the U.S. Dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar has had and may in the future have a significant adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin, and profitability, or may cause us to raise international pricing, which has reduced and may continue to reduce demand for certain of our products in certain countries. Conversely, a strengthening of certain foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar would increase product costs and operating expenses denominated in those currencies, which could materially adversely affect profitability. We have not historically used financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risks. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management expects to continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses. Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of other factors, including product mix, foreign exchange rates, tariffs, freight and component costs, manufacturing facility utilization, and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that products life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our shares could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development and information technology costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase operating expenses, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been lower in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. However, this can fluctuate based on the timing of new product launches. Sales of many of our consumer products have been highest in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season, and many marine products experience increased demand in the first and second quarters in advance of the summer boating season. Our aviation and auto OEM products do not experience much seasonal variation but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, auto program manufacturing, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. 23 Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Shares The volatility of our share price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2024, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $119.49 to a high of $220.77. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including but not limited to: new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in inflation, interest rates and global currency exchange rates; announcements of technological innovations; product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes and proposed changes in applicable tax laws, tax rates, tariffs and duties; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 23, 2025, members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with their respective immediate family members and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 19% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. 24 The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, our articles of association authorize the Board of Directors for a maximum period of one year to increase the stated share capital to a maximum of 120% and/or reduce it to a minimum of 90% of the existing stated share capital of the Company. This authorization must be renewed at a shareholders meeting every year for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax. Under current Swiss law, distributions in excess of unappropriated capital contribution reserves are generally subject to Swiss federal withholding tax of 35%. If we are unable to pay a dividend out of unappropriated capital contribution reserves, any such dividend would be subject to Swiss withholding taxes. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a dividend out of or in excess of capital contribution reserves, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future, or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. As of December 28, 2024, we had $3,640 million of unappropriated capital contribution reserves available from which the Company may make dividend payments. When the capital contribution reserves are fully utilized, the Swiss federal withholding tax must be withheld from the gross dividend distribution and paid to the Swiss federal Tax Administration. A shareholder that qualifies for benefits under a double tax treaty may be able to recover partial withholding tax. For example, a U.S shareholder that qualifies for benefits under the current Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). A Swiss domiciled shareholder may be eligible to utilize the amount withheld as a recoverable tax credit against their Swiss tax liability. Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Act) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (CFCs). The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Companys foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act added Section 951A to the Internal Revenue Code, which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC. The 2017 Act also eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion. 25 From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a share buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity Risk Management and Strategy Garmin has a cybersecurity risk management program, generally aligned with the tenets and methodologies of industry standards and best practices such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework, designed to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the Companys information systems through assessing, identifying, and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats. The management of our information system platforms and the related cybersecurity is tightly integrated with Garmin's product development and technology management teams. Cybersecurity risks are identified, reported, and managed by the Companys in-house cybersecurity experts as well as third-party providers of penetration test reporting, cyber-threat intelligence, and incident forensics services. Material Risk Identification The Company identifies risks from cybersecurity threats through a variety of methods including, but not limited to, internal and external assessments, security incidents, evaluations of changes to the business environment, systems, or technology, and reporting by associates, vendors, customers, and security researchers. These processes occur during the procurement, development, integration, modification, operation, and maintenance of the Companys information systems and the integration with or introduction, purchase, acquisition, or renewal of any third-party information systems and services. Notable changes to the Companys operating environment are scrutinized to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the Company's information systems. Material Risk Assessment The Company evaluates material risks from cybersecurity threats in terms of the potential impact on technology, information, data, and business operations, taking into account applicable laws and regulations, and with a focus on protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information, data and systems. Associated risk assessments are performed by the Companys risk analysts, subject matter experts, and information technology associates to identify, analyze, and quantify the risks and relevant objectives, and to determine the appropriate management action and priorities for managing the risks and implementing mitigating controls. Additional assessments to evaluate residual risk are performed when there are changes to controls that have the potential to create a material risk. Risk assessments also include appropriate considerations for regulatory and contractual requirements, and involve the Companys legal, data privacy, finance, and risk assurance functions as applicable. 26 Material Risk Management The Company continually analyzes and responds to material risks from cybersecurity threats in order to manage them to acceptable levels. The results of related risk assessments are used to prioritize the risks based on their potential impact to the Company and to inform the necessary actions and the appropriate functions to be involved in responding to those risks. Garmins cybersecurity risk management processes are integrated into the Companys overall risk management processes. Material risks from cybersecurity threats are communicated to the Companys management and Board of Directors and are evaluated and considered alongside operational, legal, and other risks faced by the Company in determining mitigating actions and the allocation of resources. Risks Related to Third-party Service Providers Garmin operates a third-party risk management program, which is aligned to NIST principles, to oversee and identify material risks from cybersecurity threats, undertake appropriate remediation, and establish and maintain compensating controls when appropriate. We conduct cybersecurity assessments of third-party service providers that will process personal, confidential, or proprietary information. Before proceeding with any such third-party service provider, we require them to remediate or mitigate any material findings from our cybersecurity assessment and to agree contractually to maintain acceptable cybersecurity practices throughout the duration of their service to Garmin and after for so long as they retain any personal, confidential, or proprietary information, and to promptly notify Garmin of any cybersecurity incidents that impact Garmin. Risks from Cybersecurity Threats While the Company has technology and processes in place designed to detect and respond to cybersecurity threats, we are continually at risk from the evolving cybersecurity threat landscape. Management does not believe our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition have been materially affected by risks from cybersecurity threats, but we cannot provide assurance that they will not be materially affected in the future by such risks. For additional information about risks from cybersecurity threats, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Governance Board of Directors Oversight Garmins entire Board of Directors performs the risk oversight role, including with respect to risks from cybersecurity threats. Garmins Chief Executive Officer is a member of the Board, and Garmins Chief Financial Officer and its General Counsel regularly attend Board meetings, which helps facilitate discussions regarding risk between the Board and Garmins senior management.In addition, on an annual basis Garmins head of cybersecurity provides a comprehensive update of the Companys cybersecurity practices, risks and risk mitigation strategies to the Board of Directors. Each member of the Board of Directors actively participates in those discussions and has an opportunity to ask questions or provide direction. Garmins Chief Executive Officer and head of cybersecurity also have discussions with members of the Board of Directors on an ad hoc basis as appropriate if and when a specific cybersecurity risk arises. Managements Role Managing Risk and Monitoring Incidents Garmin's head of cybersecurity, who has over 30 years of relevant cybersecurity experience, oversees the Companys cybersecurity risk management program and is responsible for assessing and managing the Companys material risks from cybersecurity threats.Garmins head of cybersecurity regularly meets with the Companys senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, to discuss the Companys cybersecurity practices, risks, risk mitigation strategies, and whether further investments in internal or external cybersecurity resources are warranted. If the cybersecurity team detects a potentially significant cybersecurity incident it is escalated promptly to the Companys head of cybersecurity, who then activates the Companys incident response plan and convenes the incident response team, which includes leaders of the Companys Legal, Finance, Operations, Communications, Risk Assurance, and other departments and executive leadership as appropriate. The Chief Executive Officer will inform the Companys Board of Directors of any material cybersecurity incidents. 27 Item 2. Properties Garmin and its subsidiaries own and lease physical properties around the world. Depending on location, the properties could be used for manufacturing, warehousing, research and development, office space, retail, or a combination of activities. Due to the nature of the activities conducted at the Companys properties and its vertically integrated operations, properties typically serve multiple segments and are not allocated to any one segment. Principal properties of Garmin include approximately 2,244,000 square feet of owned facilities located in Olathe, Kansas, approximately 255,000 square feet of owned and leased facilities located across various locations in the United Kingdom, approximately 319,000 square feet of leased facilities located in Wroclaw, Poland, and approximately 1,847,000 square feet of owned facilities located across various locations in Taiwan. These properties are considered principal properties due to the nature of the business activities carried out at each location. Garmin also owns and leases additional properties for office, design, distribution, service, manufacturing, retail, warehousing and other purposes throughout the U.S. and in various places outside the U.S. The Company believes its existing facilities and properties are in good operating condition and are suitable for the conduct of its business. Item 3. Legal Proceedings In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Companys management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company settled or resolved certain matters during the fiscal year ended December 28, 2024 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure Not applicable. Information about our Executive Officers Garmins executive officers as of February 19, 2025 were as follows: Name Office Age Dr. Min H. Kao Executive Chairman 76 Clifton A. Pemble President and Chief Executive Officer 59 Douglas G. Boessen Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 62 Patrick G. Desbois Co-Chief Operating Officer 56 Bradley C. Trenkle Co-Chief Operating Officer 45 Joshua H. Maxfield Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary 52 Danny J. Bartel Vice President, Global Consumer Sales 75 Sean M. Biddlecombe Managing Director, EMEA 60 Edward J. Link Vice President, Information Technology 62 Susan C. Lyman Vice President, Global Consumer Marketing 59 Laurie A. Minard Vice President, Human Resources 58 Matthew W. Munn Executive Vice President, Managing Director Auto OEM 63 Philip I. Straub Executive Vice President, Managing Director Aviation 54 Wang Cheng-Wei General Manager, Garmin Corporation 60 Dr. Min H. Kao has served as Executive Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013. Dr. Kao is one of Garmins co-founders and previously served as Chairman from August 2004 to December 2012 and Co-Chairman from August 2000 to August 2004. He served as Chief Executive Officer from August 2002 to December 2012 and as Co-Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 to August 2002. 28 Clifton A. Pemble has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013. He has also served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004. Since joining Garmin in October 1989 as a Software Engineer, he has held various other positions, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Vice President - Engineering and Director of Engineering. Mr. Pemble also serves as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries. Douglas G. Boessen has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since joining Garmin in July 2014. Mr. Boessen also serves as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries. Patrick G. Desbois has served as co-Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. since July 2024. He joined Garmin in November 2011 as Vice President, Executive Office and also served as Executive Vice President, Operations of Garmin International, Inc., a principal subsidiary of Garmin Ltd. Bradley C. Trenkle has served as co-Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. since July 2024. Since joining Garmin in 2002 as a Software Engineer, he has held various leadership positions at the Company, including Vice President, Outdoor Segment of Garmin International, Inc. Mr. Trenkle also serves as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries. Joshua H. Maxfield has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since July 2024. Since joining Garmin in August of 2006 as a Senior Staff Attorney, he has held various other positions, including Associate General Counsel-Corporate. Mr. Maxfield also serves as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries. Danny J. Bartel has served as Vice President, Worldwide Sales of Garmin International, Inc. since October 2006. Since joining Garmin as a Sales Manager in November 1992, he has held various other positions, including Senior Director Worldwide Sales, Director Consumer Sales and Director International Marketing. Mr. Bartel also serves as a director and officer of various other Garmin subsidiaries. Sean M. Biddlecombe has served as Managing Director, EMEA for Garmin (Europe) Ltd., a principal subsidiary of Garmin Ltd., since February 2011. He joined Garmin in February 1994 as General Manager of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. Mr. Biddlecombe also serves as a director and officer of various other Garmin subsidiaries. Edward J. Link has served as Vice President, Information Technology of Garmin International, Inc. since July of 2007. He joined Garmin in December of 2006 as Director, Information Technology. Susan C. Lyman has served as Vice President, Global Consumer Marketing of Garmin International, Inc. since June 2016. Since rejoining Garmin in 2010, she has held the positions of Product Manager, Team Leader Marketing and Director Marketing. Ms. Lyman previously worked for Garmin as a Marketing Manager from 1996 to 1999. Laurie A. Minard has served as Vice President, Human Resources of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2007. Since joining Garmin in March 1996, she has held the positions of Human Resources Specialist and Director, Human Resources. Matthew W. Munn has served as Executive Vice President, Managing Director Auto OEM of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2024. He joined Garmin in May 2011 as Vice President, Managing Director Auto OEM. Philip I. Straub has served as Executive Vice President, Managing Director - Aviation of Garmin International, Inc. since February 2017. Since joining Garmin in July 1993 as a Software Engineer, he has held various other positions, including Director of Engineering and Software Engineering Manager. Mr. Straub also serves as a director and officer of various other Garmin subsidiaries. Wang Cheng-Wei has served as General Manager of Garmin Corporation, a principal subsidiary of Garmin Ltd., since April 2019. Since joining Garmin in July 1992, he has served in various other positions, including as a Supervisor, Manager, Director and Assistant General Manager of Garmin Corporation. Mr. Wang also serves as a director and officer of various other Garmin subsidiaries. 29 All executive officers are elected or appointed annually and hold office until their successors are chosen and qualify or until their removal or resignation. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers. 30 PART II Item 5. Market for the Companys Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Since December 7, 2021, Garmins shares have traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "GRMN". Prior to December 7, 2021, Garmin's shares were traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC under the symbol GRMN since its initial public offering on December 8, 2000 (the IPO). As of January 31, 2025, there were 297 shareholders of record. We refer you to Item 12 of this report under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information for certain equity plan information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Share repurchase activity during the 13-week period ended December 28, 2024, summarized on a trade-date basis, was as follows (in thousands, except per share amounts): Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Program September 29, 2024 - October 26, 2024 112 $ 165.82 112 $ 251,610 October 27, 2024 - November 23, 2024 24 $ 189.96 24 $ 247,051 November 24, 2024 - December 28, 2024 46 $ 213.44 46 $ 237,233 Total 182 182 (1) The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 16, 2024 (the "2024 Program"), which was announced on February 21, 2024. The 2024 Program authorizes the Company to purchase up to $300 million of its common shares, exclusive of the cost of any associated excise tax. Share repurchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, including under plans complying with the provisions of Rule 10b5-1 and Rule 10b-18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The timing and volume of share repurchases are subject to market conditions, business conditions and applicable laws, and are at managements discretion. The 2024 Program does not require the purchase of any minimum number of shares and may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The 2024 Program expires on December 26, 2026. See Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to share repurchases. (2) Average price paid per share includes costs associated with the repurchases, except for the cost of any associated excise tax. Dividends Future dividends on our common shares, if any, must be approved by our shareholders. In exercising their discretion to recommend to the shareholders that such dividends be approved, our Board of Directors will consider our financial condition, results of operations, cash requirements and surplus, statutory requirements of applicable law, contractual restrictions, and other factors that they may deem relevant. For additional information, see the risk factor in Part I, Item 1A, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K entitled "We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax." 31 Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The graph below matches Garmin Ltd.'s cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common shares with the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary Index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common shares and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from December 28, 2019 (12/28/19) to December 28, 2024 (12/28/24). 12/28/19 12/26/20 12/25/21 12/31/22 12/30/23 12/28/24 Garmin Ltd. 100.00 125.14 142.59 100.81 144.25 239.08 S&P 500 100.00 118.40 152.39 124.79 157.59 197.02 S&P 500 Consumer Discretionary 100.00 133.30 165.87 104.45 148.74 193.57 The share price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future share price performance. Item 6. [Reserved] 32 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments during the fiscal years ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023 and a year-to-year comparison of these two fiscal years. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. Discussion regarding our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 and a year-to-year comparison between the fiscal years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 can be found in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes, or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmins fiscal year is based on a 52- or 53-week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal years 2024 and 2023 each contained 52 weeks, and fiscal year 2022 contained 53 weeks. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Companys fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we", "us", "our", "the Company" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview The Company is a leading worldwide provider of wireless devices, many of which feature Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation, and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin is organized in the five operating segments of fitness, outdoor, aviation, marine, and auto OEM. These operating segments represent our reportable segments. The Companys Chief Executive Officer, who has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), allocates resources and assesses performance of each operating segment individually. Critical Accounting Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, goodwill, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Refer to Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our significant accounting policies related to our critical accounting estimates. 33 Unrecognized Income Tax Benefits We recognize liabilities associated with uncertain income tax positions, including those related to transfer pricing, based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. We recognize the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be not required or it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Assessing uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment, including the evaluation of unique facts and circumstances and the interpretation of laws and regulations, especially the assessment of pricing analyses that may produce various ranges of outcomes. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our retail partners, dealer and distributor network, installation and repair shops, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), our online webshop (garmin.com), subscriptions for connected services, and our own retail stores. Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive from our retail, dealer, and distributor customers. Certain arrangements with OEM customers are entered into at the beginning of an aircraft, boat, or vehicle life cycle with the intent to fulfill customer purchasing requirements for the entire production life, although there are generally no firm volume commitments, and sales are therefore generated on an order-by-order basis. As a result, we do not believe backlog information is material to the understanding of our business. Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and many marine products experience increased demand in the first and second quarters in advance of the summer boating season. Sales of our consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation and auto OEM products do not experience much seasonal variation but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, auto program manufacturing, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower-cost or more readily available components. We believe that our flexible production model allows our factories to experience relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan than in other locations. Shipping and handling costs associated with the transportation and delivery of our products are included in cost of goods sold. Such costs fluctuate due to a number of factors, including market pricing and the mix of modes of transportation we utilize. Sales price variability, including that which is associated with foreign currency fluctuations, has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. Our consolidated gross margin, representing gross profit as a percentage of net sales, is also dependent on segment mix and product mix within each segment. 34 Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent engineering personnel costs, costs of test equipment and components used in product and prototype development, and outside product development costs. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive to expand our ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new auto OEM programs and new markets for active lifestyle products. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: advertising costs associated primarily with media advertising, cooperative advertising with our retail partners, point of sale displays, and sponsorships; information systems and infrastructure costs; salaries for sales, marketing and product support personnel; salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; marketing, and other brand building costs; finance and legal costs; human resource costs; travel and related costs; and occupancy and other overhead costs. Results of Operations In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, the Company changed the presentation of operating expense to include advertising expense within selling, general and administrative expenses on the Company's consolidated statements of income, which management believes to be a more meaningful presentation. Results for the 52-week and 53-week periods ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, have been recast to conform to current period presentation. This change had no effect on the Companys consolidated operating or net income. The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 52-Weeks Ended 52-Weeks Ended 53-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 December 30, 2023 December 31, 2022 Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of goods sold 41 % 43 % 42 % Gross profit 59 % 57 % 58 % Operating expenses: Research and development 16 % 17 % 17 % Selling, general and administrative 18 % 19 % 19 % Total operating expenses 33 % 37 % 37 % Operating income 25 % 21 % 21 % Other income (expense), net 2 % 2 % 1 % Income before income taxes 27 % 23 % 22 % Income tax provision (benefit) 5 % (2 )% 2 % Net income 22 % 25 % 20 % The table below sets forth our results of operations through operating income for each of our five reportable segments. The Companys CODM primarily uses operating income as the measure of profit or loss to assess segment performance and allocate resources. Operating income represents net sales less costs of goods sold and operating expenses. Net sales are directly attributed to each segment. Most costs of goods sold and the majority of operating expenses are also directly attributed to each segment, while certain other costs of goods sold and operating expenses are allocated to the segments in a reasonable manner considering the specific facts and circumstances of the expenses being allocated. For each line item in the table below, the total of the reportable segments amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income. 35 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Marine Auto OEM Net sales $ 1,774,487 $ 1,961,990 $ 876,614 $ 1,073,192 $ 610,620 Cost of goods sold 742,480 655,585 220,105 479,065 503,113 Gross profit 1,032,007 1,306,405 656,509 594,127 107,507 Total operating expenses 549,335 603,675 445,142 358,117 146,292 Operating income (loss) $ 482,672 $ 702,730 $ 211,367 $ 236,010 $ (38,785 ) 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Marine Auto OEM Net sales $ 1,344,637 $ 1,697,151 $ 846,329 $ 916,911 $ 423,224 Cost of goods sold 627,731 624,290 220,341 425,650 325,285 Gross profit 716,906 1,072,861 625,988 491,261 97,939 Total operating expenses 484,705 557,607 399,588 311,832 159,063 Operating income (loss) $ 232,201 $ 515,254 $ 226,400 $ 179,429 $ (61,124 ) 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Fitness Outdoor Aviation Marine Auto OEM Net sales $ 1,109,419 $ 1,770,275 $ 792,799 $ 903,983 $ 283,810 Cost of goods sold 557,002 670,867 219,736 412,526 193,380 Gross profit 552,417 1,099,408 573,063 491,457 90,430 Total operating expenses 447,679 526,127 359,877 276,153 169,094 Operating income (loss) $ 104,738 $ 573,281 $ 213,186 $ 215,304 $ (78,664 ) Net Sales Net Sales 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Year-over-Year Change 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Fitness $ 1,774,487 32 % $ 1,344,637 21 % $ 1,109,419 Percentage of Total Net Sales 28 % 26 % 23 % Outdoor 1,961,990 16 % 1,697,151 (4 %) 1,770,275 Percentage of Total Net Sales 31 % 32 % 36 % Aviation 876,614 4 % 846,329 7 % 792,799 Percentage of Total Net Sales 14 % 16 % 16 % Marine 1,073,192 17 % 916,911 1 % 903,983 Percentage of Total Net Sales 17 % 18 % 19 % Auto OEM 610,620 44 % 423,224 49 % 283,810 Percentage of Total Net Sales 10 % 8 % 6 % Total $ 6,296,903 20 % $ 5,228,252 8 % $ 4,860,286 Net sales increased 20% in fiscal year 2024 when compared to the year-ago period. Total unit sales increased approximately 15% to 18.6 million units in 2024 from 16.2 million units in 2023. Outdoor revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix at 31% in 2024, compared to 32% in 2023. The increase in fitness revenue was driven by sales growth across all product categories, led by strong demand for wearables. Outdoor revenue increased primarily due to sales growth in adventure watches. Aviation revenue increased primarily due to growth in OEM product categories. The increase in marine revenue was primarily driven by contributions from the Company's acquisition of JL Audio. Auto OEM revenue increased primarily due to increased shipments of domain controllers. 36 Gross Profit Gross Profit 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Year-over-Year Change 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Fitness $ 1,032,007 44 % $ 716,906 30 % $ 552,417 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 58 % 53 % 50 % Outdoor 1,306,405 22 % 1,072,861 (2 %) 1,099,408 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 67 % 63 % 62 % Aviation 656,509 5 % 625,988 9 % 573,063 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 75 % 74 % 72 % Marine 594,127 21 % 491,261 0 % 491,457 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 55 % 54 % 54 % Auto OEM 107,507 10 % 97,939 8 % 90,430 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 18 % 23 % 32 % Total $ 3,696,555 23 % $ 3,004,955 7 % $ 2,806,775 Percentage of Total Net Sales 59 % 57 % 58 % Gross profit dollars in fiscal year 2024 increased 23%, primarily due to the increase in net sales compared to the year-ago period as described above. Consolidated gross margin increased 120 basis points when compared to the year-ago period due to higher margins within certain segments, partially offset by unfavorable segment mix. The fitness, outdoor, and marine gross margin increases of 480 basis points, 340 basis points, and 180 basis points, respectively, were primarily attributable to lower costs of goods and favorable product mix. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the aviation segment. The auto OEM gross margin decrease of 550 basis points was primarily attributable to unfavorable product mix. Operating Expense Operating Expense 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Year-over-Year Change 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Research and development expense $ 993,601 10 % $ 904,696 8 % $ 834,927 Percentage of Total Net Sales 16 % 17 % 17 % Selling, general, and administrative expenses 1,108,960 10 % 1,008,099 7 % 944,003 Percentage of Total Net Sales 18 % 19 % 19 % Total $ 2,102,561 10 % $ 1,912,795 8 % $ 1,778,930 Percentage of Total Net Sales 33 % 37 % 37 % Total operating expense increased 10% in absolute dollars and decreased 320 basis points as a percent of revenue in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. Research and development expense increased 10% in absolute dollars and decreased 150 basis points as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 10% in absolute dollars and decreased 170 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased personnel-related expenses and information technology costs. 37 Operating Income Operating Income (Loss) 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 Year-over-Year Change 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 Year-over-Year Change 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Fitness $ 482,672 108 % $ 232,201 122 % $ 104,738 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 27 % 17 % 9 % Outdoor 702,730 36 % 515,254 (10 %) 573,281 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 36 % 30 % 32 % Aviation 211,367 (7 %) 226,400 6 % 213,186 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 24 % 27 % 27 % Marine 236,010 32 % 179,429 (17 %) 215,304 Percentage of Segment Net Sales 22 % 20 % 24 % Auto OEM (38,785 ) NM (61,124 ) NM (78,664 ) Percentage of Segment Net Sales (6 %) (14 %) (28 %) Total $ 1,593,994 46 % $ 1,092,160 6 % $ 1,027,845 Percentage of Total Net Sales 25 % 21 % 21 % NM - Represents that the percentage change is not meaningful. Total operating income increased 46% in absolute dollars and increased 440 basis points as a percent of revenue in fiscal year 2024 compared to fiscal year 2023. The increase in operating income as a percent of revenue was due to increased sales, increased gross margin as a percent of revenue, and lower operating expenses as a percent of revenue, as described above. The improved performance in fitness, outdoor, marine, and auto OEM was partially offset by a decrease in aviation. Auto OEM experienced an operating loss in fiscal year 2024, and we expect auto OEM to experience an operating loss in 2025. Other Income (Expense) Other Income (Expense) 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Interest income $ 113,520 $ 77,302 $ 40,826 Foreign currency (losses) gains (20,599 ) 26,434 (11,274 ) Other income 8,486 4,460 7,577 Total $ 101,407 $ 108,196 $ 37,129 The average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the 52-weeks ended December 28, 2024 and December 30, 2023 were 3.3% and 2.7%, respectively. Interest income increased primarily due to higher balances of cash and investments and higher yields on fixed-income securities. Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are driven by movements of a number of currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the Euro is the functional currency of several subsidiaries, and the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other notable currency exposures include the Australian Dollar and Polish Zloty. The majority of the Companys consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. The $20.6 million currency loss recognized in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Euro, Polish Zloty, and Australian Dollar, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.5% against the Euro, 4.1% against the Polish Zloty, and 8.9% against the Australian Dollar, resulting in losses of $27.1 million, $11.3 million, and $8.7 million, respectively, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 6.5% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $36.4 million. The remaining net currency loss of $9.9 million was related to the impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. The $26.4 million currency gain recognized in fiscal 2023 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Polish Zloty and Euro, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening at times during the year against the Taiwan Dollar. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 12.3% against the Polish Zloty and 3.1% against the Euro, resulting in gains of $24.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening at times during the year against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a net loss of $5.1 million. The remaining net currency loss of $1.7 million was related to the impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. 38 Income Tax Provision (Benefit) 52-Weeks Ended December 28, 2024 52-Weeks Ended December 30, 2023 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2022 Income before income taxes $ 1,695,401 $ 1,200,356 $ 1,064,974 Income tax provision (benefit) 283,965 (89,280 ) 91,389 Effective tax rate 17 % (7 )% 9 % The Company recorded income tax expense of $284.0 million for the fiscal year ended December 28, 2024. The Company recorded income tax benefit of $89.3 million for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, which included income tax benefit of $181.4 million recognized by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2023 related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets and income tax benefit of $12.1 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2023 related to auto OEM manufacturing tax incentives in Poland. Global taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations, including the establishment of a global minimum tax rate of 15%. Many countries in which Garmin operates have implemented, or are in the process of implementing, global minimum tax legislation. Additionally, the Swiss canton of Schaffhausen passed legislation in 2023 that increased the cantonal corporate tax rate in 2024, resulting in a combined federal and cantonal statutory tax rate of approximately 15% in Switzerland. The increase in our effective tax rate in 2024 as compared to 2023 and 2022 is primarily due to the increase in the combined Switzerland statutory tax rate, while our effective tax rate in 2023 also benefited from the discrete impacts noted above. Partially to respond to changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction in 2020 which migrates ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the Company's primary location for research, development and executive management. At the end of this migration, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the U.S. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we have obtained advanced pricing agreements with the relevant jurisdictions. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above net income increased 9% to $1,411.4 million from $1,289.6 million in the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund share repurchases, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our short- and long-term projected working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements. Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities As of December 28, 2024, we had approximately $3.7 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management invests idle or surplus cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Companys Board of Directors. The investment policys primary objectives are to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmins average interest rate returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2024 and 2023 were 3.3% and 2.7%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral, and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. 39 Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities totaled $1,432.5 million for fiscal 2024, compared to $1,376.3 million for fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers primarily driven by higher net sales, partially offset by increases in cash paid for cost of goods sold and operating expenses in fiscal 2024 when compared to fiscal 2023. Cash used in investing activities totaled $393.3 million for fiscal 2024, compared to $333.0 million for fiscal 2023. The increase was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of marketable securities in fiscal 2024 compared to net redemptions of marketable securities in fiscal 2023. This was partially offset by a decrease in cash used for acquisitions in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Cash used in financing activities totaled $626.9 million for fiscal 2024, compared to $636.5 million for fiscal 2023. This decrease was primarily due to lower purchases of treasury shares under the share repurchase plan in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. This was partially offset by an increase in dividends paid and an increase in purchases of treasury stock related to equity awards in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023. Uses of Cash Operating Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain real estate properties, vehicles, and equipment. Leased properties are typically used for office space, distribution, and retail. As of December 28, 2024, the Company had fixed lease payment obligations of $195.4 million, with $36.6 million payable within 12 months. Inventory Purchase Obligations The Company obtains various raw materials and components for its products from a variety of third party suppliers. The Companys inventory purchase obligations are primarily noncancelable. As of December 28, 2024, the Company had inventory purchase obligations of $891.9 million, with $731.9 million payable within 12 months. Other Purchase Obligations The Companys other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable commitments for indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. As of December 28, 2024, the Company had other purchase obligations of $380.1 million, with $188.3 million payable within 12 months. Other Uses of Cash Net cash outlays for income taxes exceeded income tax expense in each of the 2024, 2023, and 2022 fiscal years, partially due to the provisions of the 2017 United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which require us to capitalize certain research and development costs and amortize those costs on our U.S. tax returns over a period of five or fifteen years, depending on where the associated costs were incurred. Primarily as a result of these provisions, we expect net cash outlays for income taxes to again exceed income tax expense in fiscal 2025. Cash paid for taxes is also expected to increase in 2025 as compared to 2024, primarily due to the payment of taxes in arrears related to the intercompany transaction to migrate ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States. 40