Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their date. If any of management's assumptions prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, the Company's actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those factors identified under Item 1A Risk Factors. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any forward-looking statements concerning the Company. The Company does not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to reflect future events or developments. Part I Item 1. Business This discussion of the business of Garmin Ltd. ("Garmin" or the "Company") should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under Item 7 herein and the information set forth in response to Item 101 of Regulation S-K in such Item 7 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin has identified five reportable segments for external reporting purposes: auto, aviation, marine, outdoor and fitness. There are two operating segments (auto PND and auto OEM) that are not reported separately but are aggregated within the auto reportable segment. Each operating segment is individually reviewed and evaluated by our Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), who allocates resources and assesses performance of each segment individually. The segment and geographic information included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, under Note 8 is incorporated herein by reference in partial response to this Item 1. Garmin was incorporated in Switzerland on February 9, 2010 as successor to Garmin Ltd., a Cayman Islands company (Garmin Cayman). Garmin Cayman was incorporated on July 24, 2000 as a holding company for Garmin Corporation, a Taiwan corporation, in order to facilitate a public offering of Garmin Cayman shares in the United States. On June 27, 2010, Garmin became the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group of companies pursuant to a share exchange transaction effected for the purpose of changing the place of incorporation of the ultimate parent holding company of the Garmin group from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland (the Redomestication). Pursuant to the Redomestication, all issued and outstanding Garmin Cayman common shares were transferred to Garmin and each common share, par value U.S. $0.005 per share, of Garmin Cayman was exchanged for one registered share, par value 10 Swiss francs (CHF) per share, of Garmin. At the Companys Annual General Meeting on June 10, 2016, the Companys shareholders approved the cancellation of 10,000,000 registered shares of the Company held by the Company (the Formation Shares) and the reduction in par value of each share of the Company from CHF 10 to CHF 0.10 and the amendment of the Companys Articles of Association to effect a corresponding share capital reduction. This share cancellation has reduced authorized shares from 208,077,418 shares to 198,077,418 shares, with an incremental 99,038,709 conditional shares that may be issued through the exercise of option rights, which are granted to Garmin employees or members of its Board of Directors. Garmin owns, directly or indirectly, all of the operating companies in the Garmin group. 3 Garmins annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed by Garmins directors and executive officers and all amendments to those reports will be made available free of charge through the Investor Relations section of Garmins website (http://www.garmin.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC maintains an Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The reference to Garmins website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on this website, and such information should not be considered part of this report on Form 10-K. Company Overview For over 25 years, Garmin Ltd. and subsidiaries (together, the Company) has pioneered new Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation and wireless devices and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin serves five primary business units, including auto, aviation, fitness, marine, and outdoor. We believe it is through these business units that Garmin is able to achieve synergies in raw material purchases, manufacturing, distribution, research and development and marketing efforts making for a stronger, more effective company. Garmin designs, develops, manufactures, markets and distributes a diverse family of hand-held, wearable, portable and fixed-mount GPS-enabled products and other navigation, communications, sensor-based and information products. Since the inception of its business, Garmin has delivered over 173 million products, which includes the delivery of more than 16 million products during 2016. Overview of the Global Positioning System The Global Positioning System is a worldwide navigation system which enables the precise determination of geographic location using established satellite technology. The system consists of numerous constellations of orbiting satellites. Access to the systems is provided free of charge. Garmin utilizes a variety of global navigation satellite systems (GNSS) including, but not limited to: The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense, which maintains an ongoing satellite replenishment program to ensure continuous global system coverage. Japans MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation on September 27, 2007. The European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS) aviation Safety of Life (SoL) service which achieved initial operating capability for enroute, terminal, and approach navigation on March 2, 2011. The Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), a space-based satellite navigation system operated by the Russian Federation, consisting of 24 satellites and providing world-wide coverage. In certain urban canyon or restricted sky visibility situations, the use of both GPS and GLONASS satellites to produce a navigation fix may result in improved accuracy. On a subscription basis, certain Garmin products offer access to the Iridium satellite network, a synchronized constellation of 66 low Earth orbit (LEO) satellites offering global data communication coverage. The Iridium network is the only network that spans the entire globe, offering 100 percent coverage worldwide to enable satellite-based communication. The accuracy and utility of GPS can be enhanced through augmentation techniques which compute any remaining errors in the signal and broadcast these corrections to a GPS device. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has developed a Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS) comprising ground reference stations and additional satellites that improve the accuracy of GPS positioning available in the United States and most of Canada and Mexico to approximately 3 meters. WAAS supports the use of GPS as the primary means of enroute, terminal and approach navigation for aviation in the United States. The increased accuracy offered by WAAS also enhances the utility of WAAS-enabled GPS receivers for consumer applications. 4 Products Garmin offers a broad range of solutions across its reportable segments as outlined below. In general, Garmin believes that its products are known for their value, high performance, ease of use, innovation, and ergonomics. Auto Garmin offers a broad range of auto navigation products, as well as a variety of products and applications designed for the mobile GPS market. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world: Personal Navigation Devices (PND) PNDs combine a full-featured GPS navigator (with built-in maps) with Garmins uniquely simple user interface. PNDs are sold under the Garmin Drive, zmo, dzl, RV and Garmin fleet product lines. The zmo series offers motorcycle-specific features. RV series offers features specific to the RV enthusiast. The dzl series offers over-the-road trucking features while the Garmin fleet series delivers an integrated tracking and dispatch fleet system. Across the expansive product portfolio, Garmin offers features such as large screens, integrated traffic receivers for traffic avoidance, bundled lifetime map updates, spoken street names, voice activated navigation, speed limit indication, lane assist with PhotoReal junction views - thousands of high quality photos of actual upcoming junctions, Bluetooth hands-free capability, DashCams/Passenger Cams, driver awareness alerts, and backup cameras. In fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Garmin Drive (formerly, nvi) class of products represented approximately 16%, 22%, and 27% of Garmins total consolidated revenues, respectively. Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) Solutions Garmin has cultivated key relationships with many OEMs, where we provide a host of solutions. These range from complete embedded infotainment systems that provide a broad range of functionality, to integrated camera solutions, embedded navigation solutions, and precise positioning technology solutions. These support not only the infotainment system in the vehicle, but also key advanced driver-assistance systems (ADAS) functionality as well. Mobile Applications Garmin offers mobile applications under the Garmin and NAVIGON product names. The applications are offered across a broad range of smartphones and tablets including iOS, Android and Windows enabled devices. These applications provide users turn-by-turn, voice-prompted directions and other advanced Garmin navigation features. The Smartphone Link mobile application allows a compatible Garmin navigator to connect to a compatible smartphone. Information can be shared between the smartphone and the navigator including notifications, contacts, search results, driving destination, and even parking location. Additional Garmin Live Services can be accessed through Smartphone Link for useful, real-time driving information. 5 Action Cameras Garmin offers VIRB action cameras that capture footage up to 4K/30fps with digital image stabilization, voice or wireless remote control, and the ability to take high quality still photographs while the video camera is recording. VIRB action cameras offer built-in Wi-Fi, data sensors and a high-sensitivity GPS receiver to add speed, elevation, G-force, heart rate, and other data onto video through our VIRB Edit application. Outdoor Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in outdoor activities . Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world: Outdoor Handhelds Outdoor handhelds range from basic waypoints navigation capabilities to advanced color touchscreen devices offering barometric altimeter, 3-axis compass, camera, microSD card slot for optional customized maps, Bluetooth for smartphone connectivity, and other features. Outdoor handhelds are sold under the Oregon, Rino, Montana, eTrex, GPSMAP, and inReach product lines. Each series of products is designed to serve various price points and niche activity categories. The Rino series of handhelds offers two-way Family Radio Service (FRS) and General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS) that integrate two-way voice communications. The Oregon series include numerous features such as Active Weather for up-to-date forecasts and animated weather, as well as Geocaching Live for wireless integration with Geocaching.com. Handhelds with inReach global satellite technology offer 2-way text messaging, S.O.S. capabilities, along with GPS navigation and tracking. Wearable Devices Garmin offers GPS ruggedized smartwatches for outdoor activity. The fnix series provides advanced multisport features for hiking, climbing, skiing, running, cycling, and swimming with several different styling options, including premium jewelers grade materials available in the fnix Chronos models. The fnix series also offers a variety of navigational tools and connected features, as well as Elevate wrist heart rate technology for certain models . The tactix provides features inspired by the requirements of law enforcement and police special operations. Golf Devices The Approach series of golf-focused devices includes both handhelds and wrist-worn products with over 40,000 preloaded worldwide golf courses. The offerings range from basic display of yardages to the front, back and middle of greens to advanced, touchscreen devices providing measurement of individual shot distances and display of the slope-adjusted yardage to fairways, hazards and greens. The X40 model also includes Garmin Elevate wrist heart rate technology . A statistic-tracking feature allows users to track and analyze their golf statistics through the Garmin Connect application. Some devices include swing metrics, which gives audible tones to fine-tune swing tempo, an internal compass which provides directional assistance to the pin on blind shots, manual pin positioning, which allows users to tap and drag the flag on the green for precise yardage to the flag, and the ability to display emails, text messages and alerts. 6 Dog Tracking and Training/Pet Obedience Devices Garmin offers a series of dog-focused products providing a range of functionality including GPS-enabled dog tracking, electronic dog training, and electronic bark correction. The products are offered under the Astro , Alpha , PRO, Sport PRO , BarkLimiter, Delta and Delta Smart product lines. The Astro series can pinpoint multiple dogs positions at one time through all-weather collars and a handheld system, and can also connect to a variety of compatible Garmin devices such as the Garmin DriveTrack 70 GPS navigator or certain fnix series watches to display dog positions . Alpha combines the tracking capabilities of Astro with electronic dog training. The BarkLimiter is an intuitive electronic bark correction device. The Delta and PRO series of training collars offers a remote training device with integrated bark limiting capability for consumer and professional dog training markets. Delta Smart is a dog training device and activity tracker that connects to the Garmin CANINE smartphone app, enabling pet owners to monitor their dogs activity and behavior directly from their smartphone, and give highly customized, or automated training corrections. Fitness Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in fitness and activity tracking. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world: Running/Multi-Sport Watches The Forerunner series offers compact, lightweight training watches for athletes with integrated GPS sensors that provide time, speed, distance, pace and other data. Most models also offer a heart rate monitoring function and heart rate based calorie computation. In 2016, Garmin added the Forerunner 35, providing an entry level running watch with Garmin Elevate wrist-based heart rate monitoring solution. All models allow runners to upload their data to the Garmin Connect application, where they can store, analyze and share their workout data. Additional advanced features include: Virtual Racer, which allows runners to race against their previous best times, recovery advisor, race predictor and VO2 max estimate. Some models are designed specifically for triathletes. These all-in-one GPS-enabled devices provide detailed swim metrics and track distance, speed/pace, elevation and heart rate for running and cycling. Cycling Computers The Edge series measures speed, distance, time, calories burned, climb and descent, and altitude offering an integrated personal training system designed for cyclists. In addition, Garmin offers devices geared toward performance-driven cyclists offering real-time connectivity through a smartphone, providing live tracking, social media sharing and real-time weather updates. Cycling Power Meter Garmin offers Vector, which is a high-precision pedal-based power meter designed specifically for cyclists. It provides power data to compatible devices with (or using) ANT+ technology. Some models also measure and present right and left leg power balance. 7 Cycling Safety and Awareness Garmin offers the Varia product line focused on cycling safety and awareness. Varia bike radar alerts cyclists when vehicles are approaching from behind and Varia bike lights make the cyclist more visible when out on the road. Varia Vision is a heads up display that makes data available to the cyclist in their line of sight, so they dont need to always look down at their Edge cycling computer while they are moving. Activity Tracking Devices Garmin offers numerous devices to address the growing activity tracking market. The vvofit fitness bands provide a personalized daily goal, track progress and remind users when its time to move. The devices feature a one-year battery life with an always-on display that show steps, goal countdown, calories, distance, time of day and heart rate when paired with a monitor. vvofit 3 added Garmin Move IQ auto activity detection. The vvosmart HR and vvosmart HR+ bands provide the same functions as the vvofit 3 but also include Garmin Elevate, smart notifications and a vibration alert. The vvosmart HR+ also incorporates GPS, allowing users to even more accurately track distance, time and pace for their activities, as well as view a map of their activity on Garmin Connect. vvoactive and vvoactive HR are smartwatches focused on the active lifestyle consumer with all the basic activity tracking features along with applications designed for running, cycling and swimming and includes connectivity to the Connect IQ application store for further customizations and capabilities. vvoactive HR includes Garmin Elevate and Move IQ. Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile Garmin Connect and Garmin Connect Mobile are web and mobile platforms where users can track and analyze their fitness and wellness data. In addition, users can share their accomplishments, create training groups and group challenges, and get feedback and encouragement from the Connect community. Marine Garmin offers a broad range of products designed for use in the recreational marine industry. Garmin currently offers to consumers around the world: Chartplotters and Multi-Function Displays (MFDs) Garmin offers numerous chartplotters/MFDs under the GPSMAP and echoMAP product lines. The offerings range from 4-inch portable and fix-mounted products to 24-inch fully-integrated Glass Helm offerings. Cartography options range from US coastal and inland lake mapping including worldwide basemaps to highly detailed BlueChart g2 Vision and LakeV HD Ultra charts offering auto-guidance, 3-D chart views and aerial reference photos. BlueChart g2 Vision and LakeV HD Ultra include Garmins most detailed cartography created based on surveys by Garmins fleet of high tech boats. In 2016, Garmin Quickdraw Contours was introduced, a feature which allows customers to generate their own fishing charts while they cruise around the lake. Additional advanced features and connectivity available include smartphone applications that wirelessly send weather data to your plotter and remotely access your helm electronics. Additionally, most models have the CHIRP sonar function fully integrated to reduce system cost. Our chartplotters also support plug-and-play access to onboard sensors and Garmin accessories with NMEA 2000, Garmin Marine Network (a system that combines GPS, radar, SiriusXM WX Satellite Weather, sonar, and other components) and the FUSION-Link entertainment interface. 8 Fishfinders Garmin offers a new advanced line of fishfinders, the Striker series, which incorporate GPS technology. These fishfinders are available in screen sizes from 4 to 7 inches and are paired with our latest technology sonar transducers to provide the clearest sonar pictures on the water. ClearV sonar is offered on the 4-, 5- and 7-inch models which provides high resolution images of what is under the boat. The 7-inch model also offers a SideV option which provides similar high resolution images but reaches much further out on either side of the boat making the search for fish more efficient. The GPS technology enables anglers to mark their best fishing spots and then easily return to them next weekend, next month, or next year. An additional bonus with GPS on board is that Striker can provide very accurate speed data which boaters will enjoy. Sounders Garmin offers black-box sounders and smart transducers which interface with Garmin MFDs to enhance their utility by providing the depth sounder and fish finder functions in a remote mounted package. The black boxes provide CHIRP, ClearV, and SideV sonar similar to our integrated sonar plotters, but can be mounted in a more convenient location away from the helm. Additionally, we offer up to 3kW transmit power with our black box line-up which will reach deeper depths for ocean use. Our newest smart transducer line is Panoptix . It uses new technology to provide detailed images that can be seen real-time (LiveV). Panoptix also offers 3D sonar views to give a good perspective of the landscape underneath the water. The RealV 3D and 3D historical views are available in thru-hull and transom mount versions of our Panoptix Down product. In 2016, Garmin introduced FrontV (forward looking sonar) based on Panoptix technology. With the PS51 or PS21 FrontV you can see 8 to 10 times the depth in front of you up to 300 feet. Autopilot Systems Garmin offers full-featured marine autopilot systems designed for sailboats and powerboats. The systems incorporate such features as: Garmins patented Shadow Drive technology, which automatically disengages the autopilot if the helm is turned, remote steering and speed control, and integration with the Volvo Penta IPS steering and propulsion system. Garmin has also introduced steer-by-wire autopilot capabilities for various steering systems. Radar In 2016, Garmin introduced the solid state Fantom radar with MotionScope Doppler technology, lowering system power consumption while greatly improving situational awareness of the captain. MotionScope can instantly show if a target is closing on you or safely going in the other direction. Garmin offers both radomes and open array radar products with compatibility to any network-compatible Garmin chartplotter. When paired with our newer MFDs, the radars support dual-range mode so users can operate the radar in two ranges independently. The Garmin radar solutions range from 18 inches to 6 feet antennas and from 4kW (or equivalent) up to 25kW with a maximum range of 96 nautical miles. Instruments Garmin offers NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compliant instrument displays that show data from multiple remote sensors on one screen. Mariners can display instrument data such as depth, speed through the water, water temperature, fuel flow rate, engine data, fuel level, wind direction and more, depending upon the specific sensors connected. Garmin instruments range from 4 to 10 inches, and the 10-inch mast mounted displays provide maximum visibility around the vessel. 9 VHF Communication Radios Garmin provides marine radios with differing feature sets for the radio needs of all types of mariners. The entry-level radio is NMEA 0183 compatible, while the premium radio is designed for 35+ foot boats, is NMEA 2000 and NMEA 0183 compatible, offers multi-station support, and monitors all AIS channels at the same time. Handhelds and Wrist-worn Devices Garmin offers a m arine-friendly GPS handheld featuring a 3-axis tilt-compensated electronic compass, wireless data transfer between compatible units and preloaded cartography for the coastal United States. Also offered for mariners is the quatix 3, Garmins second generation GPS watch designed for mariners, combining marine features for navigation and sailing capabilities while integrating Garmins GPS technology and interface. Sailing Garmin has integrated many basic and advanced sailing features into our MFD and instrument systems. These SailAssist features include enhanced wind rose with true and apparent wind data, pre-race guidance, synchronized race timer, virtual starting line, time to burn and lay line data fields. Entertainment Garmins entertainment brand, FUSION , consists of marine audio head units, speakers and amplifiers. These products are designed specifically for the marine or RV environments and support many connectivity options for integrating with MFDs and smartphones on your boat for the best user experience on the market. The FUSION StereoACTIVE is the first portable stereo with an IPX7 water rating and actually floats. It is perfect for watersports activities or anywhere you want music around the water. The StereoACTIVE has an optional safe for storing items in a water tight compartment. Aviation Garmins aviation business segment is a leading provider of solutions to aircraft manufacturers, existing aircraft owners and operators, as well as military and government customers and serves a range of aircraft including transport aircraft, business aviation, general aviation, experimental/light sport, helicopters, optionally piloted vehicles (OPV), unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) and more. Garmins portfolio includes navigation, communication, flight control, hazard avoidance, weather radar, radar altimeter, datalink weather, traffic collision avoidance systems, terrain awareness and warning systems (TAWS), controller-pilot data link (CPDLC), an expansive suite of automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) solutions, in-cockpit and cloud connectivity, automated logbook, voice and touch control, wearables, portables, apps and other products and services that are known for innovation, reliability, and value. The list below includes a sampling of some of the aviation capabilities currently offered by Garmin around the world: 10 Integrated Avionics Systems/Flight Decks Garmin offers a range of integrated glass flight displays and flight decks from the G3X for the experimental and light-sport aircraft market to the G5000 for business aviation, military and commercial applications. Basic capabilities integrated include: navigation, communication, attitude, weather, terrain, traffic, ADS-B, engine information on large high-resolution color displays, and automatic flight control systems. More advanced features include: Garmins 3-D synthetic vision technology (SVT), weather, Garmins electronic stability and protection system (ESP), electronic flight charts, touchscreen and voice controls, CPDLC, audio and visual feedback, and animation to help pilots know exactly how the system is responding to their input. Garmin offers similar integrated glass avionics for the helicopter market with the G500H, G1000H and G5000H . Basic and advanced capabilities are similar to those offered to the aircraft market. The helicopter offerings have been optimized for rotorcraft and offer features like helicopter synthetic vision technology (HSVT), helicopter terrain awareness and warning system with voice call outs, radar altimeter display, helicopter-specific databases that include additional heliports and low-altitude obstacles, WireAware wire-strike avoidance technology, as well as high resolution terrain, tailored ADS-B traffic alerting, and the ability to display video from a forward looking infrared (FLIR) camera or other video sources. Garmin also offers all-glass integrated avionics to the retrofit market through the G500, G600, G950 , G1000 , G1000 NXi and G5000 . These solutions provide electronic flight displays that work with separate Garmin avionics to provide essential information such as attitude, air data, weather, terrain, traffic and much more. In addition, upgraded systems also allow for the display and control of such data as altitude preselects and vertical speed, DME distance, radar altitude, analog navigation data and much more. Panel-mount aviation products GPS/Navigation/Communication Solutions Garmin serves the market with the GTN series, a premium touchscreen GPS, VHF navigation and communication, and multi-function display (MFD). In addition to these core functions, this series of products combines a wealth of information for the pilot into a single display including flight planning, datalink weather, weather radar, traffic, terrain awareness and warning system (TAWS/HTAWS), charts, airport information, airspace boundaries, and much more. Additional capabilities provide advanced ADS-B in traffic display, including TerminalTraffic and patented TargetTrend technology as well as the ability to control the display with voice commands. The GTN series provides wireless cockpit connectivity (when properly equipped) that includes voice calling, text messaging and position reporting as well as automatic, wireless database updating via Database Concierge as well as wireless flight plan transfer, SiriusXM radio control, sharing of weather, traffic, position information and much more with a portable device like a tablet with the Garmin Pilot app. Advanced integration provides the option to install and remotely control a transponder and audio processor for an even more streamlined and single interface. More traditional VHF navigation and VHF communication receivers are available with the GNC and GTR series. Traffic Solutions Garmin offers a comprehensive line of traffic alert and collision avoidance systems (TCAS) and traffic advisory systems (TAS) for all markets served. Advanced TCAS II systems actively identify potential aircraft threats, coordinate and instruct the pilot with a resolution advisory (RA) via a spoken command. The GTS series also offers TCAS I and TAS that combine active and passive surveillance data to pinpoint specific traffic threats. The systems use our patented CLEAR CAS technology and correlate passive automatic dependent surveillance broadcast (ADS-B) targets with active surveillance targets for a more comprehensive display to the pilot . The system provides audible alerts in a spoken ATC-like format that are easily understood by the pilot and allows them to keep their eyes outside of the aircraft. 11 Audio Solutions The GMA series of audio panels ranging from offerings with basic capabilities for the recreational pilot to advanced capabilities including voice control of audio panel and GTN series functions, Bluetooth connectivity for wireless music input, phone calls and VIRB action camera audio output, advanced audio effects, 3D spatial audio processing, digital voice recorder, advanced auto squelch, ambient noise based volume adjustment and independent pilot/co-pilot communications capabilities. When connected to a Garmin GTN series navigator, advanced voice control functions are available, and include the ability for the audio panel to speak back the current position, weather conditions and more. Transponder and ADS-B Solutions For all of the markets served, Garmin offers solutions that meet and exceed the FAAs ADS-B out mandate that requires all aircraft operating in select U.S. airspace (typically where a Mode C or S transponder is required today) to equip by 2020. For business aviation aircraft, Garmin offers both the GTX 3000 transponder and GDL 88 datalink for both ADS-B out and in while mitigating the need to modify the existing aircraft panel. Business aviation, general aviation, helicopters and experimental/light sport aircraft can utilize our popular GTX 345 series of all-in-one ADS-B transponders that offer options with and without GPS built-in (if the aircraft is not already equipped with mandate required GPS source) as well as ADS-B in. ADS-B in can be displayed on compatible Garmin displays like G1000, GTN, G500/G600 as well as select third party displays and wirelessly transmitted to a portable device like a tablet using the Garmin Pilot app or compatible Garmin portable. ADS-B in offers pilots basic weather information including weather radar imagery, as well as advanced display of traffic with our TerminalTraffic and patented TargetTrend technology. Garmin also offers a range of FAA certified UAT-based ADS-B products within the GDL series, including ADS-B out and ADS-B in as standard options for built-in GPS. All of these products provide traffic correlation with both Garmin and other compatible third party traffic systems such as TCAS to provide a single display of traffic to the pilot. Some products also offer the option for diversity (dual) antenna installation. Weather Solutions Weather capabilities are delivered within our GDL , GSR, GSX, GTX and GWX series. Garmin solutions include offering SiriusXM satellite data link weather information (subscription required) to an aircraft via various panel-mount Garmin displays and/or portable devices. With our GSR 56 datalink, on-demand global weather information, text/voice communications and position tracking through the Iridium satellite network (subscription required) is available. The GWX and GSX series offer solid state, real-time, airborne doppler-capable weather radar solutions. Doppler-enhanced features include ground-clutter suppression and turbulence detection. 12 Portable and Wearable Solutions Garmin offers a variety of portable aviation solutions, including our aera series portable navigators, VIRB aviation action cameras, D2 series pilot watches and GDL 39 series remote GPS/ADS-B receivers. The aera series offers aviators a touchscreen navigation device compatible with a complement of aviation databases including navigation, SafeTaxi , FliteCharts , airport directory and terrain/obstacles for heightened situational awareness. Advanced features include: 3D Vision virtual perspective view of surrounding terrain, a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, geo-referenced sectional and approach charts, wireless database updating, SiriusXM radio and weather (subscription required). Complementing the portable display products and the Garmin Pilot tablet application is the GDL 39 which provides a remote source of GPS and ADS-B In information for traffic and weather. The Garmin wearable aviation solutions include our D2 series pilot watches, which offers a built-in worldwide aviation navigation database and more alongside multisport and smartwatch features. Designed specifically for aviators, the D2 series can display weather information (METARS and TAFs), current position overlaid on a moving map, HSI navigation, Zulu/UTC time and more. With a built-in baro-adjustable altimeter, vibrating alerts based on altitude can be activated to remind a pilot to activate supplemental oxygen or perform other time critical tasks. Multisport features include wrist-based heart rate monitoring and smartwatch capabilities include notification and previews of phone calls, text messages, emails and more. Our VIRB aviation action camera products provide pilots a comprehensive solution to record their flights, with the ability to integrate air traffic control communications to the audio recording, filter out prop distortion and overlay speed, altitude, G-force and more for enhanced post flight analysis. Mobile Application s Garmin Pilot is a premium, global app for iOS or Android mobile devices used for flight planning, filing a flight plan, in flight navigation, and automatic flight logging. It offers a comprehensive and simplified experience to access a wealth of information during any particular phase of the flight including weight and balance, performance, trip calculations, checklists, airport information, weather, traffic, 3D Vision virtual perspective view of surrounding terrain, a digital document viewer, a scratch pad, geo-referenced sectional and approach charts, wireless database updating, ADS-B weather and traffic, SiriusXM radio and weather (subscription required). It incorporates global navigation databases and charting options from Garmin as well as Jeppesen charts. While internet connected, the app provides access to comprehensive global weather information, as available per region, that generally includes weather radar, weather report (METARS), forecasts (TAFs), weather alerts (AIRMETS/SIGMETS), pilot reports, satellite imagery (visible and IR), winds and temperature aloft, lightning data, and notices to airmen (NOTAM). Garmin Pilot is the cornerstone of Garmins connected cockpit, for example when connected wirelessly with G1000 NXi or GTN, a host of benefits become available including automated database updates for the avionics, flight plan transfer, weather and traffic streaming and much more. Garmin Pilot is also wirelessly compatible with select aera series, D2 aviator watches, G3X Touch flight displays, GTX series transponders, VIRB action cameras and much more. Aviation Databases, Extended Warranties and Subscription Services Garmin offers a wide selection of databases, extended warranties and subscription services to complement our products. Our database offerings include Navigation Data, Obstacles, SafeTaxi enhanced airport diagrams, Terrain, Basemap and more. Some of these databases are required by government regulations to be updated regularly for legal flight, and Garmin offers single updates as well as annual subscriptions for owners and operators to update all of an aircraft's qualifying avionics systems at a single price. With a database subscription and compatible avionics, owners and operators can conveniently and wirelessly transfer the latest database updates to their avionics via a tablet running our Garmin Pilot mobile application. 13 To further our award winning support and standard warranties, we offer fixed price extended warranties for upgrade avionics and integrated flight decks that allow owners and operators peace of mind and predictable maintenance costs. These further our standard warranty periods with world-class factory technical service, 24/7 aircraft-on-ground (AOG) emergency service and more. Our comprehensive satellite datalink network provides owners and operators with the compatible avionics, a global weather, voice calling, text messaging and position reporting solution. Global weather includes radar imagery, cloud cover, METARs, TAFs and much more for any point on the globe where the data is available (weather products vary by region). Sales and Marketing Garmins non-aviation products are sold in approximately 100 countries through a vast worldwide network of independent dealers and distributors, who meet our sales and customer service qualifications. No single customers purchases represented 10% or more of Garmins consolidated net sales in the years ended December 31, 2016, December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014. Marketing support is provided geographically from Garmins offices around the world. Garmins distribution strategy is intended to increase Garmins global penetration and presence while maintaining high quality standards to ensure end-user satisfaction. Garmins U.S. consumer product sales are handled through its network of dealers and distributors who are serviced by a staff of regional sales managers and in-house sales associates. Garmins Europe, Middle East, Australia/New Zealand and Africa consumer product sales are handled through our in-country subsidiaries or local distributors who resell to dealers. Working closely with Garmins in-house sales and marketing staff in the U.K. and U.S., these in-country subsidiaries or independent distributors are responsible for inventory levels and staff training requirements at each retail location. Garmins Taiwan-based marketing team handles the Companys Asia sales and marketing effort. Some of Garmins larger consumer products dealers and distributors include: Amazon.com internet retailer; Best Buy one of the largest U.S. and Canadian electronics retailers; Halfords a large European retailer specializing in car parts and accessories; and Wal-Mart the worlds largest mass retailer Garmins retrofit avionics and aviation portable products are sold through select aviation dealers around the world and, in the case of aviation portable products, also through catalogs and pilot shops. Garmins largest aviation dealers include Aircraft Spruce & Specialty Co., Elliott Aviation, Gulf Coast Avionics Corp., Sarasota Avionics, and Sportsmans Market. Avionics dealers have the training, equipment and certified staff required for installation of Garmins avionics equipment. In addition to the traditional distribution channels mentioned, Garmin has many relationships with original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). In the auto segment, Garmins products are sold globally to automotive and motorcycle OEMs, either directly or through tier 2 sourcing. Some of Garmins larger OEM relationships include BMW Motorrad, Bombardier, Chrysler, Harley-Davidson, Honda, Mercedes Benz, Polaris, Suzuki and Volkswagen. In the marine segment, Garmins products are standard equipment on various models of boats. Some of the larger OEM relationships include Ranger Tugs, Cutwater Boats (a Division of Fluid Motion, LLC), Bayliner Boats (a division of Brunswick Corporation), Bavaria Yacht, Chaparral Boats, Inc., Andros Boats, Inc., Edgewater Boats, LLC, Bennington Marine, LLC, Cigarette Racing Team, LLC, Cobalt Boats, LLC, G3 Boats (a division of Yamaha Motor Corp.), Gulf Craft, Inc., Fairline Boats, Ltd., Inha Works Ltd. and Regal Marine Industries, Inc. In the aviation market, Garmins avionics are either standard equipment or options on various models of aircraft. Some of the larger OEM relationships include Airbus Helicopters, Bombardier, Bell Helicopter-A Textron Company, Cirrus Aircraft, Daher, Diamond Aircraft, Embraer SA, Honda Aircraft, Leonardo, Piper Aircraft, Inc., Quest Aircraft Company, Robinson Helicopter Company, Tecnam and Textron Aviation. 14 Competition In general, we operate in highly competitive markets though competitive conditions do vary among our diverse products and geographies. Garmin believes the principal competitive factors impacting the market for its products are design, functionality, quality and reliability, customer service, brand, price, time-to-market and availability. Garmin believes that it generally competes favorably in each of these areas and as such, is generally a significant competitor in each of our major markets. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for portable automotive products are TomTom N.V. and MiTAC Digital Corporation (MiTAC) (which distributes products under the brand names of Magellan, Mio, and Navman). Garmin believes that its principal competitors for infotainment solutions are Harman International Industries, Panasonic Corporation, and the Mitsubishi Group. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for outdoor product lines are Vista Outdoor, Magellan, a subsidiary of MiTAC, SportDOG Brand and Suunto Oy. Garmin believes that its principal competitors for fitness products are Apple Inc., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., Bryton Corp., Fitbit Inc., AliphCom dba Jawbone, Polar Electro Oy, Sigma Sports, Suunto Oy and TomTom NV. For marine products, Garmin believes that its principal competitors are Furuno Electronic Company, the Humminbird division of Johnson Outdoors, Inc., Navico and Flir Systems, Inc. For Garmins aviation product lines, Garmin considers its principal competitors to be Aspen Avionics, Avidyne Corporation, CMC Electronics, Free Flight Systems, Genesys Aerosystems, Honeywell Aerospace & Defense, Innovative Solutions and Support Inc., L-3 Avionics Systems, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Sagem SA and Universal Avionics Systems Corporation. Research and Development Garmins product innovations are driven by its strong emphasis on research and development and the close partnership between Garmins engineering and manufacturing teams. Garmins products are created by its engineering and development staff, which numbered approximately 3,600 people worldwide as of December 31, 2016. Garmins manufacturing staff includes manufacturing process engineers who work closely with Garmins design engineers to ensure manufacturability and manufacturing cost control for its products. Garmins development staff includes industrial designers, as well as software engineers, electrical engineers, mechanical engineers and cartographic engineers. Garmin believes the industrial design of its products has played an important role in Garmins success. Once a development project is initiated and approved, a multi-disciplinary team is created to design the product and transition it into manufacturing. Below is a table of Garmins expenditures on research and development over the last three fiscal years. December 31, December 26, December 27, ($'s in thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Research and development 467,960 427,043 395,121 Percent of net sales 15.5 % 15.1 % 13.8 % Manufacturing and Operations Garmin believes one of its core competencies and strengths is its vertically integrated manufacturing capabilities at its Taiwan facilities in Xizhi, Jhongli and LinKou, its China facility in Yangzhou, and at its U.S. facilities in Olathe, Kansas and Salem, Oregon. Garmin believes that its ownership and operation of its own manufacturing facilities and distribution networks provides significant capability and flexibility to address the breadth and depth of resources necessary to serve its diverse products and markets. Specifically, Garmin believes that its vertical integration of its manufacturing capabilities provides advantages to product cost, quality and time to market. 15 Cost: Garmins manufacturing resources rapidly and iteratively prototype designs, concepts, products and processes, achieving higher efficiency, resulting in lower cost. Garmins vertical integration approach enables leveraging our manufacturing resources across high, mid and low volume products. Sharing of these resources across our product lines favorably affects Garmins costs to produce its range of products, with lower volume products realizing the economies of scale of the high volume products. The ownership and integration of our resources allows Garmin to optimize the design for manufacturing of our products, yielding improved cost. Quality: Garmins automation and sophisticated production processes provide in-service robustness and consistent reliability standards that enables Garmin to maintain strict process and quality control of the products manufactured, thereby improving the overall quality of our products. Additionally, the immediate feedback throughout the manufacturing processes is provided to the development teams providing integrated continuous improvement throughout design and supply chain. Time to Market: Garmin uses multi-disciplinary teams of design engineers, process engineers, and supply chain specialists to develop products, allowing them to quickly move from concept to manufacturing. This integrated ownership provides inherent flexibility to enable faster time to market. Garmins design, manufacturing, distribution, and servicing processes in its U.S., Taiwan, China and U.K. facilities are certified to ISO 9001, an international quality standard developed by the International Organization for Standardization. Garmins automotive operations in Taiwan, China and Olathe have achieved TS 16949 certification, a quality standard for automotive suppliers. Garmins Olathe and Salem aviation operations have achieved certification to AS9100, the quality standard for the aviation industry. Garmin International, Inc., Garmin (Europe) Ltd. and Garmin Corporation have also achieved certification of their environmental management systems to the ISO 14001 standard, recognizing Garmins systems and processes which minimize or prevent harmful effects on the environment and continually strive to improve its environmental performance. Materials Although most components essential to Garmins business are generally available from multiple sources, certain key components are currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources, which subjects Garmin to supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources, including, but not limited to, NAND flash memory, dynamic random access memory (DRAM), GPS chipsets and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and commodity pricing fluctuations. Garmin and other participants in the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication, aviation electronics and consumer electronics industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. In addition, Garmin uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, tablet, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries, and new products introduced by the Company often utilize custom components available from only one source until Garmin has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Garmin makes efforts to manage risks in these areas through the use of supply agreements for strategically important components. Nevertheless, if Garmins supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product was delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to Garmin, Garmins financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Garmins business and financial performance could also be adversely affected depending on the time required to obtain sufficient quantities from the original source, or to identify and obtain sufficient quantities from an alternative source. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet Garmins requirements. 16 Seasonality Our net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Backlog Our sales are generally of a consumer nature and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. In addition, Garmin often relies on licenses of intellectual property for use in its business. For example, Garmin obtains licenses for digital cartography technology for use in our products from various sources. As of January 17, 2017, Garmins worldwide IP portfolio includes over 1,050 patent and 700 trademark registrations. The duration of foreign patents varies in accordance with the provisions of applicable local law. We believe that our continued success depends on the intellectual skills of our employees and their ability to continue to innovate. Garmin will continue to file and prosecute patent applications when appropriate to attempt to protect Garmins rights in its proprietary technologies. There is no assurance that our current patents, or patents which we may later acquire, may successfully withstand any challenge, in whole or in part. It is also possible that any patent issued to us may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or that the patents of others will preclude us from manufacturing and marketing certain products. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against claims of infringement or invalidity. Regulations The telecommunications industry is highly regulated, and the regulatory environment in which Garmin operates is subject to change. In accordance with the United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmins products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmins products, or losing certification for Garmins existing products could adversely affect our business. In addition, aviation products that are intended for installation in type certificated aircraft are required to be certified by the FAA, its European counterpart, the European Aviation Safety Agency, and other comparable organizations before they can be used in an aircraft. 17 Because Garmin Corporation, one of the Companys principal subsidiaries, is located in Taiwan, foreign exchange control laws and regulations of Taiwan with respect to remittances into and out of Taiwan may have an impact on Garmins operations. The Taiwan Foreign Exchange Control Statute, and regulations thereunder, provides that all foreign exchange transactions must be executed by banks designated to handle such business by the Ministry of Finance of Taiwan and by the Central Bank of the Republic of China (Taiwan), also referred to as the CBC. Current regulations favor trade-related foreign exchange transactions. Consequently, foreign currency earned from exports of merchandise and services may now be retained and used freely by exporters, while all foreign currency needed for the import of merchandise and services may be purchased freely from the designated foreign exchange banks. Aside from trade-related foreign exchange transactions, Taiwan companies and residents may, without foreign exchange approval, remit outside and into Taiwan foreign currencies of up to $50 million and $5 million respectively, or their equivalent, each calendar year. Currency conversions within the limits are processed by the designated banks and do not have to be reviewed and approved by the CBC. The above limits apply to remittances involving a conversion between Taiwan Dollars and U.S. Dollars or other foreign currencies. The CBC typically approves foreign exchange in excess of the limits if a party applies with the CBC for review and presents legitimate business reasons justifying the currency conversion. A requirement is also imposed on all enterprises to register all medium and long-term foreign debt with the CBC. Environmental Matters Garmins operations are subject to various environmental laws, including laws addressing air and water pollution and management of hazardous substances and wastes. Substantial noncompliance with applicable environmental laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. Capital expenditures for environmental controls are included in our normal capital budget. Environmental regulation of Garmins products is increasing. Many of Garmin's products are subject to laws relating to the chemical and material composition of our products and their energy efficiency. Garmin is also subject to laws requiring manufacturers to be financially responsible for collection, recovery and recycling of wastes from certain electronic products. Compliance with current environmental laws does not have a material impact on our business, but the impact of future enactment of environmental laws cannot yet be fully determined and could be substantial. Garmin has implemented multiple Environmental Management System (EMS) policies in accordance with the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001 standard for Environmental Health and Safety Management. Garmins EMS policies set forth practices, standards, and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations at Garmins Kansas headquarters facility, Garmins European headquarters facility, and Garmins Taiwan manufacturing facility. Regulatory and Green Procurement demands from our customers are also increasing, particularly in the areas of restricted substance use and environmentally-friendly design and manufacture initiatives. The overall impacts of these customer requirements cannot yet be established. Garmin is committed to improving our products and processes to meet our customer needs. Employees As of December 31, 2016, Garmin had approximately 11,600 full and part-time employees worldwide, of whom approximately 4,400 were in the United States, 100 were in Canada, 5,000 were in Taiwan, 1,300 were in Europe, and 800 were in other global locations. Except for some of Garmins employees in Brazil and Sweden, none of Garmins employees are represented by a labor union and none of Garmin's North American or Taiwan employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Garmin considers its employee relations to be positive. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits from declining segments or product categories are not entirely offset. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. This is particularly important to replace sales and profits lost in declining segments or product categories. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for many of our products are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. We have experienced growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which in recent years have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. If the wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline, such as fitness trackers or smartwatches, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. The demand for personal navigation devices (PNDs) has been and continues to be reduced by replacement technologies becoming available on mobile devices and factory-installed systems in new autos, as well as by market saturation. GPS/navigation technologies have been incorporated into competing devices such as mobile handsets, tablets, and new automobiles through factory-installed systems. Many companies are now offering navigation software for these mobile devices. The acceptance of this technology by consumers has reduced sales in this segment and has reduced profits in some periods. Navigation systems are also becoming more prevalent as standard and/or optional equipment on new automobiles. Increased navigation penetration on mobile handsets and in new automobiles is expected to cause further declines in sales of our portable navigation devices and could further reduce profits. 19 The auto segment, which represents approximately 29% of our revenues, is expected to continue to decline in 2017. We experienced substantial growth through 2008 in the auto segment of our business as PNDs became mass-market consumer electronics in both Europe and North America. This market is declining as competing technologies emerged and market saturation occurred. This has resulted in, and is expected to continue to result in, periods of lower revenues and profits for this segment. Our annual and quarterly financial statements will reflect fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The operation of our subsidiaries in international markets results in exposure to movements in currency exchange rates. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The potential of volatile foreign exchange rate fluctuations in the future could have a significant effect on our results of operations. We have not historically hedged our foreign currency exchange rate risks. The currencies that typically create a majority of our exchange rate exposure are the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other legal entities primarily use the local currency as the functional currency. Due to the relative size of entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, fluctuations of other currencies are not expected to have a material impact on our financial statements. We translate income and expense activity at the approximate rate of exchange at the transaction date, and all assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange in effect at the balance sheet date. Income and expense activity in a currency other than the U.S. Dollar can be impacted by exchange rate variations over time. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management will continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses. Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company. Our tax position could be adversely impacted by changes in Swiss, United States or foreign tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority. We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Legislative proposals are being considered in Switzerland that could make significant changes in the corporate tax regime and increase the taxes applicable to us in Switzerland. Corporate reform being considered in the United States could significantly change our tax liability such as proposals to remove certain domestic deductions, implement border adjustments, and/or broaden the circumstances under which foreign corporations could be considered resident in the United States. Moreover, international taxing standards continue to evolve as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting by multinational corporations. While these recommendations are not changes to tax law, the countries where we operate may implement legislation or take unilateral actions which may result in adverse effects to our income tax provision and financial statements. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Restrictions on trade, particularly on goods imported from Taiwan or the Peoples Republic of China, could significantly harm our results of operations A significant portion of our global and U.S. sales are comprised of goods assembled and manufactured in our facilities in Taiwan and the PRC. The imposition of additional U.S. or foreign governmental controls, regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade with the U.S., or increases in tariffs on goods imported into the U.S., including goods imported from China and Taiwan, could have substantial adverse effects on our business operations, results of operations, and financial condition. Economic, regulatory and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue and in the future, could result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The United Kingdom (UK) held a referendum on June 23, 2016 in which a majority of voters voted to exit the European Union (EU). Due to the unprecedented nature of the expected withdrawal, significant uncertainty exists surrounding the timing and terms of the expected exit. We have operations in the UK and several EU member states whose currencies, namely British Pound Sterling (GBP) and Euro, economies, taxation, and trade regulation, among other factors, could be adversely impacted by the negotiations and outcomes of the UKs leaving the EU, which is likely to be a lengthy and complicated process. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. 20 If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. We have generally been able to increase or decrease production to meet fluctuations in demand. However, the demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast. We expect that it will become more difficult to forecast demand as we introduce and support a diverse product portfolio, as competition in the market for our products intensifies and as the markets for some of our products mature. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand could cause the following problems in our operations: If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we would have to rapidly increase production. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough to meet unexpected demand. Rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. We depend on our suppliers, some of which are the sole source for specific components, and our production would be seriously harmed if these suppliers are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors and electroluminescent panels, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The cost, quality and availability of components are essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. Certain application-specific integrated circuits incorporating our proprietary designs are manufactured for us by sole source suppliers. Alternative sources may not be currently available for these sole source components. In the past we have experienced shortages of certain components. In addition, if there are shortages in supply of components, the costs of such components may rise. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis and if we are unable to obtain an alternative source or if the price of the alternative source is prohibitive, or if the costs of components rise, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins in some of our segments have declined in recent years and could further decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of factors, including product mix, competition and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that products life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 21 Changes in our United States federal income tax classification could result in adverse tax consequences to our shareholders. We do not believe that we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a passive foreign investment company. However, because the passive foreign investment company determination is made annually based on whether the companys income or assets meet certain thresholds as determined under United States federal tax principles which are based on facts and circumstances that may be beyond our control, we cannot assure that we will not become a passive foreign investment company in the future. If we are a passive foreign investment company in any year, then any of our shareholders that is a United States person could be liable to pay tax on their pro rata share of our income plus an interest charge upon some distributions by us or when that shareholder sells our common shares at a gain. Further, if we are classified as a passive foreign investment company in any year in which a United States person is a shareholder, we generally will continue to be treated as a passive foreign investment company with respect to such shareholder in all succeeding years, regardless of whether we continue to satisfy the income or asset tests mentioned above. We do not believe that we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes. We do not expect to become a CFC. The CFC determination is made daily based on whether the United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Companys shares qualify as United States shareholders. Currently the Company has two shareholders that qualify as United States shareholders owning greater than ten percent of the voting power, totaling 36% of the outstanding shares. Thus, the addition of even one additional ten percent or greater United States shareholder could result in classification as a CFC and subject all such holders to significant tax consequences. If the Company were to be classified as a CFC for an uninterrupted thirty-day period in any year, the Companys shareholders that qualify as United States shareholders could be liable to pay US income tax at ordinary income tax rates on their pro-rata share of certain categories of the Companys income for the period in which the Company is classified as a CFC. As the Company cannot control the ownership of the Companys stock nor can the Company control which shareholders participate in the Companys stock buyback program, ownership changes could result that create United States shareholders which increase the risk of Garmin being treated as a CFC. 22 We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Our principal manufacturing facilities, where we manufacture most of our consumer products, are located in Taiwan. Relations between Taiwan and the Peoples Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, and other factors affecting the political or economic conditions of Taiwan in the future could materially affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. The PRC asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations have been established during recent years between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. Deviations from the "one-China" policy could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could adversely affect our operations in Taiwan in the future. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. From time to time we receive letters alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. 23 We may become subject to significant product liability costs. If our aviation products malfunction or contain errors or defects, airplane collisions or crashes could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. Malfunctions or errors or defects in our marine navigational products could cause boats to run aground or cause other wreckage, personal injury or death. If our automotive or marine products contain defects or errors in the mapping supplied by third-party map providers or if our users do not heed our warnings about the proper use of these products, collisions or accidents could occur resulting in property damage, personal injury or death. If any of these events occurs, we could be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable which, if not expected, could harm our results of operations and financial condition. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other customer data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, information security, and data protection, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users fitness-related data and personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Due to the volume and types of the personal information and data we manage and the nature of our products, the security features of our platform and information systems are critical. If our security measures or applications are breached, disrupted or fail, unauthorized persons may be able to obtain access to user data. If we or our third-party service providers, business partners, or third-party apps with which our users choose to share their Garmin data were to experience a breach, disruption or failure of systems compromising our users data or the media suggested that our security measures or those of our third-party service providers were insufficient, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, use of our products and services could decrease, and we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation, and regulatory proceedings. Depending on the nature of the information compromised, in the event of a data breach, disruption or other unauthorized access to our user data, we may also have obligations to notify users about the incident and we may need to provide some form of remedy for the individuals affected by the incident. A growing number of legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification requirements in the event of unauthorized access to or acquisition of certain types of personal data. Such breach notification laws continue to evolve and may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another. Complying with these obligations could cause us to incur substantial costs and could increase negative publicity surrounding any incident that compromises user data. Our users may also accidentally disclose or lose control of their passwords, creating the perception that our systems or those of our third-party service providers are not secure against third-party access. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as vendors, business partners, service providers, or developers, violate applicable laws, agreements, or our policies, such violations may also put our users information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. While we maintain insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. 24 Regulatory authorities around the world are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection, and a newly adopted data protection regulation in the E.U. will go into effect in May 2018. In addition, the interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere are sometimes uncertain and in flux. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our interpretation and data practices. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, this could result in an order requiring that we change our data practices, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Security breaches and other disruptions, including as a result of cyber attacks, may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In the ordinary course of our business, we electronically maintain sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our customers and suppliers, and some personally identifiable information of our customers and employees, in our facilities and on our networks. The secure processing, maintenance and transmission of this information is important to our operations. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of our vendors could result in significant data losses or theft of our customers' or our employees' intellectual property, proprietary business information or personally identifiable information. A cybersecurity breach could negatively affect our reputation as a trusted product and service provider by adversely affecting the market's perception of the security or reliability of our products or services. We have technology and processes in place to detect and respond to data security incidents. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventive measures. In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through fraud, trickery or other forms of deceiving our customers and employees. Accordingly, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate security barriers or other preventative measures, or if such measures are implemented, and even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors may still occur. It is virtually impossible for us to entirely mitigate this risk. A party, whether internal or external, who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate information. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to train employees, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Our technology errors and omissions insurance may not protect against all of the costs, liabilities, and other adverse effects arising from a security breach or system failure. If we fail to reasonably maintain the security of confidential information, we may suffer significant reputational and financial losses and our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition, and liquidity may be adversely affected. In addition, a system breach could result in other negative consequences, including disruption of internal operations, and may subject us to private litigation, government investigations, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. We depend on third party licensors for the digital map data contained in our auto products, and our business and/or gross margins could be harmed if we become unable to continue licensing such mapping data or if the royalty costs for such data rise. We license digital mapping data for use in our products from various sources. There are only a limited number of suppliers of mapping data for each geographical region. The two largest digital map suppliers are HERE (formerly known as NAVTEQ) and TomTom N.V. HERE is owned by Here Acquisition B.V. (a consortium of Daimler AG, BMW AG and Audi AG). Here Acquisition B.V. and TomTom N.V. are also competitors of Garmin. Although we do not foresee difficulty in continuing to license data at reasonable pricing due to a long term license agreement between Garmin and HERE extending through 2024, if we are unable to continue licensing such mapping data and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if the nature of our relationships with HERE changes detrimentally, our ability to supply mapping data for use in our products would be seriously harmed. 25 Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis could harm our business. We have certain products, especially in our aviation segment, that are subject to governmental and similar certifications before they can be sold. For example, FAA certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted, and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our business may suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing and administrative personnel. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position may be difficult. For example, in some recent years there has been a nationwide shortage of qualified engineers in the United States who are necessary for us to design and develop new products, and therefore, it has sometimes been challenging to recruit such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to maintain and expand our business. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our stock could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase research and development costs, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been weaker in the first quarter of each fiscal year as our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. Sales of certain of our fitness, outdoor, marine and automotive products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season and travel season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. In addition, we attempt to time our new product releases to coincide with relatively higher consumer spending in the second and fourth fiscal quarters, which contributes to these seasonal variations. 26 We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. In particular, our dealers and distributors maintain significant levels of our products in their inventories. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, complete and integrate such transactions. We intend to evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and managements attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate internal controls, compliance under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other corporate governance matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. A shut down of Federal Aviation Administration operations would harm our business. Any failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in any shut down of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Such delays could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 27 Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System. The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. The satellites were originally designed to have lives of 7.5 years and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. However, of the current deployment of satellites in place, some have been operating for more than 20 years. To repair damaged or malfunctioning satellites is currently not economically feasible. If a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of the GPS system and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. GPS satellites and ground control segments are being modernized. GPS modernization software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and GPS were no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS), Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. Any of the foregoing factors could affect the willingness of buyers of our products to select Global Positioning System-based products instead of products based on competing technologies. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. Acts of war or acts of terrorism, especially any directed at the GPS signals, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. The threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Any reallocation or repurposing of radio frequency spectrum could cause harmful interference with the reception of Global Positioning System signals. This interference could harm our business. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Governments Global Positioning System satellites. The Global Positioning System operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. 28 Any ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Various regulatory and legislative measures to address greenhouse gas emissions are in different phases of implementation or discussion. In the aftermath of its 2009 endangerment finding that greenhouse gas emissions pose a threat to human health and welfare, the Environmental Protection Agency has begun to regulate greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. At the federal legislative level, Congressional passage of legislation adopting some form of federal mandatory greenhouse gas emission reduction, such as a nationwide cap-and-trade program, does not appear likely at this time, although it could be adopted at a future date. It is also possible that the U.S. Congress may pass alternative climate change bills that do not mandate a nationwide cap-and-trade program and instead focus on promoting renewable energy and energy efficiency, which could increase the cost of doing business . Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Risks Relating to Our Shares The volatility of our stock price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our common shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2016, the closing price of our common shares ranged from a low of $32.29 to a high of $55.75. A variety of factors could cause the price of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in interest rates and global currency exchange rates; announcements of technological innovations; product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates; developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. 29 In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 18, 2017, current members and former members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with members of their families and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 41.36% of our outstanding common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law allows our shareholders acting at a shareholders meeting to authorize share capital that can be issued by the board of directors without approval of a shareholders meeting, but this authorization is limited to 50% of the existing registered share capital and must be renewed at a shareholders meeting at least every two years for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions or repurchase shares without subjecting our shareholders Swiss withholding tax. If we are unable to make distributions, if any, through a reduction of par value or to pay dividends, if any, out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, then any dividends paid by us will generally be subject to a Swiss federal withholding tax at a rate of 35%. Over the long term, the amount of par value and qualifying capital contribution reserves available for us to use for par value reductions or dividends will be limited. The withholding tax must be withheld from the gross distribution and paid to the Swiss Federal Tax Administration. A U.S. holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting stock, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a reduction in par value or a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, that we will be able to meet the other legal requirements for a reduction in par value, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of qualifying capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to make a distribution through a reduction in par value or to pay a dividend out of qualifying capital contribution reserves, we may not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes 30 Under current Swiss tax law, repurchases of shares for the purposes of capital reduction are treated as a partial liquidation subject to 35% Swiss withholding tax on the difference between the par value and the repurchase price. However, the portion of the repurchase price that is attributed to qualifying capital contribution reserves of the shares repurchased will not be subject to the Swiss withholding tax. Therefore, repurchase of our own shares further limits the amount of qualifying capital reserves available for distributions to shareholders free of Swiss withholding taxes. No partial liquidation treatment applies and no withholding tax is triggered if the shares are not repurchased for cancellation but held by us as treasury shares to the extent sufficient qualifying capital reserves are available. However, should we not resell such treasury shares within six years and there is not sufficient qualifying capital contribution reserves, the withholding tax becomes due at the end of the six-year period. We may follow a share repurchase process for future share repurchases, if any, similar to a "second trading line" on the SIX Swiss Exchange in which Swiss institutional investors buy shares on the open market and sell these shares to us and are generally able to receive a refund of the Swiss withholding tax. However, if we are unable to use this process successfully, we may not be able to repurchase shares for the purposes of capital reduction without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes if and to the extent that the repurchase of shares is made out of retained earnings or other taxable reserves. No withholding tax would be applicable if and to the extent that qualifying capital contribution reserves are attributable to the share repurchase. We have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. Under Swiss law we have certain limitations on our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares. We and our subsidiaries may only repurchase and hold our own shares to the extent that sufficient freely distributable reserves (including contributed surplus as determined for Swiss tax and statutory purposes) are available. The aggregate par value of our registered shares held by us and our subsidiaries may not exceed 10% of our registered share capital. We may repurchase our registered shares beyond the statutory limit of 10%, however, if our share-holders have adopted a resolution at a general meeting of shareholders authorizing the board of directors to repurchase registered shares in an amount in excess of 10% and the repurchased shares are dedicated for cancellation. Our ability to repurchase and hold our own shares is a significant component of our capital management and shareholder return practices that we believe is important to our shareholders, and any restriction on our ability to repurchase our shares could make our stock less attractive to investors. As mentioned previously, we do not believe that we, or any of our United States or non-United States subsidiaries, are currently a Controlled Foreign Corporation (CFC) for United States federal income tax purposes. However, the repurchase of the Companys shares reduces the number of shares outstanding which is the basis for determining the ownership percentages for determination of whether the United States shareholders own more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company. Only United States persons that own ten percent or more of the voting power of the Companys shares qualify as United States shareholders. We may be limited in the number of shares we repurchase due to United States shareholders holding percentages. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Item 2. Properties The following are the principal properties owned or leased by the Company and its subsidiaries: Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. occupy facilities of approximately 1,215,000 square feet on approximately 59 acres in Olathe, Kansas, where the majority of product design and development work is conducted, the majority of aviation panel-mount products are manufactured and products are warehoused, distributed, and supported for North, Central and South America. Garmin International, Inc. has also broken ground on an expansion project on that land, which will include an approximately 720,000 square foot manufacturing and distribution center. The second phase of the expansion will include renovation of the existing warehouse and manufacturing center into a research and development facility and supporting office space. Garmins subsidiary, Garmin Realty, LLC also owns an additional 34 acres of land in Olathe for expansion. In connection with the bond financings for the facility in Olathe and the expansions of that facility, the City of Olathe holds the legal title to the Olathe facility, which is leased to Garmins subsidiaries by the City. Upon the payment in full of the outstanding bonds, the City of Olathe is obligated to transfer title to Garmins subsidiaries for the aggregate sum of $200. Garmin International, Inc. has purchased all the outstanding bonds and will hold the bonds until maturity in order to benefit from property tax abatement. Garmin Corporation owns and occupies 247,000 and 95,000 square foot facilities in Xizhi Dist., New Taipei City, Taiwan, a 224,000 square foot facility in Jhongli, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan, and a 576,000 square foot facility in LinKou, Tao-Yang County, Taiwan. In these facilities, Garmin Corporation manufactures most of Garmins consumer and portable aviation products and warehouses, markets and supports products for the Pacific Rim countries. Garmin China Yangzhou Co., Ltd. leases an approximately 86,000 square foot manufacturing facility in Yangzhou, Jiangsu, Peoples Republic of China. Garmin AT, Inc. leases approximately 18 acres of land in Salem, Oregon under a ground lease. This ground lease expires in 2030, but Garmin AT, Inc. has the option to extend the ground lease until 2050. Garmin AT, Inc. owns and occupies a 115,000 square foot facility for office, development and manufacturing use and a 33,000 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land. Garmin AT, Inc. also owns and occupies an additional 66,000 square foot facility on the same property for Garmins West Coast customer support call center and for research and development activities. Garmin International, Inc. owns and occupies an approximate 60,000 square foot facility in Chandler, Arizona, used as office space. Garmin International, Inc. leases 148,000 square feet of land at New Century Airport in Gardner, Kansas under a ground lease which expires in 2026. Garmin International, Inc. owns and occupies a 47,000 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility on this land which is used in development and certification of aviation products. Garmin International, Inc. owns a leasehold interest in an additional 53,000 square foot aircraft hangar, flight test and certification facility at New Century Airport in Gardner, which is also used in development and certification of aviation products. Garmin Wrzburg GmbH leases approximately 43,000 square feet in Wrzburg, Germany for office and research and development activities. Garmin Cluj S.R.L. leases 28,000 square feet in Cluj, Romania for research and development activities. Various Garmin subsidiaries lease an additional: (i) 49,000 square feet of office space in Olathe, Kansas for a call center operation; (ii) approximately 38,000 square feet of office space in Yarmouth, Maine, for office and development use related to the business Garmin acquired from DeLorme in 2016; and (iii) approximately 33,000 square feet of office space in Tucson, Arizona, used as offices and for research and development. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. owns and occupies a 155,000 square foot building located in Totton, Southampton, England, used as offices and a distribution facility. 32 Item 3. Legal Proceedings Andrea Katz, on behalf of herself and all others similarly situated, v. Garmin Ltd. and Garmin International, Inc. On December 18, 2013, a purported class action lawsuit was filed against Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin Ltd. in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois. The lead plaintiff was Andrea Katz, on behalf of herself and all others similarly situated. The class of plaintiffs that Andrea Katz purported to represent includes all individuals who purchased any model of Forerunner watch in the State of Illinois and the United States. Plaintiff asserted claims for breach of contract, breach of express warranty, breach of implied warranties, negligence, negligent misrepresentation, and violations of Illinois statutory law. Plaintiff alleged that Forerunner watch bands have an unacceptable rate of failure in that they detach from the watch. Plaintiff sought compensatory and punitive damages, prejudgment interest, costs, and attorneys fees, and injunctive relief. On January 29, 2014 the court dismissed the lawsuit without prejudice. On January 30, 2014, the plaintiff re-filed the lawsuit with the same claims for relief as the earlier action and adding an additional claim for unjust enrichment. On February 4, 2014, the court ordered the case to be transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Utah. The plaintiff voluntarily dismissed the case filed in Illinois and, on March 6, 2014, she refiled the lawsuit in the District Court for the District of Utah with the same claims, but with additional claims for violations of the Utah Consumers Sales Practice Act, Lanham Act, and Utah Truth in Advertising Act. The relief she requested is the same. On March 31, 2014, Garmin filed a motion to transfer the venue of the Utah action back to the Northern District of Illinois. On October 21, 2014, the United States District Court for the District of Utah denied Garmins motion to transfer venue. On December 26, 2014, Garmin filed a motion to dismiss certain counts of the complaint. On April 16, 2015 the court granted Garmins motion in part and dismissed with prejudice (i) Mr. Katzs (but not Mrs. Katzs) claim for breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, (ii) the plaintiffs Lanham Act claim, (iii) the plaintiffs negligence claim and (iv) the plaintiffs negligent misrepresentation claim. No class was certified. The parties agreed to settle the lawsuit in consideration of a settlement under which Garmin would pay the plaintiffs counsel $385,000 in attorneys fees and would repair or replace Forerunner 610 watchbands and watches at no cost provided that a request is made within twelve months of the date of the final approval of the settlement by the court. On November 3, 2016 the court granted final approval of the settlement. In the Matter of Certain Marine Sonar Imaging Devices, Including Downscan and Sidescan Devices, Products Containing the Same, and Components Thereof On June 9, 2014 Navico Inc. and Navico Holding AS filed a complaint with the United States International Trade Commission (ITC) against Garmin International, Inc., Garmin North America, Inc., Garmin USA, Inc. and Garmin (Asia) Corporation (collectively Garmin) alleging a violation of Section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, through alleged infringement by Garmin of U.S. Patents 8,300,499 (the 499 patent); 8,305,840 (the 840 patent); and 8,605,550 (the 550 patent). On July 9, 2014 the ITC instituted an investigation pursuant to the complaint. Garmin believes that each asserted claim of the 499 patent, the 840 patent, and the 550 patent is invalid and/or not infringed. A trial hearing before the Administrative Law Judge was held on March 18 through March 24, 2015. The Administrative Law Judge issued his initial determination on July 2, 2015 finding that the asserted claims of the 840, 499 and 550 patents are valid but that there is no infringement by Garmin of the 840 patent, the 499 patent or the 550 patent. On December 1, 2015 the ITC issued a Final Determination finding that most of the asserted claims of the 840, 499 and 550 patents are valid and that there is no infringement by Garmin of the 499 patent but that there is infringement by Garmin of the 840 and 550 patents. The ITC held that claims 1, 7, 12, 13, and 57 of the 550 patent were invalid as obvious. The ITC issued a limited exclusion order prohibiting the import into the USA of infringing products and cease and desist orders prohibiting certain domestic activities relating to the infringing products. On January 27, 2016, Navico filed a petition for review of the ITCs Final Determination in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (the Federal Circuit). On February 10, 2016, Garmin filed with the Federal Circuit: (i) a motion to intervene in Navico's appeal, and (ii) a petition for review of the abovementioned Final Determination. Garmin is seeking review of all issues appealable in the case, including the portions of the Final Determination finding infringement of the 840 and 550 patents. On February 16, 2016 Navico filed a request that the ITC initiate an enforcement proceeding in connection with alleged violations by Garmin of the ITCs cease and desist orders. On June 3, 2016 Navico withdrew, without prejudice, its request that the ITC initiate an enforcement proceeding. On May 20, 2016 Navico filed a petition for modification of the limited exclusion order issued by the ITC. On June 1, 2016 Garmin filed its opposition to Navicos petition for modification of the limited exclusion order. On June 9, 2016 Navico filed a reply to Garmins opposition. On June 10, 2016 Navico filed a motion for leave to file said reply. On June 20, 2016 Garmin filed an opposition to Navicos motion for leave to file a reply. On August 18, 2016 the International Trade Commission (ITC) granted Navicos petition for modification of the limited exclusion order and issued a modified limited exclusion order. On August 24, 2016 Garmin filed with the ITC a motion to stay the modified limited exclusion order pending Garmins appeal of this order. On August 29, 2016 Garmin filed a notice of appeal against the ITCs modified limited exclusion order to the Federal Circuit. On August 30, 2016 Garmin filed with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals a motion for an interim stay of the ITCs modified exclusion order and a stay of such order pending resolution of Garmins appeal. On August 30, 2016 Garmin also filed with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals a motion to expedite the schedule for Garmins motion for an interim stay of the ITCs modified exclusion order and a stay of such order pending resolution of Garmins appeal and a motion for an expedited schedule for Garmins appeal against the modified limited exclusion order. On September 6, 2016 Navico filed with the ITC its opposition to Garmins motion for a stay of the modified limited exclusion order. On September 6, 2016 Navico filed with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals its opposition to Garmins motion to expedite the schedule for Garmins motion for an interim stay of the ITCs modified exclusion order and a stay of such order pending resolution of Garmins appeal and its opposition to Garmins motion for an expedited schedule for Garmins appeal against the modified limited exclusion order. On September 6, 2016 the ITC filed with the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals its opposition to Garmins motion for an interim stay of the ITCs modified exclusion order and a stay of such order pending resolution of Garmins appeal and its opposition to Garmins motion for an expedited schedule for Garmins appeal against the modified limited exclusion order. On September 21, 2016 the Federal Circuit Court of Appeals granted Garmins motion to expedite the schedule for Garmins appeal against the modified limited exclusion order. On October 20, 2016, the ITC denied Garmins motion to stay the modified limited exclusion order pending appeal. On October 21, 2016, the Federal Circuit denied Garmins motion to stay the modified limited exclusion order pending appeal. On January 10, 2017 the Federal Circuit held hearings on (1) Navicos petition for review of the ITCs Final Determination, (2) Garmins petition for review of the ITCs Final Determination, and (3) Garmins appeal against the ITCs modification of the limited exclusion order. 33 On August 30, 2016, Navico filed a new request that the ITC initiate an enforcement proceeding for alleged violations by Garmin of the cease and desist orders issued by the ITC. The ITC initiated that proceeding on October 11, 2016. On January 6, 2017, in connection with this proceeding, Garmin filed a motion for summary determination of no infringement by its tilted DownV sonar products. Also on January 6, 2017 Navico and Garmin filed a joint stipulation regarding representative products in which, among other things, Navico stated that it is not asserting infringement of ClearV systems that include a ClearV transducer and does not assert that ClearV systems are covered by the ITCs cease and desist orders. On January 18, 2017 Navico filed its opposition to Garmins motion for summary determination of no infringement by its tilted DownV sonar products. On January 25, 2017 Garmin filed a motion for leave to file a reply in support of its motion for summary determination. On January 31, 2017 Navico filed an opposition to Garmins motion for leave to file a reply in support of its motion for summary determination. The Administrative Law Judge has scheduled a hearing in the enforcement proceeding for March 6 and 7, 2017. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. Navico Inc. And Navico Holding AS v. Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. On June 4, 2014 Navico Inc. and Navico Holding AS filed suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma against Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patents 8,300,499 (the 499 patent); 8,305,840 (the 840 patent); and 8,605,550 (the 550 patent). On October 21, 2014, Garmin filed its answer asserting that each asserted claim of the 499, 840, and 550 patents is invalid and/or not infringed. On September 30, 2015, the court held a hearing on claim construction and the parties await the courts claim construction order. On December 4, 2015 Garmin filed a motion for summary judgment of invalidity on the basis that the asserted claims of the 840 and 550 patents are invalid for failure to comply with the definiteness requirements of 35 U.S.S. 112 and that the asserted claims of 840 and 550 patents are also invalid for failure to comply with the written description requirement of 35 U.S.C. 112 and for summary judgment of non-infringement on the basis that there is no infringement by Garmin of the asserted claims of the 499 patent. Garmin also filed a motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of all asserted patents for its second generation DownV sonar design. On December 4, 2015 Navico filed a motion for partial summary judgment of infringement on the basis that Garmin infringes certain claims of the 840 and 550 patents, and for summary judgment of validity on the basis that the asserted claims of the 840 patent are not anticipated by certain prior art references and that the asserted claims of the 840 and 550 patents include an adequate written description. On January 15, 2016 the court issued an order staying this lawsuit pending the final determination of any appeal filed with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit concerning the final determination of the United States International Trade Commission in In the Matter of Certain Marine Sonar Imaging Devices, Including Downscan and Sidescan Devices, Products Containing the Same, and Components Thereof . Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this lawsuit. 34 Navico Inc. And Navico Holding AS v. Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. On March 4, 2016, Navico Inc. and Navico Holding AS filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, against Garmin International, Inc. and Garmin USA, Inc. (collectively, Garmin) alleging infringement of U.S. Patents 9,223,022 (the 022 patent) and 9,244,168 (the 168 patent). On April 1, 2016 Garmin filed its answer asserting that each asserted claim of the 022 and 168 patents is invalid and/or not infringed and that the 022 and 168 patents are unenforceable due to inequitable conduct by Navicos representatives during the prosecution of these patents. On April 1, 2016 Garmin also filed a motion to transfer this action to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma. The court held a claim construction hearing on February 3, 2017 and the trial is scheduled to commence on September 5, 2017. On November 18, 2016, Navico amended its complaint to allege false advertising claims under the Lanham Act arising from Garmins ClearV advertising materials. On February 6, 2017 the court denied Garmins motion to transfer this action to the United States District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Pioneer Corporation v. Iiyonet Inc. On October 2, 2014, Pioneer Corporation filed suit in the Tokyo District Court in Japan against Iiyonet Inc. alleging certain Garmin consumer products infringe Japanese Patent No. 3,442,138 (the 138 patent). Iiyonet Inc. is the Garmin distributor in Japan for consumer products and was acquired by Garmin in September 2016. Garmin intervened in this action on December 19, 2014, and has filed an answer asserting that the asserted claim of the 138 patent is invalid and/or not infringed. On February 25, 2015, Garmin filed a request for Trial of Invalidation for the 138 patent before the Japanese Patent Office. Preparatory oral arguments were held before the Tokyo District Court on March 9, 2015. A second round of preparatory oral arguments was held before the Tokyo District Court on May 21, 2015. The parties filed multiple rounds of preparatory documents with the Tokyo District Court between May 21, 2015, and November 30, 2015. On October 9, 2015, the Japanese Patent Office issued an Advanced Notice of Trial Decision finding that Pioneers asserted claims are invalid as overbroad but not invalid due to novelty or inventive step. On April 8, 2016, the Japanese Patent Office issued a Trial Decision finding that Pioneers asserted claims, as amended, are valid. Garmin has appealed the Japanese Patent Offices Trial Decision. On August 31, 2016 the Tokyo District Court dismissed all of Pioneers claims and held that Garmins products do not infringe any of Pioneers asserted patents. On September 14, 2016 Pioneer filed an appeal from this ruling to the IP High Court of Japan. The IP High Court has scheduled a hearing for April 25, 2017. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. PulseOn Oy v. Garmin (Europe) Ltd. On November 11, 2016, PulseOn Oy filed suit in the Patents Court in London, England, against Garmin (Europe) Ltd. alleging infringement of alleged UK unregistered design rights and Registered European Community Design No. 002473769-0004 (the 0004 Design) and Registered European Community Design No. 002473769-0005 (the 0005 Design) by certain Garmin products with wrist-worn heart rate monitors. On January 6, 2017 Garmin filed an application for an order that PulseOn provide a response to a Request for Further Information which Garmin served on PulseOn on December 21, 2016. On January 13, 2017 Garmin filed an application for security for costs. The court has scheduled a hearing on these applications on February 24, 2016. On January 16, 2017 Garmin served its Defence and Counterclaim denying infringement of the UK unregistered design rights and the 0004 Design and the 0005 Design and counterclaiming for revocation of the 0004 Design and the 0005 Design as being invalid. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 35 Visteon Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon Technologies LLC v. Garmin International, Inc. On February 10, 2010, Visteon Global Technologies, Inc. and Visteon Technologies LLC filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, against Garmin International, Inc. alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 5,544,060 (the 060 patent), U.S. Patent No. 5,654,892 (the 892 patent), U.S. Patent No. 5,832,408 (the 408 patent), U.S. Patent No 5,987,375 (the 375 patent) and U.S. Patent No 6,097,316 (the 316 patent). On May 17, 2010, Garmin filed its answer asserting that each claim of the 060 patent, the 892 patent, the 408 patent and the 375 patent is invalid and/or not infringed. On April 12, 2011, the special master appointed by the court held a claim construction hearing. On December 12, 2011, the court issued an order adopting the special masters report construing the claims of the patents-in-suit. On September 14, 2012, Garmin filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office petitions for ex parte reexamination of the 408 patent and the 060 patent as being anticipated and obvious in view of the prior art. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office subsequently granted Garmins requests for ex parte reexaminations and initially rejected all identified claims. On April 15, 2013, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued a reexamination certificate confirming the patentability of the challenged claims of the 060 patent. On September 16, 2013, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office issued a first reexamination certification canceling some of the challenged claims of the 408 patent and confirming the patentability of other claims. On November 30, 2012, Garmin filed motions for summary judgment of non-infringement and/or invalidity for the 892, 316, and 375 patents. Visteon filed its own motions for summary judgment of infringement of the 408 patent and validity, under section 112, of the 375 and 060 patents. On February 4, 2013, the summary judgment motions were referred to the special master for consideration. On May 23, 2014 the special master held a hearing on the summary judgment motions. Prior to the hearing Visteon dropped its claim that Garmin infringes the 316 patent. On September 17, 2014, the special master issued a report recommending that Garmins motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the 375 patent be granted, Visteons motion for summary judgment of validity under section 112 of the 375 and 060 patents be granted, and that all other motions for summary judgment be denied. On March 18, 2015, the court issued an order granting Garmins motion for summary judgment of non-infringement of the 375 patent, denying Visteons motion for summary judgment as to the 408 patent, rejecting the Special Masters recommendation to grant Visteons motion for summary judgment as to Garmins Section 112 defenses and denying Visteons motion for summary judgment as to Garmins Section 112 defenses, denying Garmins motion for summary judgment as to the 892 patent and dismissing as withdrawn Visteons claim of infringement of the 316 patent. On November 21, 2014, Garmin filed a second request for ex parte reexamination of the 408 patent. On March 23, 2015, the U.S. Patent Office issued a non-final office action finding the challenged claims of the 408 patent to be invalid and/or obvious in view of the prior art. On August 18, 2015, the U.S. Patent Office issued a final rejection finding claim 6 to be invalid but finding claims 4-5 to be patentable. On December 18, 2015, Visteon appealed the final rejection of claim 6. The court held a pretrial conference on September 28, 2015. At the pretrial conference, the court referred all pending motions to the special master for consideration. On May 23, 2016 the court also issued an order granting Garmins motion to exclude certain Garmin products from the lawsuit and granting in part Garmins motion to strike certain expert reports of certain of Visteons expert witnesses. On July 13, 2016, the court held a hearing on Garmins motion to exclude testimony of two of Visteons proposed expert witnesses. The court ordered the parties to submit additional briefing after the hearing with arguments based on the testimony provided at the hearing. On August 10, 2016 the Special Master issued a report and recommendations in which he recommended to the Court (a) the denial of two motions in limine filed by Visteon which had sought to exclude certain evidence from being offered at trial by Garmin and (b) the granting of Garmins motion in limine to exclude certain expert testimony concerning alleged infringement of the 892 patent. On September 12, 2016 the Court issued an opinion and order in which it (a) granted Visteons motion in limine to exclude evidence of the fee agreement between Visteon and its counsel, (b) denied Visteons motion in limine to exclude evidence of a certain license agreement, and (c) denied Visteons motion to exclude Garmins expert witness on damages from testifying as to damages on behalf of Garmin. On October 14, 2016 the Court issued an order granting Garmins motion to exclude testimony of two of Visteons expert witnesses, including the testimony of Visteons expert witness as to damages. On October 20, 2016, the Court adopted the Special Masters findings regarding the denied motions in limine but reversed the Special Masters finding on the 892 patent to allow Visteon to present use survey evidence. No trial date has yet been set nor has any date been set for the special masters review. Although there can be no assurance that an unfavorable outcome of this litigation would not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, liquidity or financial position, Garmin believes that the claims in this lawsuit are without merit and intends to vigorously defend this action. 36 In the normal course of business, the Company and its subsidiaries are parties to various legal claims, actions, and complaints, including matters involving patent infringement, other intellectual property, product liability, customer claims and various other risks. It is not possible to predict with certainty whether or not the Company and its subsidiaries will ultimately be successful in any of these legal matters, or if not, what the impact might be. However, the Companys management does not expect that the results in any of these legal proceedings will have a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations, financial position or cash flows. The Company settled or resolved certain matters during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016 that did not individually or in the aggregate have a material impact on the Companys financial condition or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosure None. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K and instruction 3 to paragraph (b) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K, the following list is included as an unnumbered Item in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K in lieu of being included in the Companys Definitive Proxy Statement in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for June 9, 2017. Dr. Min H. Kao , age 68, has served as Executive Chairman of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013 and was previously Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2004 to December 2012 and Co-Chairman of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to August 2004. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. from August 2002 to December 2012 and previously served as Co-Chief Executive Officer from August 2000 to August 2002. Dr. Kao served as a director and officer of various subsidiaries of the Company from August 1990 until January 2013. Dr. Kao holds Ph.D. and MS degrees in Electrical Engineering from the University of Tennessee and a BS degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University. Clifton A. Pemble , age 51, has served as a director of Garmin Ltd. since August 2004. He has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Garmin Ltd. since January 2013. Previously, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Garmin Ltd. from October 2007 to December 2012, and is currently maintaining the role of principal operating officer. Previously, he was Vice President, Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2005 to October 2007, Director of Engineering of Garmin International, Inc. from 2003 to 2005, Software Engineering Manager of Garmin International, Inc. from 1995 to 2002, and a Software Engineer with Garmin International, Inc. from 1989 to 1995. Mr. Pemble has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since August 2003. Mr. Pemble holds BA degrees in Mathematics and Computer Science from MidAmerica Nazarene University. 37 Douglas G. Boessen , age 54, has served as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of Garmin Ltd. since July 2014. He previously served as Chief Financial Officer of EiKO Global, LLC from September 2013 to May 2014, as well as Collective Brands, Inc. from November 1997 to November 2012. Mr. Boessen has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since July 2014. Mr. Boessen is a certified public accountant and holds a BS degree in Business from the University of Central Missouri and is a graduate of the executive development program at Northwestern Universitys Kellogg Graduate School of Management. Andrew R. Etkind , age 61, has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. since June 2009. He was previously General Counsel and Secretary of Garmin Ltd. from August 2000 to June 2009. He has been Vice President and General Counsel of Garmin International, Inc. since July 2007, General Counsel since February 1998, and Secretary since October 1998. Mr. Etkind has served as a director and officer of various Garmin subsidiaries since December 2001. Mr. Etkind holds BA, MA and LLM degrees from Cambridge University, England and a JD degree from the University of Michigan Law School. All executive officers are elected by and serve at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. None of the executive officers have an employment agreement with the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between the executive officers and any other person pursuant to which he or she was or is to be selected as an officer. There is no family relationship among any of the executive officers. Dr. Min H. Kao is the brother of Ruey-Jeng Kao, who is a supervisor of Garmin Corporation, Garmins Taiwan subsidiary, who serves as an ex-officio member of Garmin Corporations Board of Directors. PART II Item 5. Market for the Companys Common Shares, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Garmins common shares have traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC under the symbol GRMN since its initial public offering on December 8, 2000 (the IPO). As of February 3, 2017, there were 182 shareholders of record. The high and low daily closing prices of Garmins common shares as reported on the Nasdaq Stock Market for each fiscal quarter of fiscal years 2016 and 2015 was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2016 December 26, 2015 High Low High Low First Quarter $ 41.44 $ 32.29 $ 56.81 $ 47.47 Second Quarter $ 43.88 $ 39.10 $ 48.13 $ 44.21 Third Quarter $ 55.75 $ 39.68 $ 46.40 $ 35.45 Fourth Quarter $ 52.87 $ 47.01 $ 38.27 $ 32.28 On June 10, 2016, the shareholders approved a dividend of $2.04 per share out of Garmins general reserves from capital contribution payable in four equal installments. The dates determined by the Board were as follows: Dividend Date Record Date $s per share June 30, 2016 June 16, 2016 $ 0.51 September 30, 2016 September 15, 2016 $ 0.51 December 30, 2016 December 14, 2016 $ 0.51 March 31, 2017 March 15, 2017 $ 0.51 38 The Company paid the 2016 dividends in accordance with the schedule above and expects to pay the March 31, 2017 dividend. In addition, Garmin currently expects to pay a quarterly cash dividend in the remaining three quarters of 2017. The decision of whether to pay a dividend and the amount of the dividend will be voted on by the Companys shareholders as required by Swiss law. On June 5, 2015, the shareholders approved a dividend of $2.04 per share (of which $1.02 was paid in the Companys 2015 fiscal year) payable in four equal installments on dates determined by the Board of Directors. The dates determined by the Board were as follows: Dividend Date Record Date $s per share June 30, 2015 June 16, 2015 $ 0.51 September 30, 2015 September 15, 2015 $ 0.51 December 31, 2015 December 15, 2015 $ 0.51 March 31, 2016 March 16, 2016 $ 0.51 The Board of Directors approved a share repurchase program on February 13, 2015, authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $300 million of the Companys shares as market and business conditions warrant. The share repurchase authorization expires on December 31, 2017. See Note 11 for additional information regarding the share repurchase plan. Period Total # of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid Per Share Maximum Number of Shares (or Approx. Dollar Value of Shares in thousands) That May Yet be Purchased Under the Plan Sept 25 - Oct 22, 2016 215,700 $ 48.34 $ 92,940 Oct 23 - Nov 19, 2016 189,377 $ 48.67 $ 83,722 Nov 20 - Dec 31, 2016 167,294 $ 50.02 $ 75,354 Total 572,371 $ 48.94 $ 75,354 We refer you to Item 12 of this report under the caption Equity Compensation Plan Information for certain equity plan information required to be disclosed by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC or subject to Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The graph below matches Garmin Ltd.'s cumulative 5-Year total shareholder return on common stock with the cumulative total returns of the NASDAQ Composite index and the NASDAQ 100 index. The graph tracks the performance of a $100 investment in our common stock and in each index (with the reinvestment of all dividends) from 12/31/2011 to 12/31/2016. 39 12/11 12/12 12/13 12/14 12/15 12/16 Garmin Ltd. 100.00 106.74 126.71 150.02 110.91 151.50 NASDAQ Composite 100.00 116.41 165.47 188.69 200.32 216.54 NASDAQ 100 100.00 119.87 171.55 205.70 230.27 245.74 The stock price performance included in this graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Item 6. Selected Financial Data The following table sets forth selected consolidated financial data of the Company. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2016 and December 26, 2015 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December 31, 2016, December 26, 2015, and December 27, 2014 were derived from the Companys audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto which are included in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated balance sheet data as of December 27, 2014, December 28, 2013, and December 29, 2012 and the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended December 28, 2013 and December 29, 2012 were derived from the Companys audited consolidated financial statements, not included herein. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of the results of future operations and should be read together with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the consolidated financial statements and notes to those statements included in Items 7 and 8 in Part II of this Form 10-K. 40 Years ended (1) Dec. 31, 2016 Dec. 26, 2015 Dec. 27, 2014 Dec. 28, 2013 Dec. 29, 2012 (in thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Data: Net sales $ 3,018,665 $ 2,820,270 $ 2,870,658 $ 2,631,851 $ 2,715,675 Cost of goods sold 1,339,095 1,281,566 1,266,246 1,224,551 1,277,195 Gross profit 1,679,570 1,538,704 1,604,412 1,407,300 1,438,480 Operating expenses: Advertising expense 177,143 167,166 146,633 112,905 138,757 Selling, general and administrative 410,558 394,914 372,032 355,440 369,790 Research and development 467,960 427,043 395,121 364,923 325,773 Total operating expenses 1,055,661 989,123 913,786 833,268 834,320 Operating income 623,909 549,581 690,626 574,032 604,160 Other income, net (2)(3) 5,761 17,606 33,119 79,526 20,368 Income before income taxes 629,670 567,187 723,745 653,558 624,528 Income tax provision (4)(5) 118,856 110,960 359,534 41,146 82,125 Net income $ 510,814 $ 456,227 $ 364,211 $ 612,412 $ 542,403 Net income per share: Basic $ 2.71 $ 2.39 $ 1.89 $ 3.13 $ 2.78 Diluted $ 2.70 $ 2.39 $ 1.88 $ 3.12 $ 2.76 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 188,818 190,631 193,106 195,411 194,909 Diluted 189,343 191,107 194,165 196,341 196,213 Dividends declared per share $ 2.04 $ 2.04 $ 1.92 $ 1.80 $ 1.80 Balance Sheet Data (at end of Period): Cash and cash equivalents $ 846,883 $ 833,070 $ 1,196,268 $ 1,179,149 $ 1,231,180 Marketable securities 1,480,237 1,558,548 1,575,333 1,651,968 1,641,395 Total assets 4,525,133 4,499,391 4,693,303 4,879,603 4,819,124 Total debt - - - - - Total stockholders' equity 3,418,003 3,345,126 3,403,367 3,659,706 3,531,796 (1) Our fiscal year-end is the last Saturday of the calendar year and does not always fall on December 31. All years presented contain 52 weeks excluding Fiscal 2016 which includes 53 weeks. (2) Other income, net mainly consists of gain (loss) on sale of marketable securities, interest income, and foreign currency gain (loss). (3) Includes $31.7 million, $23.5 million, $4.3 million, and $20.0 million of foreign currency losses in 2016, 2015, 2014, and 2012, respectively, and $35.5 million of foreign currency gain in 2013. (4) 2014 includes $72.9 million income tax reserve release due to expiration of certain statutes of limitations or completion of tax audits partially offset by Swiss withholding tax expense due to the release of reserves; 2013 - includes $68.7 million income tax reserve release due to expiration of certain statutes of limitations or completion of tax audits partially offset by Taiwan surtax expense due to the release of reserves (5) Includes a $307.6 million income tax expense in 2014 associated with our inter-company restructuring discussed within Item 7 - Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Comparison of the 52-weeks ended December, 26 2015 and December 27, 2014 41 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments for the periods covered by the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as expects, anticipates, believes or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmins fiscal year is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal year 2016 contains 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks for 2015 and 2014. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Companys fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we," "us," "our" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview We are a leading worldwide provider of navigation, communications and information devices, most of which are enabled by Global Positioning System, or GPS, technology. We operate in five business segments, which serve the marine, outdoor, fitness, auto, and aviation markets. Our segments offer products through our network of subsidiary distributors and independent dealers and distributors. However, the nature of products and types of customers for the five segments can vary significantly. As such, the segments are managed separately. Since our first products were delivered in 1991, we have generated positive income from operations each year and have funded our growth from these profits. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates General Garmins discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Garmins consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires Garmin to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, Garmin evaluates its estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. Garmin bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. 42 For information on each of the following critical accounting policies and/or estimates, refer to the discussion in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as indicated in the table below: Revenue Recognition Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Trade Accounts Receivable Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Loan Receivable Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Warranties Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Inventory Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Long-Lived Assets (including Goodwill) Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Investments Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 3 - Marketable Securities Income Taxes Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 6 - Income Taxes Stock Based Compensation Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies & Note 9 - Stock Compensation Plans Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our retail partners, dealer and distributor network and to original equipment manufacturers. Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Our sales are largely of a consumer nature, and there is a relatively short cycle between order and shipment. Therefore, we believe that backlog levels are not necessarily indicative of our future sales results, and backlog information is not material to the understanding of our business. We typically ship most orders within 72 hours of receipt. Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Sales of our consumer products are generally higher in the fourth quarter, due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, the second quarter, due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Sales of consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation products do not experience much seasonal variation, but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Sales/Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower cost components. We believe that our flexible production model allows our Xizhi, Jhongli, and LinKou manufacturing plants in Taiwan; Yangzhou manufacturing plant in China; and our Olathe, Kansas, and Salem, Oregon manufacturing plants in the U.S. to experience relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan and China than in Olathe and Salem. Sales price variability has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. In the past, prices of our devices sold into the auto market have declined due to market pressures and introduction of new products sold at lower price points. In recent years, pricing has stabilized in auto, allowing for relatively stable gross margins excluding the impact of deferred revenues and costs. The average selling prices of our aviation, outdoor, fitness, and marine products have historically been stable due to product mix and the introduction of more advanced products sold at higher prices. The effect of the sales price differences inherent within the mix of products sold could have a significant impact on our gross profit. 43 Advertising Expense Our advertising expenses consist of costs for media advertising, cooperative advertising with our retail partners, point of sale displays, and sponsorships. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: salaries for sales, marketing and product support personnel; salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; marketing, and other brand building costs; accounting and legal costs; information systems and infrastructure costs; travel and related costs; and occupancy and other overhead costs. Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent salaries for our engineers, costs for high technology components and costs of test equipment used in product and prototype development. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new markets for active lifestyle products. Income Taxes We have experienced a relatively low effective corporate tax rate due to the proportion of our revenue generated by entities in tax jurisdictions with low statutory rates. In particular, the profit entitlement afforded our Swiss-based companies based on their intellectual property rights ownership of our consumer products have contributed to our relatively low effective corporate tax rate. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): 44 53-weeks ended 52-weeks ended 52-weeks ended Dec. 31, Dec. 26, Dec. 27, 2016 2015 2014 Net sales 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of goods sold 44 % 45 % 44 % Gross profit 56 % 55 % 56 % Operating expenses: Advertising 6 % 6 % 5 % Selling, general and administrative 14 % 14 % 13 % Research and development 16 % 15 % 14 % Total operating expenses 35 % 35 % 32 % Operating income 21 % 19 % 24 % Other income, net 0 % 1 % 1 % Income before income taxes 21 % 20 % 25 % Provision for income taxes 4 % 4 % 13 % Net income 17 % 16 % 13 % In 2016 the Company moved action camera related revenue and expenses from the outdoor segment to the auto segment, allowing for alignment and synergies with other camera-based efforts occurring within the auto segment. The overall impact of the move was immaterial. However, action camera related operating results for the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014 have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. The following table sets forth our results of operations through operating income for each of our five segments during the period shown. For each line item in the table, the total of the segments amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income data included in Item 6. 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 Outdoor Fitness Marine Auto Aviation Net sales $ 546,326 $ 818,486 $ 331,947 $ 882,558 $ 439,348 Cost of goods sold 205,822 381,281 148,238 493,811 109,943 Gross profit 340,504 437,205 183,709 388,747 329,405 Advertising expense 31,005 90,871 15,516 33,122 6,629 Selling, general and administrative expenses 77,016 118,753 60,061 127,618 27,110 Research and development expense 48,448 66,985 55,965 125,660 170,902 Total operating expenses 156,469 276,609 131,542 286,400 204,641 Operating income $ 184,035 $ 160,596 $ 52,167 $ 102,347 $ 124,764 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Outdoor Fitness Marine Auto Aviation Net sales $ 411,184 $ 661,599 $ 286,778 $ 1,062,091 $ 398,618 Cost of goods sold 156,306 295,460 128,285 597,611 103,904 Gross profit 254,878 366,139 158,493 464,480 294,714 Advertising expense 24,655 79,737 16,106 40,710 5,958 Selling, general and administrative expenses 54,132 97,809 60,834 157,151 24,988 Research and development expense 37,021 54,019 52,942 130,550 152,511 Total operating expenses 115,808 231,565 129,883 328,411 183,457 Operating income $ 139,070 $ 134,574 $ 28,611 $ 136,069 $ 111,257 52-weeks ended December 27, 2014 Outdoor Fitness Marine Auto Aviation Net sales $ 409,847 $ 568,440 $ 248,371 $ 1,258,085 $ 385,915 Cost of goods sold 143,188 210,153 118,661 688,742 105,502 Gross profit 266,659 358,287 129,710 569,343 280,413 Advertising expense 28,650 52,606 12,353 46,245 6,779 Selling, general and administrative expenses 52,203 75,747 42,975 177,649 23,458 Research and development expense 29,747 39,252 48,150 134,774 143,198 Total operating expenses 110,600 167,605 103,478 358,668 173,435 Operating income $ 156,059 $ 190,682 $ 26,232 $ 210,675 $ 106,978 45 Comparison of 53-Weeks Ended December 31, 2016 and 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2015 Net Sales 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Year over Year Net Sales % of Revenues Net Sales % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 546,326 18 % $ 411,184 15 % $ 135,142 33 % Fitness 818,486 27 % 661,599 23 % 156,887 24 % Marine 331,947 11 % 286,778 10 % 45,169 16 % Auto 882,558 29 % 1,062,091 38 % (179,533 ) -17 % Aviation 439,348 15 % 398,618 14 % 40,730 10 % Total $ 3,018,665 100 % $ 2,820,270 100 % $ 198,395 7 % Net sales increased 7% in 2016 when compared to the year-ago period. All segments had an increase in revenue except for auto. Auto revenue remains the largest portion of our revenue mix at 29% in the 53-weeks ended 2016 compared to 38% in the 52-weeks ended 2015. Total unit sales increased 4% to 16.8 million units in 2016 from 16.2 million units in 2015. Auto segment revenue decreased 17% from the year-ago period, primarily due to the ongoing PND market contraction. Outdoor, fitness, marine, and aviation revenues increased 33%, 24%, 16%, and 10%, respectively, when compared to the year-ago period, primarily due to increases in sales volumes. Growth in outdoor was driven by wearables and the newly acquired DeLorme product lines. The increase in fitness was driven by wearables with Garmin Elevate TM wrist heart rate technology. Our marine segment increased due to growth in chartplotters, fishfinders, and entertainment systems. Aviation revenues increased due to growth in both OEM and aftermarket sales. Cost of Goods Sold 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Year over Year Cost of Goods % of Revenues Cost of Goods % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 205,822 38 % $ 156,306 38 % $ 49,516 32 % Fitness 381,281 47 % 295,460 45 % 85,821 29 % Marine 148,238 45 % 128,285 45 % 19,953 16 % Auto 493,811 56 % 597,611 56 % (103,800 ) -17 % Aviation 109,943 25 % 103,904 26 % 6,039 6 % Total $ 1,339,095 44 % $ 1,281,566 45 % $ 57,529 4 % Cost of goods sold increased 4% in absolute dollars for the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 when compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. In the auto segment, the cost of goods decline was largely consistent with the segment revenue decline. In the outdoor and fitness segments, the increases of 32% and 29% in cost of goods sold, respectively, primarily reflect strong volume growth. In the marine and aviation segments, the increases of 16% and 6%, respectively, primarily reflect volume growth. 46 Gross Profit 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Year over Year Gross Profit % of Revenues Gross Profit % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 340,504 62 % $ 254,878 62 % $ 85,626 34 % Fitness 437,205 53 % 366,139 55 % 71,066 19 % Marine 183,709 55 % 158,493 55 % 25,216 16 % Auto 388,747 44 % 464,480 44 % (75,733 ) -16 % Aviation 329,405 75 % 294,714 74 % 34,691 12 % Total $ 1,679,570 56 % $ 1,538,704 55 % $ 140,866 9 % Gross profit dollars in the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 increased 9% while gross profit margin increased 100 basis points compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. Growth in sales of higher margin segments contributed to the increase in gross profit dollars and gross margin percentage. Fitness margin declined to 53% due to product mix. All other segment gross margin rates are relatively consistent between fiscal periods. Advertising Expenses 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Advertising Advertising Year over Year Expense % of Revenues Expense % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 31,005 6 % $ 24,655 6 % $ 6,350 26 % Fitness 90,871 11 % 79,737 12 % 11,134 14 % Marine 15,516 5 % 16,106 6 % (590 ) -4 % Auto 33,122 4 % 40,710 4 % (7,588 ) -19 % Aviation 6,629 2 % 5,958 1 % 671 11 % Total $ 177,143 6 % $ 167,166 6 % $ 9,977 6 % Advertising expense increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues in the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. The increase in absolute dollars is primarily attributable to outdoor and fitness, partially offset by auto. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Selling, General & Selling, General & Year over Year Admin. Expenses % of Revenues Admin. Expenses % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 77,016 14 % $ 54,132 13 % $ 22,884 42 % Fitness 118,753 15 % 97,809 15 % 20,944 21 % Marine 60,061 18 % 60,834 21 % (773 ) -1 % Auto 127,618 14 % 157,151 15 % (29,533 ) -19 % Aviation 27,110 6 % 24,988 6 % 2,122 8 % Total $ 410,558 14 % $ 394,914 14 % $ 15,644 4 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased 4% and was relatively flat as a percent of revenues in the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. The absolute dollar increase is primarily attributable to information technology costs and salaries and benefits. Variances by segment are primarily due to the allocation of certain selling, general and administrative expenses based on percentage of total revenues with the exception of the marine segment, as expenses decreased as a percentage of revenue due to prior year specific litigation matters. 47 Research and Development Expense 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Research & Research & Year over Year Development % of Revenues Development % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 48,448 9 % $ 37,021 9 % $ 11,427 31 % Fitness 66,985 8 % 54,019 8 % 12,966 24 % Marine 55,965 17 % 52,942 18 % 3,023 6 % Auto 125,660 14 % 130,550 12 % (4,890 ) -4 % Aviation 170,902 39 % 152,511 38 % 18,391 12 % Total $ 467,960 16 % $ 427,043 15 % $ 40,917 10 % Research and development expense increased 10% due to ongoing development activities for new products and additional engineering personnel throughout the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016. In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $40.9 million when compared with the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015, and increased 40 basis points as a percent of revenue. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. Operating Income 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 Year over Year Operating Income % of Revenues Operating Income % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 184,035 34 % $ 139,070 34 % $ 44,965 32 % Fitness 160,596 20 % 134,574 20 % 26,022 19 % Marine 52,167 16 % 28,611 10 % 23,556 82 % Auto 102,347 12 % 136,069 13 % (33,722 ) -25 % Aviation 124,764 28 % 111,257 28 % 13,507 12 % Total $ 623,909 21 % $ 549,581 19 % $ 74,328 14 % As a result of the above, operating income increased 14% in absolute dollars and 120 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. Revenue growth with a slight increase in gross margin percentage contributed to the growth, slightly offset by increased operating expenses, as discussed above, with the exception of the marine segment, as operating expenses decreased as a percentage of revenue due to prior year specific litigation matters. Other Income (Expense) 53-weeks ended 52-weeks ended December 31, 2016 December 26, 2015 Interest income $ 33,406 $ 29,653 Foreign currency gains (losses) (31,651 ) (23,465 ) Other 4,006 11,418 Total $ 5,761 $ 17,606 The average return on cash and investments during the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 and the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 were 1.5% and 1.2%, respectively. Interest income increased primarily due to slightly higher yields on fixed-income securities. Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are typically driven by movements in the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., and the Euro is the functional currency of most of our other European subsidiaries, although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. The majority of the Companys consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, Euro, and British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. 48 The $31.7 million currency loss in fiscal 2016 was primarily due to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar and the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling. During fiscal 2016, the U.S. Dollar weakened 1.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a loss of $9.2 million, while the U.S. Dollar strengthened 4.2% against the Euro and 16.8% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $13.0 million and $5.1 million, respectively. The remaining net currency loss of $4.4 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions. The $23.5 million currency loss in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by a gain associated with the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar. During fiscal 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 10.0% against the Euro and 4.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $31.2 million and $2.1 million, respectively. This was largely offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.8% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $19.5 million. The remaining net currency loss of $9.7 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions. During the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016, Garmin recorded other income of $4.0 million compared to $11.4 million in the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. The decrease in fiscal 2016 relates primarily to a legal settlement received in fiscal 2015. Income Tax Provision Our income tax expense increased by $7.9 million, to $118.9 million for the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016, from $111.0 million for the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. Contributing to the increase was: Increased income before taxes in the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 compared to the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015, Partially offset by: A net release of uncertain tax position reserves due to expiration of certain statutes of limitations of $11.9 million for the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016, as compared with $7.3 million for the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. As described in Note 14, the Company expects to revalue certain Switzerland deferred tax assets, for which the Company anticipates recording approximately $150 million of income tax benefit in the first quarter of 2017. This may result in cash outlays for income taxes exceeding income tax expense recognized in certain future periods. Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above, net income increased 12% to $510.8 million for the 53-weeks ended December 31, 2016 compared to $456.2 million for the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015. 49 Comparison of 52-Weeks Ended December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014 In 2016 the Company moved action camera related revenue and expenses from the outdoor segment to the auto segment, allowing for alignment and synergies with other camera-based efforts occurring within the auto segment. The overall impact of the move was immaterial. However, action camera related operating results for the 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 and December 27, 2014 have been recast to conform to the current year presentation. Net Sales 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Year over Year Net Sales % of Revenues Net Sales % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 411,184 15 % $ 409,847 14 % $ 1,337 0 % Fitness 661,599 23 % 568,440 20 % 93,159 16 % Marine 286,778 10 % 248,371 9 % 38,407 15 % Auto 1,062,091 38 % 1,258,085 44 % (195,994 ) -16 % Aviation 398,618 14 % 385,915 13 % 12,703 3 % Total $ 2,820,270 100 % $ 2,870,658 100 % $ (50,388 ) -2 % Net sales decreased 2% in 2015 when compared to fiscal year 2014. All segments, excluding aviation, were impacted by revenues denominated in currencies that weakened against the U.S. Dollar during the period. In total, it is estimated that the strong U.S. Dollar reduced revenues by approximately $189 million, which represents 6% of revenue. Auto revenue remains the largest portion of our revenue mix at 38% in the fiscal year 2015 compared to 44% in the fiscal year 2014. Total unit sales increased 7% to 16.2 million units in 2015 from 15.1 million units in 2014. The increase in unit sales volume was attributable to fitness and marine volumes partially offset by declines in each of the other segments. Auto segment revenue decreased 16% from fiscal year 2014, as both the contribution of amortization of previously deferred revenue declined when compared to 2014 and volumes declined. Fitness revenues increased 16% on the strength of our wearables portfolio. Aviation revenues increased 3% from fiscal year 2014 as market share gains were partially offset by industry weakness. Outdoor revenues remained relatively flat to fiscal year 2014, as geographic exposure to weak currencies and maturing product categories were largely offset by the strength of outdoor wearables. Revenues in our marine segment increased 15% as the release of new marine products drove strong revenue growth. Cost of Goods Sold 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Year over Year Cost of Goods % of Revenues Cost of Goods % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 156,306 38 % $ 143,188 35 % $ 13,118 9 % Fitness 295,460 45 % 210,153 37 % 85,307 41 % Marine 128,285 45 % 118,661 48 % 9,624 8 % Auto 597,611 56 % 688,742 55 % (91,131 ) -13 % Aviation 103,904 26 % 105,502 27 % (1,598 ) -2 % Total $ 1,281,566 45 % $ 1,266,246 44 % $ 15,320 1 % Cost of goods sold increased 1% in absolute dollars for fiscal year 2015 when compared to fiscal year 2014. Cost of goods as a percentage of revenue increased in part due to a stronger U.S. Dollar that created downward pressure on revenue in all segments excluding aviation as discussed above. In the auto segment, the cost of goods decline was largely consistent with the segment revenue decline. In the fitness and outdoor segments, the cost of goods increase outpaced revenue growth due to product mix and competitive pricing dynamics. The cost of goods decrease as a percentage of revenue in marine is due to increased sales of higher margin products. Aviation cost of goods was lower due to product mix. 50 Gross Profit 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Year over Year Gross Profit % of Revenues Gross Profit % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 254,878 62 % $ 266,659 65 % $ (11,781 ) -4 % Fitness 366,139 55 % 358,287 63 % 7,852 2 % Marine 158,493 55 % 129,710 52 % 28,783 22 % Auto 464,480 44 % 569,343 45 % (104,863 ) -18 % Aviation 294,714 74 % 280,413 73 % 14,301 5 % Total $ 1,538,704 55 % $ 1,604,412 56 % $ (65,708 ) -4 % Gross profit dollars in fiscal year 2015 decreased 4% while gross profit margin decreased 130 basis points compared to fiscal year 2014 with all segments declining, excluding marine and aviation. Segment specific gross margin drivers are discussed above. Advertising Expenses 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Advertising Advertising Year over Year Expense % of Revenues Expense % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 24,655 6 % $ 28,650 7 % $ (3,995 ) -14 % Fitness 79,737 12 % 52,606 9 % 27,131 52 % Marine 16,106 6 % 12,353 5 % 3,753 30 % Auto 40,710 4 % 46,245 4 % (5,535 ) -12 % Aviation 5,958 1 % 6,779 2 % (821 ) -12 % Total $ 167,166 6 % $ 146,633 5 % $ 20,533 14 % Advertising expense increased 14% in absolute dollars while increasing 80 basis points as a percent of revenues. The increase in absolute dollars occurred in fitness and marine to support new product introductions with increased media spend, point of sale presence at key retailers and cooperative advertising. This was partially offset by decreased spending in auto due to reduced cooperative advertising associated with lower volumes and in outdoor due to fewer new product categories. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Selling, General & Selling, General & Year over Year Admin. Expenses % of Revenues Admin. Expenses % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 54,132 13 % $ 52,203 13 % $ 1,929 4 % Fitness 97,809 15 % 75,747 13 % 22,062 29 % Marine 60,834 21 % 42,975 17 % 17,859 42 % Auto 157,151 15 % 177,649 14 % (20,498 ) -12 % Aviation 24,988 6 % 23,458 6 % 1,530 7 % Total $ 394,914 14 % $ 372,032 13 % $ 22,882 6 % Selling, general and administrative expense increased 6% in absolute dollars and 100 basis points as a percent of revenues compared to fiscal year 2014. The absolute dollar increase is primarily related to litigation related costs, information technology costs and product support. Variances by segment are primarily due to the allocation of certain selling, general and administrative expenses based on percentage of total revenues. Marine expense growth exceeded other segments due to specific litigation matters. 51 Research and Development Expense 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Research & Research & Year over Year Development % of Revenues Development % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 37,021 9 % $ 29,747 7 % $ 7,274 24 % Fitness 54,019 8 % 39,252 7 % 14,767 38 % Marine 52,942 18 % 48,150 19 % 4,792 10 % Auto 130,550 12 % 134,774 11 % (4,224 ) -3 % Aviation 152,511 38 % 143,198 37 % 9,313 7 % Total $ 427,043 15 % $ 395,121 14 % $ 31,922 8 % Research and development expense increased 8% due to ongoing development activities for new products and additional engineering personnel throughout fiscal year 2015. In absolute dollars, research and development costs increased $31.9 million when compared with fiscal year 2014 and increased 140 basis points as a percent of revenue. Our research and development spending is focused on product development, improving existing software capabilities, and exploring new categories. Management believes that one of the key strategic initiatives for future growth and success of Garmin is continuous innovation, development, and introduction of new products. Operating Income 52-weeks ended Dec 26, 2015 52-weeks ended Dec 27, 2014 Year over Year Operating Income % of Revenues Operating Income % of Revenues $ Change % Change Outdoor $ 139,070 34 % $ 156,059 38 % $ (16,989 ) -11 % Fitness 134,574 20 % 190,682 34 % (56,108 ) -29 % Marine 28,611 10 % 26,232 11 % 2,379 9 % Auto 136,069 13 % 210,675 17 % (74,606 ) -35 % Aviation 111,257 28 % 106,978 28 % 4,279 4 % Total $ 549,581 19 % $ 690,626 24 % $ (141,045 ) -20 % As a result of the above, operating income decreased 20% in absolute dollars and 460 basis points as a percent of revenue when compared to the fiscal year 2014. Declining gross margin percentages and increases in all operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, as discussed above, contributed to the decline. Other Income (Expense) 52-weeks ended 52-weeks ended December 26, 2015 December 27, 2014 Interest Income $ 29,653 $ 35,584 Foreign Currency gains (losses) (23,465 ) (4,299 ) Other 11,418 1,834 Total $ 17,606 $ 33,119 52 The average return on cash and investments during the fiscal years of 2015 and 2014 were 1.2% and 1.3%, respectively. The decrease in interest income is attributable to decreasing cash and investment balances and a slight decrease in the interest rates. Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are primarily tied to movements by the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro, and the British Pound Sterling in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation. The U.S. Dollar remains the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd. The Euro is the functional currency of most European subsidiaries. As these entities have grown, currency fluctuations can generate material gains and losses. The majority of the Companys consolidated foreign currency gain or loss results from the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at one of the Companys subsidiaries. Due to the relative size of the entities using a functional currency other than the Taiwan Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, currency fluctuations related to these entities are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys financial statements. The $23.5 million currency loss in fiscal 2015 was primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by a gain associated with the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Taiwan Dollar. During fiscal 2015, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 10.0% against the Euro and 4.6% against the British Pound Sterling, resulting in losses of $31.2 million and $2.1 million, respectively. This was largely offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 3.8% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $19.5 million. The remaining net currency loss of $9.7 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions. The majority of the $4.3 million currency loss in the fiscal year 2014 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. The strengthening of the U.S. Dollar compared to the Taiwan Dollar contributed an offsetting gain. During fiscal year 2014, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 11.4% compared to the Euro and 5.5% compared to the British Pound Sterling resulting in a net loss of $43.7 million. This was more than offset as the U.S. Dollar strengthened 5.5% compared to the Taiwan Dollar resulting in a gain of $44.8 million. The remaining net currency loss of $5.4 million is related to other currencies and timing of transactions. During fiscal year 2015, Garmin recorded other income of $11.4 million. This income was primarily due to a legal settlement received during the year and a gain on the disposal of property. Income Tax Provision Our income tax expense decreased by $248.6 million, to $111.0 million for the fiscal year 2015, from $359.5 million for the fiscal year 2014. Contributing to the significant decrease was: tax expense of $307.6 million in 2014 associated with the inter-company restructuring discussed below, Partially offset by: release of uncertain tax position reserves due to expiration of certain statutes of limitations or completion of tax audits of $7.3 million in fiscal year 2015 compared to releases of $83.9 million in fiscal year 2014. In addition, the full year income mix by tax jurisdiction for 2015 compared to 2014 is resulting in an increased effective tax rate. In the third quarter of 2014, the Company initiated an inter-company restructuring that realigned our corporate entity structure. This change in corporate structure provides access to historical earnings that were previously permanently reinvested and allows us to efficiently repatriate future earnings. As a result of the change in corporate structure, Garmin recorded tax expense of $307.6 million. The cash tax payments of $78.1 million and $182.8 million associated with the restructuring were made in the third quarter of 2014 and the second quarter of 2015, respectively. The remainder of the accrued tax will be paid incrementally as the cash is repatriated. 53 Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above, net income increased 25% to $456.2 million for the fiscal year 2015 compared to $364.2 million for the fiscal year 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Operating Activities Fiscal Year Ended Dec 31, Dec 26, Dec 27, (In thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 705,682 $ 280,467 $ 522,711 The $425.2 million increase in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2016 compared to fiscal year 2015 was primarily due to the following: the impact of income taxes payable providing $154.0 million more cash, primarily related to the timing of 2015 income tax payments associated with the inter-company restructuring that was announced in the third quarter of 2014 inventories and related provisions for obsolete and slow moving inventories providing $122.5 million more cash primarily due to reduced purchases of safety stock of specific raw materials and strong demand of products throughout the fiscal year other current and noncurrent assets providing $109.6 million more cash primarily related to the timing of prepayments for royalties net income increasing $54.6 million as discussed in the Results of Operations section above other current and noncurrent liabilities providing $24.0 million more cash primarily due to timing of payments for royalties deferred revenue/costs providing $21.8 million more working capital benefit due to the net decrease in amortization of previously deferred revenue/cost and the increase in stock compensation expense of $15.0 million, primarily associated with performance-contingent awards Partially offset by: accounts payable providing $47.6 million less cash primarily due to the timing of payments the $24.5 million impact of decreasing unrealized foreign currency losses due primarily to foreign currency rate fluctuations as discussed in the Results of Operations section above and accounts receivable providing $13.5 million less cash primarily due to the timing of collections 54 The $242.2 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities in fiscal year 2015 compared to fiscal year 2014 was primarily due to the following: the impact of income tax payable providing $247.0 million less cash due primarily to the timing of disbursements related to the inter-company restructuring other current and noncurrent assets providing $108.0 million less cash primarily due to prepayments of royalties and timing of payments for insurance the impact of deferred income taxes providing $83.9 million less cash primarily due to the timing of withholding taxes paid and inventories and related provisions for obsolete and slow moving inventories providing $47.9 million less cash primarily due to additional safety stock of specific raw materials and continued growth in products offered Partially offset by: net income increasing $92.0 million, as discussed in the Results of Operations section above accounts receivable providing $49.9 million more cash primarily due to the impact of lower revenues and associated decline in receivables the impact of increasing unrealized foreign currency losses providing $37.4 million less cash due to the impact of foreign currency rate fluctuations as discussed in the Results of Operations section above deferred revenue/costs providing $32.6M more working capital benefit due to the decreased amortization of previously deferred revenue/cost as discussed in the Results of Operations section above and accounts payable providing $27.1 million more cash primarily due to the timing of payments Investing Activities Fiscal Year Ended Dec 31, Dec 26, Dec 27, (In thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (121,537 ) $ (111,979 ) $ 131,332 The $9.6 million increase in cash used in investing activities in fiscal year 2016 compared to fiscal year 2015 was primarily due to the following: increased cash payments for acquisitions of $39.3 million increased purchases of property and equipment of $10.4 million and decreased proceeds from the sale of property and equipment of $7.2 million Partially offset by: increased net redemptions of marketable securities of $49.0 million The $243.3 million decrease in cash provided by investing activities in fiscal year 2015 compared to fiscal year 2014 was primarily due to the following: collection of cash advanced under a loan receivable commitment with Bombardier of $137.4 million in 2014 decreased net investments in marketable securities of $87.0 million and increased cash payments for acquisitions of $19.8 million 55 We have budgeted approximately $130 million to $140 million of capital expenditures during fiscal 2017 to include some facility expansion, along with normal ongoing capital expenditures and maintenance activities. Approximately half of the budgeted capital expenditures in fiscal 2017 are attributable to Olathe, Kansas facilities, including the expansion project described within Item 2. Properties. It is managements goal to invest the on-hand cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Board of Directors of each applicable Garmin entity holding the cash. The investment policys primary purpose is to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmins average returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2016, 2015, and 2014 were approximately 1.5%, 1.2%, and 1.3%, respectively. The Companys investment policy targets low risk investments with the objective of minimizing the potential risk of principal loss. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 3 for additional information regarding marketable securities. Financing Activities Fiscal Year Ended Dec 31, Dec 26, Dec 27, (In thousands) 2016 2015 2014 Net cash used in financing activities $ (561,676 ) $ (500,092 ) $ (599,622 ) The $61.6 million increase in cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2016 compared to fiscal year 2015 was primarily due to the following: increased dividend payments of $103.3 million due to an additional dividend payment made in fiscal year 2016 due to the 53-week year and the year-over-year increase of our dividend rate Partially offset by: decreased purchases of treasury stock of $38.2 million under our share repurchase authorization The $99.5 million decrease in cash used in financing activities in fiscal year 2015 compared to fiscal year 2014 was primarily due to the following: decreased purchase of treasury stock of $110.2 million under a share repurchase authorization Partially offset by: increased dividend payments of $18.0 million due to the increase in our year-over-year dividend rate Our dividend has progressively increased from $0.45 per share for the eight calendar quarters beginning in June 2012 to $0.48 per share for the four calendar quarters beginning in June 2014 to $0.51 per share for the eight calendar quarters beginning in June 2015. We primarily use cash flow from operations to fund our capital expenditures, to support our working capital requirements, to pay dividends, and to fund share repurchases. We expect that future cash requirements will principally be for capital expenditures, working capital, payment of dividends declared, share repurchases and the funding of strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our long-term projected capital expenditures, working capital and other cash requirements. 56 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments As of December 31, 2016, operating leases comprise the substance of the Companys commercial commitments with long-term scheduled payments, as summarized below: Payments due by period Contractual Obligations Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Operating Leases $ 73,305 $ 15,229 $ 22,003 $ 14,905 $ 21,168 The Company is party to certain other commitments, which include purchases of raw materials, advertising expenditures, investments in certain low income housing tax credit projects, and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. The aggregate amount of purchase orders and other commitments open as of December 31, 2016 was approximately $403.1 million. We cannot determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations because purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current needs and are typically fulfilled within short periods of time. We may be required to make significant cash outlays related to unrecognized tax benefits. However, due to the uncertainty of the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective taxing authorities. Accordingly, unrecognized tax benefits of $115.1 million as of December 31, 2016, have been excluded from the contractual obligations table above. For further information related to unrecognized tax benefits, see Note 2, Income Taxes, to the consolidated financial statements included in this Report. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements.