Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. However, our affiliates are not obligated to make loans to us in the future, and we may not be able to raise additional financing from unaffiliated parties necessary to fund our expenses. Any such event in the future may negatively impact the analysis regarding our ability to continue as a going concern at such time. Our Sponsor has agreed to loan the Company up to $350,000 to be used to pay operating expenses and $35,000 is drawn down on this loan. Additionally, GCT has agreed to reimburse the Company for certain Business Combination related expenses. As of December 31, 2023, $296,441 is due from GCT. 34 Table of Contents We believe that the funds available to us outside of the Trust Account will be sufficient to allow us to operate until at least August 8, 2024; however, we cannot assure you that our estimate is accurate. Of the funds available to us, we could use a portion of the funds available to us to pay commitment fees for financing, fees to consultants to assist us with our search for a target business or as a down payment or to fund a no-shop provision (a provision in letters of intent or merger agreements designed to keep target businesses from shopping around for transactions with other companies or investors on terms more favorable to such target businesses) with respect to a particular proposed business combination, although we do not have any current intention to do so. If we entered into an agreement where we paid for the right to receive exclusivity from a target business and were subsequently required to forfeit such funds (whether as a result of our breach or otherwise), we might not have sufficient funds to continue searching for, or conduct due diligence with respect to, a prospective target business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.20 per share, or less in certain circumstances, on the liquidation of our Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. Please see If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.20 per share and other risk factors herein. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement units not being held in the Trust Account are insufficient, it could limit the amount available to fund our search for a target business or businesses and complete our initial business combination and we will depend on loans from our sponsor or management team to fund our search, to pay our taxes and to complete our initial business combination. If we are unable to obtain such loans, we may be unable to complete our initial business combination. As of December 31, 2023, only $16,371 was available to us outside the Trust Account to fund our working capital requirements. If we are required to seek additional capital, we would need to borrow funds from our sponsor, management team or other third parties to operate or may be forced to liquidate. Neither our sponsor, members of our management team nor any of their respective affiliates is under any obligation or other duty to loan funds to, or invest in, us in such circumstances. Any such loans may be repaid only from funds held outside the Trust Account or from funds released to us upon completion of our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination because we do not have sufficient funds available to us, we will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In such case, our public stockholders may receive only $10.20 per share, or less in certain circumstances, and our warrants will expire worthless. Please see If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.20 per share and other risk factors herein. Subsequent to our completion of our initial business combination, including the Transactions, we may be required to subsequently take write-downs or write-offs, restructuring and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the price of our securities, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we combine, we cannot assure you that this diligence will identify all material issues that may be present with a particular target business, that it would be possible to uncover all material issues through a customary amount of due diligence, or that factors outside of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. As a result of these factors, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even if our due diligence successfully identifies certain risks, unexpected risks may arise and previously known risks may materialize in a manner not consistent with our preliminary risk analysis. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our securities. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our obtaining post-combination debt financing. Accordingly, any stockholders or warrant holders who choose to remain a stockholder or warrant holder following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders or warrant holders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value. If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.20 per share. Our placing of funds in the Trust Account may not protect those funds from third-party claims against us. Although we will seek to have all vendors, service providers (other than our independent registered public accounting firm), prospective target businesses and other entities with which we do business execute agreements with us waiving any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to any 35 Table of Contents monies held in the Trust Account for the benefit of our public stockholders, such parties may not execute such agreements, or even if they execute such agreements they may not be prevented from bringing claims against the Trust Account, including, but not limited to, fraudulent inducement, breach of fiduciary responsibility or other similar claims, as well as claims challenging the enforceability of the waiver, in each case in order to gain an advantage with respect to a claim against our assets, including the funds held in the Trust Account. If any third party refuses to execute an agreement waiving such claims to the monies held in the Trust Account, our management will perform an analysis of the alternatives available to it and will only enter into an agreement with a third party that has not executed a waiver if management believes that such third partys engagement would be significantly more beneficial to us than any alternative. Making such a request of potential target businesses may make our acquisition proposal less attractive to them and, to the extent prospective target businesses refuse to execute such a waiver, it may limit the field of potential target businesses that we might pursue. Examples of possible instances where we may engage a third party that refuses to execute a waiver include the engagement of a third-party consultant whose particular expertise or skills are believed by management to be significantly superior to those of other consultants that would agree to execute a waiver or in cases where we are unable to find a service provider willing to execute a waiver. In addition, there is no guarantee that such entities will agree to waive any claims they may have in the future as a result of, or arising out of, any negotiations, contracts or agreements with us and will not seek recourse against the Trust Account for any reason. Upon redemption of our public shares, if we have not completed our initial business combination within the prescribed timeframe, or upon the exercise of a redemption right in connection with our initial business combination, we will be required to provide for payment of claims of creditors that were not waived that may be brought against us within the 10 years following redemption. Accordingly, the per-share redemption amount received by public stockholders could be less than the $10.20 per share initially held in the Trust Account, due to claims of such creditors. Our sponsor has agreed that it will be liable to us if and to the extent any claims by a third party for services rendered or products sold to us, or a prospective target business with which we have discussed entering into a transaction agreement, reduce the amount of funds in the Trust Account to below: (1) $10.20 per public share; or (2) such lesser amount per public share held in the Trust Account as of the date of the liquidation of the Trust Account due to reductions in the value of the trust assets, in each case net of the amount of interest which may be withdrawn to pay taxes, except as to any claims by a third party who executed a waiver of any and all rights to seek access to the Trust Account and except as to any claims under our indemnity of the underwriters of our initial public offering against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act. Moreover, in the event that an executed waiver is deemed to be unenforceable against a third party, our sponsor will not be responsible to the extent of any liability for such third-party claims. We have not independently verified whether our sponsor, which is a newly formed entity, has sufficient funds to satisfy its indemnity obligations and believe that our sponsors only assets are securities of our company. Our sponsor may not have sufficient funds available to satisfy those obligations. We have not asked our sponsor to reserve for such obligations, and therefore, no funds are currently set aside to cover any such obligations. As a result, if any such claims were successfully made against the Trust Account, the funds available for our initial business combination and redemptions could be reduced to less than $10.20 per public share. In such event, we may not be able to complete our initial business combination, and you would receive such lesser amount per share in connection with any redemption of your public shares. None of our officers or directors will indemnify us for claims by third parties including, without limitation, claims by vendors and prospective target businesses. Our independent directors may decide not to enforce the indemnification obligations of our sponsor, resulting in a reduction in the amount of funds in the Trust Account available for distribution to our public stockholders. In the event that the proceeds in the Trust Account are reduced below the lesser of: (1) $10.20 per public share; or (2) such lesser amount per public share held in the Trust Account as of the date of the liquidation of the Trust Account due to reductions in the value of the trust assets, in each case net of the amount of interest which may be withdrawn to pay taxes, and our sponsor asserts that it is unable to satisfy its obligations or that it has no indemnification obligations related to a particular claim, our independent directors would determine whether to take legal action against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations. While we currently expect that our independent directors would take legal action on our behalf against our sponsor to enforce its indemnification obligations to us, it is possible that our independent directors in exercising their business judgment may choose not to do so in certain instances. For example, the cost of such legal action may be deemed by the independent directors to be too high relative to the amount recoverable or the independent directors may determine that a favorable outcome is not likely. If our independent directors choose not to enforce these indemnification obligations, the amount of funds in the Trust Account available for distribution to our public stockholders may be reduced below $10.20 per share. 36 Table of Contents If, after we distribute the proceeds in the Trust Account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, a bankruptcy court may seek to recover such proceeds, and the members of our board of directors may be viewed as having breached their fiduciary duties to our creditors, thereby exposing the members of our board of directors and us to claims of punitive damages. If, after we distribute the proceeds in the Trust Account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, any distributions received by stockholders could be viewed under applicable debtor/creditor and/or bankruptcy laws as either a preferential transfer or a fraudulent conveyance. As a result, a bankruptcy court could seek to recover some or all amounts received by our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors may be viewed as having breached its fiduciary duty to our creditors and/or having acted in bad faith by paying public stockholders from the Trust Account prior to addressing the claims of creditors, thereby exposing itself and us to claims of punitive damages. If, before distributing the proceeds in the Trust Account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the claims of creditors in such proceeding may have priority over the claims of our stockholders and the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our stockholders in connection with our liquidation may be reduced. If, before distributing the proceeds in the Trust Account to our public stockholders, we file a bankruptcy petition or an involuntary bankruptcy petition is filed against us that is not dismissed, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be subject to applicable bankruptcy law, and may be included in our bankruptcy estate and subject to the claims of third parties with priority over the claims of our stockholders. To the extent any bankruptcy claims deplete the Trust Account, the per-share amount that would otherwise be received by our public stockholders in connection with our liquidation would be reduced. If we instruct the trustee to liquidate the securities held in the trust account and instead to hold the funds in the trust account in cash until the earlier of the consummation of an initial business combination or our liquidation, we may be able to mitigate the risk that we could be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act. Following the liquidation of securities in the trust account, we may receive minimal interest, if any, on the funds held in the trust account, which may reduce the dollar amount the public stockholders would receive upon any redemption or liquidation of our company. The funds in the trust account have, since the IPO, been held only in interest-bearing demand deposits or U.S. government treasury obligations with a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds investing solely in U.S. government treasury obligations and meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act. However, to mitigate the risk of us being deemed to be an unregistered investment company (including under the subjective test of Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act) and thus subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, we have instructed the trustee with respect to the trust account to hold all funds in the trust account in cash or in an interest-bearing demand deposit account at a national bank until the earlier of consummation of an initial business combination or liquidation of our company. As a result, we may receive minimal interest, if any, on the funds held in the trust account. However, interest previously earned on the funds held in the trust account still may be released to us to pay our taxes, if any, and certain other expenses as permitted. As a result, the decision to hold all funds in the trust account in cash or interest-bearing demand deposits may reduce the dollar amount the public stockholders would receive upon any redemption or liquidation of our company. The longer that the funds in the trust account are held in short-term U.S. government treasury obligations or in money market funds invested exclusively in such securities, the greater the risk that we may be considered an unregistered investment company, in which case we may be required to liquidate our company. As of December 31, 2023, the funds in the trust account are held in an interest-bearing demand deposit account at a bank. Risks Related to Our Operations If we are deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the Investment Company Act, we would be required to institute burdensome compliance requirements and our activities would be severely restricted and, as a result, we may abandon our efforts to consummate an initial business combination and liquidate. There is currently uncertainty concerning the applicability of the Investment Company Act to a SPAC, and it is possible that a claim could be made that we have been operating as an unregistered investment company. If we are deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, our activities would be severely restricted. In addition, we would be subject to 37 Table of Contents burdensome compliance requirements. We do not believe that our principal activities will subject us to regulation as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. However, if we are deemed to be an investment company and subject to compliance with and regulation under the Investment Company Act, we would be subject to additional regulatory burdens and expenses for which we have not allotted funds. As a result, unless we are able to modify our activities so that we would not be deemed an investment company, we would expect to abandon our efforts to complete an initial business combination and instead to liquidate. If we are required to liquidate, our stockholders would not be able to realize the benefits of owning stock in a successor operating business, including the potential appreciation in the value of our stock and warrants following such a transaction, and our warrants would expire worthless. Changes in laws or regulations, or in how such laws or regulations are interpreted or applied, or a failure to comply with any laws, regulations, interpretations or applications, may adversely affect our business, including our ability to negotiate and complete our initial business combination, investments and results of operations. We are subject to laws and regulations, and interpretations and applications of such laws and regulations, enacted by national, regional and local governments. In particular, we are required to comply with certain SEC and other legal requirements. Compliance with, and monitoring of, applicable laws and regulations, and interpretations and applications of such laws and regulations, may be difficult, time consuming and costly. Those laws and regulations and their interpretation and application may also change from time to time and those changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, investments and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations, as interpreted and applied, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our ability to negotiate and complete our initial business combination, investments and results of operations. On March 30, 2022, the SEC issued proposed rules (the SPAC Rule Proposals) relating to, among other items, enhancing disclosures in business combination transactions involving special purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs, and private operating companies; amending the financial statement requirements applicable to transactions involving shell companies; the use of projections by SPACs in SEC filings in connection with proposed business combination transactions; the potential liability of certain participants in proposed business combination transactions; and the extent to which SPACs could become subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, including a proposed rule that would provide a safe harbor for such companies from the definition of investment company under the Investment Company Act, provided certain criteria are satisfied. On January 24, 2024, the SEC issued final rules and guidance (the Final Rules) relating to special purpose acquisition companies, regarding, among other things, disclosure in SEC filings in connection with initial business combination transactions; the financial statement requirements applicable to transactions involving shell companies; the use of projections in SEC filings in connection with proposed business combination transaction; and the potential liability of certain participants in proposed business combination transactions. These Final Rules may materially adversely affect our ability to negotiate and complete our initial business combination and may increase the costs and time related thereto. The need for compliance with the Final Rules may cause us to liquidate the funds in the trust account or liquidate our company at an earlier time than we might otherwise choose. Were we to liquidate our company, our stockholders would not be able to realize the benefits of owning stock in a successor operating business, including the potential appreciation in the value of our stock and warrants following such a transaction, and our warrants would expire worthless. Inflation could adversely affect our business and results of operations. While inflation in the United States and global markets has been relatively low in recent years, during 2021 and 2022, the economy in the United States and global markets encountered a material increase in the level of inflation. The impact of geopolitical developments such as the Russia-Ukraine and the Israel Hamas conflicts and global supply chain disruptions continue to increase uncertainty in the outlook of near-term and long-term economic activity, including whether inflation will continue and how long, and at what rate. Increases in inflation raise our costs for commodities, labor, materials and services and other costs required to grow and operate our business, and failure to secure these on reasonable terms may adversely impact our financial condition. Additionally, increases in inflation, along with geopolitical developments and global supply chain disruptions, have caused, and may in the future cause, global economic uncertainty and uncertainty about the interest rate environment, which may make it more difficult, costly or dilutive for us to secure additional financing. A failure to adequately respond to these risks could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 38 Table of Contents Our stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against us to the extent of distributions received by them upon redemption of their shares. Under the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, stockholders may be held liable for claims by third parties against a corporation to the extent of distributions received by them in a dissolution. The pro rata portion of our Trust Account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not complete our initial business combination within the required time period may be considered a liquidating distribution under Delaware law. If a corporation complies with certain procedures set forth in Section 280 of the DGCL intended to ensure that it makes reasonable provision for all claims against it, including a 60-day notice period during which any third-party claims can be brought against the corporation, a 90-day period during which the corporation may reject any claims brought, and an additional 150-day waiting period before any liquidating distributions are made to stockholders, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholders pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. However, it is our intention to redeem our public shares as soon as reasonably possible following August 8, 2024 in the event we do not complete our initial business combination and, therefore, we do not intend to comply with the foregoing procedures. Because we do not intend to comply with Section 280, Section 281(b) of the DGCL requires us to adopt a plan, based on facts known to us at such time that will provide for our payment of all existing and pending claims or claims that may be potentially brought against us within the 10 years following our dissolution. However, because we are a blank check company, rather than an operating company, and our operations will be limited to searching for prospective target businesses to acquire, the only likely claims to arise would be from our vendors (such as lawyers, investment bankers, consultants, etc.) or prospective target businesses. If our plan of distribution complies with Section 281(b) of the DGCL, any liability of stockholders with respect to a liquidating distribution is limited to the lesser of such stockholders pro rata share of the claim or the amount distributed to the stockholder, and any liability of the stockholder would likely be barred after the third anniversary of the dissolution. We cannot assure you that we will properly assess all claims that may be potentially brought against us. As such, our stockholders could potentially be liable for any claims to the extent of distributions received by them (but no more) and any liability of our stockholders may extend beyond the third anniversary of such date. Furthermore, if the pro rata portion of our Trust Account distributed to our public stockholders upon the redemption of our public shares in the event we do not complete our initial business combination within the required time period is not considered a liquidating distribution under Delaware law and such redemption distribution is deemed to be unlawful, then pursuant to Section 174 of the DGCL, the statute of limitations for claims of creditors could then be six years after the unlawful redemption distribution, instead of three years, as in the case of a liquidating distribution. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we consummate our initial business combination and you will not be entitled to any of the corporate protections provided by such a meeting. We may not hold an annual meeting of stockholders until after we consummate our initial business combination (unless required by the NYSE) and thus may not be in compliance with Section 211(b) of the DGCL, which requires an annual meeting of stockholders be held for the purposes of electing directors in accordance with a companys bylaws unless such election is made by written consent in lieu of such a meeting. Therefore, if our stockholders want us to hold an annual meeting prior to our consummation of our initial business combination, they may attempt to force us to hold one by submitting an application to the Delaware Court of Chancery in accordance with Section 211(c) of the DGCL. Until we hold an annual meeting of stockholders, public stockholders may not be afforded the opportunity to discuss company affairs with management. In addition, prior to our business combination (a) as holders of our Class A common stock, our public stockholders will not have the right to vote on the appointment of our directors and (b) holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock may remove a member of our board of directors for any reason. We have not registered the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws, and such registration may not be in place when an investor desires to exercise warrants, thus precluding such investor from being able to exercise its warrants except on a cashless basis and potentially causing such warrants to expire worthless. We have not registered the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. However, under the terms of the warrant agreement, we have agreed that as soon as practicable, but in no event later than 20 business days after the closing of our initial business combination, we will use our commercially reasonable efforts 39 Table of Contents to file with the SEC, and within 60 business days following our initial business combination to have declared effective, a registration statement covering the issuance of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants and to maintain a current prospectus relating to those shares of Class A common stock until the warrants expire or are redeemed. We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so if, for example, any facts or events arise which represent a fundamental change in the information set forth in the registration statement or prospectus, the consolidated financial statements contained or incorporated by reference therein are not current, complete or correct or the SEC issues a stop order. If the shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants are not registered under the Securities Act, we will be required to permit holders to exercise their warrants on a cashless basis, in which case, the number of shares of Class A common stock that you will receive upon cashless exercise will be based on a formula subject to a maximum amount of shares equal to 0.361 shares of Class A common stock per warrant (subject to adjustment). However, no warrant will be exercisable for cash or on a cashless basis, and we will not be obligated to issue any shares to holders seeking to exercise their warrants, unless the issuance of the shares upon such exercise is registered or qualified under the securities laws of the state of the exercising holder or an exemption from registration is available. Notwithstanding the above, if our Class A common stock is at the time of any exercise of a warrant not listed on a national securities exchange such that it satisfies the definition of a covered security under Section 18(b)(1) of the Securities Act, we may, at our option, require holders of public warrants who exercise their warrants to do so on a cashless basis in accordance with Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act and, in the event we so elect, we will not be required to file or maintain in effect a registration statement, but we will use our commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the shares under applicable blue sky laws to the extent an exemption is not available. In no event will we be required to net cash settle any warrant, or issue securities or other compensation in exchange for the warrants in the event that we are unable to register or qualify the shares underlying the warrants under applicable state securities laws and no exemption is available. If the issuance of the shares upon exercise of the warrants is not so registered or qualified or exempt from registration or qualification, the holder of such warrant shall not be entitled to exercise such warrant and such warrant may have no value and expire worthless. In such event, holders who acquired their warrants as part of a purchase of units will have paid the full unit purchase price solely for the shares of Class A common stock included in the units. There may be a circumstance where an exemption from registration exists for holders of our private placement warrants to exercise their warrants while a corresponding exemption does not exist for holders of the public warrants included as part of units sold in our initial public offering. In such an instance, our sponsors and their permitted transferees (which may include our directors and officers) would be able to exercise their warrants and sell the shares of Class A common stock underlying their warrants while holders of our public warrants would not be able to exercise their warrants and sell the underlying shares of Class A common stock. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying shares of Class A common stock for sale under all applicable state securities laws. As a result, we may redeem warrants even if the holders are otherwise unable to exercise their warrants. The grant of registration rights to our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees may make it more difficult to complete our initial business combination, and the future exercise of such rights may adversely affect the market price of our Class A common stock. Pursuant to an agreement entered into in connection with our initial public offering, at or after the time of our initial business combination, our initial stockholders and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the resale of their founder shares after those shares convert to shares of our Class A common stock. In addition, our sponsors and their permitted transferees can demand that we register the resale of the private placement units, the private placement shares, the private placement warrants and the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the private placement warrants, and holders of units that may be issued upon conversion of working capital loans or the extension loan may demand that we register the resale of such units, the shares of Class A common stock and warrants included in such units and the Class A common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants included in such units. We will bear the cost of registering these securities. The registration and availability of such a significant number of securities for trading in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, the existence of the registration rights may make our initial business combination more costly or difficult to complete. This is because the stockholders of the target business may increase the equity stake they seek in the combined entity or ask for more cash consideration to offset the negative impact on the market price of our Class A common stock that is expected when the securities described above are registered for resale. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Search for a Business Combination Because we are neither limited to evaluating target businesses in a particular industry, sector or geographic area, you will be unable to ascertain the merits or risks of any particular target businesss operations. We may seek to complete a business combination with an operating company in any industry, sector or geographic area. However, we will not, under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, be permitted to effectuate our initial business combination solely with another blank check company or similar company with nominal operations. To the extent we complete our initial business combination, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the business operations with which we combine. For example, if we combine with a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by the risks inherent in the business and operations of a financially unstable or a development stage entity. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we cannot assure you that we will properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors or that we will have adequate time to complete due diligence. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. We also cannot assure you that an investment in our units will ultimately prove to be more favorable to investors than a direct investment, if such opportunity were available, in a business combination target. Accordingly, any stockholders or warrant holders who choose to remain a stockholder or warrant holder following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders or warrant holders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value. We may seek acquisition opportunities in acquisition targets that may be outside of our managements areas of expertise. Although we expect to focus our search for a target business in the financial services and financial technology industries, we will consider a business combination outside of our managements areas of expertise if such business combination candidate is presented to us and we determine that such candidate offers an attractive acquisition opportunity for our company. In the event we elect to pursue an acquisition outside of the areas of our managements expertise, our managements expertise may not be directly applicable to its evaluation or operation, and the information contained in this Annual Report regarding the areas of our managements expertise would not be relevant to an understanding of the business that we elect to acquire. As a result, our management may not be able to adequately ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors relevant to such acquisition. Accordingly, any stockholders or warrant holders who choose to remain a stockholder or warrant holder following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders or warrant holders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value. Although we have identified general criteria and guidelines that we believe are important in evaluating prospective target businesses, we may enter into our initial business combination with a target that does not meet such criteria and guidelines, and as a result, the target business with which we enter into our initial business combination may not have attributes entirely consistent with our general criteria and guidelines. Although we have identified general criteria and guidelines for evaluating prospective target businesses, it is possible that a target business with which we enter into our initial business combination will not have all of these positive attributes. If we complete our initial business combination with a target that does not meet some or all of these criteria and guidelines, such combination may not be as successful as a combination with a business that does meet all of our general criteria and guidelines. In addition, if we announce a prospective business combination with a target that does not meet our general criteria and guidelines, a greater number of stockholders may exercise their redemption rights, which may make it difficult for us to meet any closing condition with a target business that requires us to have a minimum net worth or a certain amount of cash. In addition, if stockholder approval of the transaction is required by applicable law or stock exchange rules, or we decide to obtain stockholder approval for business or other reasons, it may be more difficult for us to attain stockholder approval of our initial business combination if the target business does not meet our general criteria and guidelines. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.20 per share, or less in certain circumstances, on the liquidation of our Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. 41 Table of Contents We may seek acquisition opportunities with an early stage company, a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of revenue or earnings, which could subject us to volatile revenues or earnings, intense competition and difficulties in obtaining and retaining key personnel. To the extent we complete our initial business combination with an early stage company, a financially unstable business or an entity lacking an established record of sales or earnings, we may be affected by numerous risks inherent in the operations of the business with which we combine. These risks include investing in a business without a proven business model and with limited historical financial data, volatile revenues or earnings, intense competition and difficulties in obtaining and retaining key personnel. Although our officers and directors will endeavor to evaluate the risks inherent in a particular target business, we may not be able to properly ascertain or assess all of the significant risk factors. Furthermore, some of these risks may be outside of our control and leave us with no ability to control or reduce the chances that those risks will adversely impact a target business. We are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm or from an independent accounting firm regarding fairness. Consequently, you may have no assurance from an independent source that the price we are paying for the business is fair to our company from a financial point of view. Unless we complete our initial business combination with a business that is affiliated with our sponsor, officers or directors, we are not required to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm that the price we are paying is fair to our company from a financial point of view. If no opinion is obtained, our stockholders will be relying on the judgment of our board of directors, who will determine fair market value based on standards generally accepted by the financial community. Such standards used will be disclosed in our tender offer documents or proxy solicitation materials, as applicable, related to our initial business combination. We may issue additional shares of Class A common stock or preferred stock to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after completion of our initial business combination. We may also issue shares of Class A common stock upon the conversion of the Class B common stock at a ratio greater than one-to-one at the time of our initial business combination as a result of the anti-dilution provisions described herein. Any such issuances would dilute the interest of our stockholders and likely present other risks. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 200,000,000 shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, and 20,000,000 shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share and 1,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share. There are 187,433,640 and 19,999,999 authorized but unissued shares of Class A and Class B common stock available, respectively, for issuance, which amount takes into account shares reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants but not upon the conversion of the Class B common stock. Shares of Class B common stock are automatically convertible into shares of our Class A common stock at the time of our initial business combination, or earlier at the option of the holder, initially at a one-for-one ratio but subject to adjustment as set forth herein. As of the date of this Annual Report, there are no shares of preferred stock issued and outstanding. We may issue a substantial number of additional shares of Class A common stock, and may issue shares of preferred stock, in order to complete our initial business combination or under an employee incentive plan after completion of our initial business combination. We may also issue shares of Class A common stock to redeem our warrants following our initial business combination when the price per share of Class A common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 or upon conversion of the Class B common stock at a ratio greater than one-to-one at the time of our initial business combination as a result of the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock. However, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides, among other things, that prior to our initial business combination, we may not issue additional shares of capital stock that would entitle the holders thereof to (1) receive funds from the Trust Account or (2) vote pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation on any initial business combination or any amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our securities, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; 42 Table of Contents could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, Class A common stock and/or warrants; and may not result in adjustment to the exercise price of our warrants. Resources could be wasted in researching acquisitions that are not completed, which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.20 per share, or less than such amount in certain circumstances, on the liquidation of our Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. We anticipate that the investigation of each specific target business and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we decide not to complete a specific initial business combination, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed transaction likely would not be recoverable. Furthermore, if we reach an agreement relating to a specific target business, we may fail to complete our initial business combination for any number of reasons including those beyond our control. Any such event will result in a loss to us of the related costs incurred which could materially adversely affect subsequent attempts to locate and acquire or merge with another business. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.20 per share, or less in certain circumstances, on the liquidation of our Trust Account and our warrants will expire worthless. Please see If third parties bring claims against us, the proceeds held in the Trust Account could be reduced and the per-share redemption amount received by stockholders may be less than $10.20 per share and other risk factors herein. Our officers and directors will allocate their time to other businesses thereby causing conflicts of interest in their determination as to how much time to devote to our affairs. This conflict of interest could have a negative impact on our ability to complete our initial business combination. Our officers and directors are not required to, and will not, commit their full time to our affairs, which may result in a conflict of interest in allocating their time between our operations and our search for a business combination and their other responsibilities. We do not intend to have any full-time employees prior to the completion of our business combination. Each of our officers and directors is engaged in several other business endeavors for which he or she may be entitled to substantial compensation and our officers and directors are not obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. Our independent directors also serve as officers and/or board members for other entities. If our officers and directors other business affairs require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affairs in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs which may have a negative impact on our ability to complete our initial business combination. Please see Item 10 of this Annual Report for a discussion of our officers and directors other business affairs. We are dependent upon our officers and directors and their departure could adversely affect our ability to operate. Our operations are dependent upon a relatively small group of individuals. We believe that our success depends on the continued service of our officers and directors, at least until we have completed our initial business combination. We do not have an employment agreement with, or key-man insurance on the life of, any of our directors or officers. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of our directors or officers could have a detrimental effect on us. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination, including the Transactions, and to be successful thereafter will be dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel, some of whom may join us following our initial business combination. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our ability to successfully effect our initial business combination, including the Transactions, is dependent upon the efforts of our key personnel. The role of our key personnel in the target business, however, cannot presently be ascertained. Although some of our 43 Table of Contents key personnel may remain with the target business in senior management or advisory positions following our initial business combination, we do not currently expect that any of them will do so. While we intend to closely scrutinize any individuals we engage after our initial business combination, we cannot assure you that our assessment of these individuals will prove to be correct. These individuals may be unfamiliar with the requirements of operating a company regulated by the SEC, which could cause us to have to expend time and resources helping them become familiar with such requirements. In addition, the officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon completion of our initial business combination. The departure of a business combination targets key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of an acquisition candidates key personnel upon the completion of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidates management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following our initial business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. Our key personnel may negotiate employment or consulting agreements with a target business in connection with a particular business combination, and a particular business combination may be conditioned on the retention or resignation of such key personnel. These agreements may cause our key personnel to have conflicts of interest in determining whether to proceed with a particular business combination. However, we do not expect that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the completion of our initial business combination. Our key personnel may be able to remain with our company after the completion of our initial business combination only if they are able to negotiate employment or consulting agreements in connection with the business combination. Such negotiations would take place simultaneously with the negotiation of the business combination and could provide for such individuals to receive compensation in the form of cash payments and/or our securities for services they would render to us after the completion of the business combination. Such negotiations also could make such key personnels retention or resignation a condition to any such agreement. The personal and financial interests of such individuals may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business. However, we believe the ability of such individuals to remain with us after the completion of our initial business combination will not be the determining factor in our decision as to whether or not we will proceed with any potential business combination, as we do not expect that any of our key personnel will remain with us after the completion of our initial business combination. The determination as to whether any of our key personnel will remain with us will be made at the time of our initial business combination. We may have a limited ability to assess the management of a prospective target business and, as a result, may effect our initial business combination with a target business whose management may not have the skills, qualifications or abilities to manage a public company. When evaluating the desirability of effecting our initial business combination with a prospective target business, our ability to assess the target businesss management may be limited due to a lack of time, resources or information. Our assessment of the capabilities of the targets management, therefore, may prove to be incorrect and such management may lack the skills, qualifications or abilities we suspected. Should the targets management not possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to manage a public company, the operations and profitability of the post-combination business may be negatively impacted. Accordingly, any stockholders or warrant holders who choose to remain a stockholder or warrant holder following our initial business combination could suffer a reduction in the value of their securities. Such stockholders or warrant holders are unlikely to have a remedy for such reduction in value. The officers and directors of an acquisition candidate may resign upon completion of our initial business combination. The departure of a business combination targets key personnel could negatively impact the operations and profitability of our post-combination business. The role of an acquisition candidates key personnel upon the completion of our initial business combination cannot be ascertained at this time. Although we contemplate that certain members of an acquisition candidates management team will remain associated with the acquisition candidate following our initial business combination, it is possible that members of the management of an acquisition candidate will not wish to remain in place. As a result, we may need to reconstitute the management team of the post-transaction company in connection with our initial business combination, which may adversely impact our ability to complete an acquisition in a timely manner or at all. 44 Table of Contents Certain of our officers and directors are now, and all of them may in the future become, affiliated with entities engaged in business activities similar to those intended to be conducted by us and, accordingly, may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity a particular business opportunity or other transaction should be presented. Until we consummate our initial business combination, we intend to engage in the business of identifying and combining with one or more businesses. Our sponsor and officers and directors are, or may in the future become, affiliated with entities (such as operating companies or investment vehicles) that are engaged in a similar business. In addition, many of our executive officers and directors also serve as executive officers and directors of Concord II, which is a blank check company that is in the process of identifying a target and completing its business combination and may present additional conflicts of interest in pursuing an acquisition target. We do not have employment contracts with our officers and directors that will limit their ability to work at other businesses. Each of our officers and directors presently has, and any of them in the future may have additional, fiduciary, contractual or other obligations or duties to one or more other entities pursuant to which such officer or director is or will be required to present a business combination opportunity to such entities. These entities may compete with us for acquisition opportunities. If these entities decide to pursue any such opportunity, we may be precluded from pursuing such opportunities. These conflicts may not be resolved in our favor and a potential target business may be presented to another entity prior to its presentation to us. If any of our officers or directors becomes aware of a business combination opportunity which is suitable for one or more entities to which he or she has fiduciary, contractual or other obligations or duties, he or she may honor these obligations and duties to present such business combination opportunity to such entities first and only present it to us if such entities reject the opportunity and he or she determines to present the opportunity to us. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce our interest in any corporate opportunity offered to any director or officer unless such opportunity is expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of our company and such opportunity is one we are legally and contractually permitted to undertake and would otherwise be reasonable for us to pursue. Our officers, directors, security holders and their respective affiliates may have competitive pecuniary interests that conflict with our interests. We have not adopted a policy that expressly prohibits our directors, officers, security holders or affiliates from having a direct or indirect pecuniary or financial interest in any investment to be acquired or disposed of by us or in any transaction to which we are a party or have an interest. In fact, we may enter into a business combination with a target business that is affiliated with our sponsors, directors or officers. We do not have a policy that expressly prohibits any such persons from engaging for their own account in business activities of the types conducted by us. Accordingly, such persons or entities may have a conflict between their interests and ours. We may engage in a business combination with one or more target businesses that have relationships with entities that may be affiliated with our sponsors, officers or directors which may raise potential conflicts of interest. In light of the involvement of our sponsors, officers and directors with other businesses, we may decide to acquire one or more businesses affiliated with or competitive with our sponsors, officers and directors, and their respective affiliates. Our directors also serve as officers and/or board members for other entities, including, without limitation, Concord II. Such entities may compete with us for business combination opportunities. Our sponsors, officers and directors are not currently aware of any specific opportunities for us to complete our initial business combination with any entities with which they are affiliated, and there have been no substantive discussions concerning a business combination with any such entity or entities. Although we will not be specifically focusing on, or targeting, any transaction with any affiliated entities, we would pursue such a transaction if we determined that such affiliated entity met our criteria for a business combination and such transaction was approved by a majority of our independent and disinterested directors. Despite our agreement to obtain an opinion from an independent investment banking firm that is a member of FINRA or from an independent accounting firm, regarding the fairness to our company from a financial point of view of a business combination with one or more domestic or international businesses affiliated with our sponsor, officers or directors, potential conflicts of interest still may exist and, as a result, the terms of the business combination may not be as advantageous to our public stockholders as they would be absent any conflicts of interest. Moreover, we may, at our option, pursue an affiliated joint acquisition opportunity with our sponsors or their respective affiliates or with other entities to which an officer or director has a fiduciary, contractual or other obligation or duty. Any such parties may co-invest with us in the target business at the time of our initial business combination, or we could raise additional proceeds to complete the acquisition by making a future issuance of securities to any such parties, which may give rise to certain conflicts of interest. 45 Table of Contents Since our initial stockholders will lose their entire investment in us if our initial business combination is not completed (other than with respect to any public shares they may hold), a conflict of interest may arise in determining whether a particular business combination target is appropriate for our initial business combination. On March 1, 2021, our sponsor purchased an aggregate of 7,187,500 founder shares for a capital contribution of $25,000. On March 25, 2021, our sponsor sold 1,437,500 founder shares to CA2 Co-Investment and 25,000 to each of our independent directors, in each case at the original price per share. On May 6, 2021, CA2 Co-Investment sold 956,439 shares back to our sponsor at the original purchase price, resulting in our sponsor holding 6,631,439 founder shares and CA2 Co-Investment holding 481,061 founder shares. In November 2021, we effected a stock dividend of 1,437,500 shares with respect to our Class B common stock, resulting in our initial stockholders holding an aggregate of 8,625,000 founder shares. In November 2023, our Sponsor and the holders of the founder shares converted an aggregate of 8,624,999 shares of Class B Common Stock to shares of A Common Stock in accordance with the Existing Certificate of Incorporation (the Class B Conversion). Following the Class B Conversion, there was one share of Class B Common Stock outstanding, which is held by the Sponsor. Our sponsor currently holds 7,957,727 founder shares, CA2 Co-Investment currently holds 577,273 founder shares and each of our three independent directors currently holds 30,000 founder shares. The number of founder shares issued was determined based on the expectation that the founder shares would represent 20% of the outstanding shares of common stock upon the completion of the offering (not including the shares of Class A common stock underlying the private placement warrants). Our initial stockholders have waived their rights to redeem the founder shares or to receive distributions from the Trust Account with respect to the founder shares upon our liquidation if we are unable to complete a business combination. Accordingly, the founder shares will be worthless if we do not complete an initial business combination. Our initial stockholders acquired the founder shares for approximately $0.003 per share and we are offering units at a price of $10.00 per unit in the offering; as a result, our initial stockholders could make a substantial profit after our initial business combination even if public stockholders experience substantial losses and, accordingly, may have a conflict of interest in determining whether a particular target business is an appropriate business with which to effectuate our initial business combination. In addition, private placement warrants purchased by our sponsors will also be worthless if we do not complete our initial business combination. The personal and financial interests of our officers and directors may influence their motivation in identifying and selecting a target business combination, completing an initial business combination and influencing the operation of the business following the initial business combination. This risk may become more acute as the deadline for completing our initial business combination nears. We may issue notes or other debt securities, or otherwise incur substantial debt, to complete a business combination, which may adversely affect our leverage and financial condition and thus negatively impact the value of our stockholders investment in us. Although we have no commitments as of the date of this Annual Report to issue any notes or other debt securities, or to otherwise incur outstanding debt, we may choose to incur substantial debt to complete our initial business combination. We have agreed that we will not incur any indebtedness unless we have obtained from the lender a waiver of any right, title, interest or claim of any kind in or to the monies held in the Trust Account. As such, no issuance of debt will affect the per-share amount available for redemption from the Trust Account. Nevertheless, the incurrence of debt could have a variety of negative effects, including: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; 46 Table of Contents our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. We may only be able to complete one business combination with the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement units, which will cause us to be solely dependent on a single business which may have a limited number of products or services. This lack of diversification may materially negatively impact our operations and profitability. The net proceeds from the initial public offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, net of previous redemptions, provided us with approximately $42,400,000, assuming no redemptions, that we may use to complete our initial business combination (which includes $5,083,575, for the payment of the deferred underwriting commissions). We may effectuate our initial business combination with a single target business or multiple target businesses simultaneously or within a short period of time. However, we may not be able to effectuate our initial business combination with more than one target business because of various factors, including the existence of complex accounting issues and the requirement that we prepare and file pro forma financial statements with the SEC that present operating results and the financial condition of several target businesses as if they had been operated on a combined basis. By completing our initial business combination with only a single entity our lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory risks. Further, we would not be able to diversify our operations or benefit from the possible spreading of risks or offsetting of losses, unlike other entities which may have the resources to complete several business combinations in different industries or different areas of a single industry. Accordingly, the prospects for our success may be: solely dependent upon the performance of a single business, property or asset; or dependent upon the development or market acceptance of a single or limited number of products, processes or services. This lack of diversification may subject us to numerous economic, competitive and regulatory risks, any or all of which may have a substantial adverse impact upon the particular industry in which we may operate subsequent to our initial business combination. We may attempt to simultaneously complete business combinations with multiple prospective targets, which may hinder our ability to complete our initial business combination and give rise to increased costs and risks that could negatively impact our operations and profitability. If we determine to simultaneously acquire several businesses that are owned by different sellers, we will need for each of such sellers to agree that our purchase of its business is contingent on the simultaneous closings of the other business combinations, which may make it more difficult for us, and delay our ability, to complete our initial business combination. With multiple business combinations, we could also face additional risks, including additional burdens and costs with respect to possible multiple negotiations and due diligence investigations (if there are multiple sellers) and the additional risks associated with the subsequent assimilation of the operations and services or products of the acquired companies in a single operating business. If we are unable to adequately address these risks, it could negatively impact our profitability and results of operations. 47 Table of Contents We may attempt to complete our initial business combination with a private company about which little information is available, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. In pursuing our acquisition strategy, we may seek to effectuate our initial business combination with a privately held company. Very little public information generally exists about private companies, and we could be required to make our decision on whether to pursue a potential initial business combination on the basis of limited information, which may result in a business combination with a company that is not as profitable as we suspected, if at all. Our management may not be able to maintain control of a target business after our initial business combination. We cannot provide assurance that, upon loss of control of a target business, new management will possess the skills, qualifications or abilities necessary to profitably operate such business. We may structure our initial business combination so that the post-transaction company in which our public stockholders own or acquire shares will own less than 100% of the outstanding equity interests or assets of a target business, but we will only complete such business combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target business sufficient for us not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. We will not consider any transaction that does not meet such criteria. Even if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the outstanding voting securities of the target, our stockholders prior to our initial business combination may collectively own a minority interest in the post business combination company, depending on valuations ascribed to the target and us in our initial business combination. For example, we could pursue a transaction in which we issue a substantial number of new shares of common stock in exchange for all of the outstanding capital stock of a target, or issue a substantial number of new shares to third-parties in connection with financing our initial business combination. In such cases, we would acquire a 100% interest in the target. However, as a result of the issuance of a substantial number of new shares of common stock, our stockholders immediately prior to such transaction could own less than a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock subsequent to such transaction. In addition, other minority stockholders may subsequently combine their holdings resulting in a single person or group obtaining a larger share of the companys stock than we initially acquired. Accordingly, this may make it more likely that our management will not be able to maintain our control of the target business. We do not have a specified maximum redemption threshold. The absence of such a redemption threshold may make it possible for us to complete our initial business combination with which a substantial majority of our stockholders do not agree. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation does not provide a specified maximum redemption threshold, except that we may not redeem our public shares in an amount that would cause our net tangible assets to be less than a net tangible asset or cash requirement which may be contained in the agreement relating to our initial business combination. As a result, we may be able to complete our initial business combination even though a substantial majority of our public stockholders do not agree with the transaction and have redeemed their shares or, if we seek stockholder approval of our initial business combination and do not conduct redemptions in connection with our initial business combination pursuant to the tender offer rules, have entered into privately negotiated agreements to sell their shares to our sponsors, officers, directors, advisors or any of their respective affiliates. In the event the aggregate cash consideration we would be required to pay for all shares of common stock that are validly submitted for redemption plus any amount required to satisfy cash conditions pursuant to the terms of the proposed business combination exceed the aggregate amount of cash available to us, we will not complete the business combination or redeem any shares, all shares of common stock submitted for redemption will be returned to the holders thereof, and we instead may search for an alternate business combination (including, potentially, with the same target). Risks Related to Our Organizational Documents and Structure In order to effectuate an initial business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments, including their warrant agreements. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or governing instruments, including our warrant agreement, in a manner that will make it easier for us to complete our initial business combination that some of our stockholders or warrant holders may not support. In order to effectuate an initial business combination, blank check companies have, in the recent past, amended various provisions of their charters and modified governing instruments, including their warrant agreements. For example, blank check companies have amended the definition of business combination, increased redemption thresholds, extended the time to consummate an initial business 48 Table of Contents combination and, with respect to their warrants, amended their warrant agreements to require the warrants to be exchanged for cash and/or other securities. We cannot assure you that we will not seek to amend our charter or governing instruments or extend the time to consummate an initial business combination in order to effectuate our initial business combination. To the extent any such amendment would be deemed to fundamentally change the nature of any of the securities offered through the registration statement from our initial public offering, we would register, or seek an exemption from registration for, the affected securities. Certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that relate to our pre-business combination activity (and corresponding provisions of the agreement governing the release of funds from our Trust Account) may be amended with the approval of holders of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock, which is a lower amendment threshold than that of some other blank check companies. It may be easier for us, therefore, to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and the trust agreement to facilitate the completion of an initial business combination that some of our stockholders may not support. Some other blank check companies have a provision in their charter which prohibits the amendment of certain of its provisions, including those which relate to a companys pre-business combination activity, without approval by holders of a certain percentage of the companys stockholders. In those companies, amendment of these provisions typically requires approval by holders holding between 90% and 100% of the companys public shares. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that any of its provisions (other than amendments relating to the appointment or removal of directors prior to our initial business combination, which require the approval by holders of a majority of at least 90% of the outstanding shares of our common stock voting at a stockholder meeting) related to pre-business combination activity (including the requirement to deposit proceeds of the offering and the sale of the private placement warrants into the Trust Account and not release such amounts except in specified circumstances and to provide redemption rights to public stockholders as described herein) may be amended if approved by holders of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock, and corresponding provisions of the trust agreement governing the release of funds from our Trust Account may be amended if approved by holders of at least 65% of our outstanding common stock. Unless specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or as required by applicable law or stock exchange rules, the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock that are voted is required to approve any such matter voted on by our stockholders, and, prior to our initial business combination, the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our Class B common stock is required to approve the election or removal of directors. We may not issue additional securities that can vote pursuant to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation on any initial business combination or any amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Our initial stockholders, who will beneficially own 20.0% of our common stock upon the closing of the offering (assuming they do not purchase any units in the offering), may participate in any vote to amend our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and/or trust agreement and will have the discretion to vote in any manner they choose. As a result, we may be able to amend the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation which will govern our pre-business combination behavior more easily than some other blank check companies, and this may increase our ability to complete our initial business combination with which you do not agree.Our sponsors, officers and directors have agreed, pursuant to a written agreement, that they will not propose any amendment to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (A) to modify the substance or timing of our obligation to allow redemptions in connection with our initial business combination or to redeem 100% of our public shares if we do not complete our initial business combination by August 8, 2024 or during any Extension Period or (B) with respect to any other provision relating to stockholders rights or pre-initial business combination activity, unless we provide our public stockholders with the opportunity to redeem their shares of Class A common stock upon approval of any such amendment at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest (which interest shall be net of taxes payable), divided by the number of then outstanding public shares. These agreements are contained in a letter agreement that we have entered into with our sponsors, officers and directors. Our public stockholders are not parties to, or third-party beneficiaries of, these agreements and, as a result, will not have the ability to pursue remedies against our sponsors, officers or directors for any breach of these agreements. As a result, in the event of a breach, our public stockholders would need to pursue a stockholder derivative action, subject to applicable law. Certain agreements related to our initial public offering may be amended without stockholder approval. Certain agreements, including the letter agreement among us and our sponsors, officers and directors, and the registration rights agreement among us and our initial stockholders, may be amended without stockholder approval. These agreements contain various provisions, including transfer restrictions on our founder shares and private placement units and the securities included therein, that our public stockholders might deem to be material. While we do not expect our board of directors to approve any amendment to any of these agreements prior to our initial business combination, it may be possible that our board of directors, in exercising its business judgment and subject to its fiduciary duties, chooses to approve one or more amendments to any such agreement in connection with 49 Table of Contents the consummation of our initial business combination. Any such amendments would not require approval from our stockholders, may result in the completion of our initial business combination that may not otherwise have been possible, and may have an adverse effect on the value of an investment in our securities. We may be unable to obtain additional financing to complete our initial business combination or to fund the operations and growth of a target business, which could compel us to restructure or abandon a particular business combination. Although we believe that the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement units will be sufficient to allow us to complete our initial business combination, we cannot ascertain the capital requirements for any particular transaction, including the Transactions. If the net proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement units prove to be insufficient, either because of the size of our initial business combination, the depletion of the available net proceeds in search of a target business, the obligation to redeem for cash a significant number of shares from stockholders who elect redemption in connection with our initial business combination or the terms of negotiated transactions to purchase shares in connection with our initial business combination, we may be required to seek additional financing or to abandon the proposed business combination. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available on acceptable terms, if at all. None of our sponsors or their affiliates are obligated to provide, or seek, any such financing or, except as expressly set forth herein, to provide any other services to us. To the extent that additional financing proves to be unavailable when needed to complete our initial business combination, we would be compelled to either restructure the transaction or abandon that particular business combination and seek an alternative target business candidate. In addition, even if we do not need additional financing to complete our initial business combination, we may require such financing to fund the operations or growth of the target business. The failure to secure additional financing could have a material adverse effect on the continued development or growth of the target business. None of our officers, directors or stockholders is required to provide any financing to us in connection with or after our initial business combination. If we are unable to complete our initial business combination, our public stockholders may receive only approximately $10.20 per share, or less in certain circumstances, on the liquidation of our Trust Account, and our warrants will expire worthless. Our initial stockholders will control the election of our board of directors until consummation of our initial business combination and will hold a substantial interest in us. As a result, they will elect all of our directors prior to our initial business combination and may exert a substantial influence on actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support. Our initial stockholders own 68.6% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, prior to our initial business combination, holders of our Class B common stock will have the right to appoint all of our directors and may remove members of our board of directors for any reason. Holders of our public shares will have no right to vote on the election of directors during such time. These provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation may only be amended by holders of a majority of at least 90% of the outstanding shares of our common stock voting at a stockholder meeting. As a result, you will not have any influence over the election of directors prior to our initial business combination. Neither our initial stockholders nor, to our knowledge, any of our officers or directors, have any current intention to purchase additional securities, other than as disclosed in this Annual Report. Factors that would be considered in making such additional purchases would include consideration of the current trading price of our Class A common stock. In addition, as a result of their substantial ownership in our company, our initial stockholders may exert a substantial influence on other actions requiring a stockholder vote, potentially in a manner that you do not support, including amendments to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and approval of major corporate transactions. If our initial stockholders purchase any additional shares of common stock in the aftermarket or in privately negotiated transactions, this would increase their influence over these actions. Accordingly, our initial stockholders will exert significant influence over actions requiring a stockholder vote. Please see Permitted purchases and other transactions with respect to our securities in Item 1 of this Annual Report. We may amend the terms of the warrants in a manner that may be adverse to holders of public warrants with the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then outstanding public warrants. As a result, the exercise price of your warrants could be increased, the warrants could be converted into cash or stock, the exercise period could be shortened and the number of shares of our Class A common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant could be decreased, all without your approval. Our warrants will be issued in registered form under a warrant agreement between Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company, as warrant agent, and us. The warrant agreement provides that the terms of the warrants may be amended without the consent of any holder to cure any ambiguity or correct any defective provision, but requires the approval by the holders of at least 50% of the then 50 Table of Contents outstanding public warrants to make any change that adversely affects the interests of the registered holders of public warrants. Accordingly, we may amend the terms of the public warrants in a manner adverse to a holder if holders of at least 50% of the then outstanding public warrants approve of such amendment. Although our ability to amend the terms of the public warrants with the consent of at least 50% of the then outstanding public warrants is unlimited, examples of such amendments could be amendments to, among other things, increase the exercise price of the warrants, convert the warrants into cash or stock (at a ratio different than initially provided), shorten the exercise period or decrease the number of shares of our common stock purchasable upon exercise of a warrant. We may redeem your unexpired warrants prior to their exercise at a time that is disadvantageous to you, thereby making your warrants worthless. We have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants at any time after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.01 per warrant if, among other things, the last reported sales price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $18.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within a 30 trading-day period ending on the third trading day prior to the date we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. If and when the warrants become redeemable by us, we may exercise our redemption right even if we are unable to register or qualify the underlying securities for sale under all applicable state securities laws. As a result, we may redeem the public warrants as set forth above even if the holders are otherwise unable to exercise the warrants. Redemption of the outstanding warrants could force you to: (1) exercise your warrants and pay the exercise price therefor at a time when it may be disadvantageous for you to do so; (2) sell your warrants at the then-current market price when you might otherwise wish to hold your warrants; or (3) accept the nominal redemption price which, at the time the outstanding warrants are called for redemption, we expect would be substantially less than the market value of your warrants. In addition, we have the ability to redeem outstanding warrants commencing ninety days after they become exercisable and prior to their expiration, at a price of $0.10 per warrant if, among other things, the last reported sale price of our Class A common stock equals or exceeds $10.00 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) on the trading day prior to the date on which we send the notice of redemption to the warrant holders. In such a case, the holders will be able to exercise their warrants for cash or on a cashless basis prior to redemption and receive that number of shares of Class A common stock determined by reference to the table set forth under Description of Securities Warrants Public Stockholders Warrants based on the redemption date and the fair market value of our Class A common stock (as defined below) except as otherwise described in Description of Securities Warrants Public Stockholders Warrants. The value received upon exercise of the warrants (1) may be less than the value the holders would have received if they had exercised their warrants at a later time where the underlying share price is higher and (2) may not compensate the holders for the value of the warrants, including because the number of shares of common stock received is capped at 0.361 shares of Class A common stock per warrant (subject to adjustment) irrespective of the remaining life of the warrants. None of the warrants underlying the private placement units will be redeemable by us so long as they are held by our sponsors or their permitted transferees. Our public warrants, founder shares and private placement warrants, as well as other warrants we may issue in the future (including the securities contained therein), may have an adverse effect on the market price of our Class A common stock and make it more difficult to effectuate our initial business combination. We issued warrants to purchase 17,250,000 shares of our Class A common stock, at a price of $11.50 per whole share (subject to adjustment as provided herein), as part of the units and, simultaneously with the closing of the offering, we issued in a private placement, an aggregate of 9,400,000 private placement warrants, each exercisable to purchase one share of Class A common stock at a price of $11.50 per share, subject to adjustment as provided herein. Our initial stockholders currently hold 8,625,000 founder shares (8,624,999 of which have been converted to Class A common stock as of December 31, 2023). The founder shares are convertible into shares of Class A common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to adjustment as set forth herein. In addition, if our sponsors, an affiliate of our sponsors or certain of our officers and directors make any working capital loans, up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be converted into warrants, at the price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants. The Company also executed promissory notes with the Sponsors, evidencing the Sponsor Loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans shall be repaid or converted into Sponsor Loan Warrants at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. On November 2, 2023, the Company, GCT and the Sponsor entered into a 51 Table of Contents Sponsor Support Agreement. Pursuant to the Sponsor Support Agreement, the Sponsor agreed to forgive all amounts outstanding under the Sponsor Loan upon the closing of the proposed Business Combination. To the extent we issue shares of Class A common stock to effectuate our initial business combination, the potential for the issuance of a substantial number of additional shares of Class A common stock upon exercise of these warrants or conversion rights could make us a less attractive acquisition vehicle to a target business. Any such issuance will increase the number of outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and reduce the value of the Class A common stock issued to complete the business combination. Therefore, our public warrants, founder shares and private placement units (including the securities included therein) may make it more difficult to effectuate a business combination or increase the cost of acquiring the target business. Because each unit sold in our initial public offering contains one-half of one redeemable warrant and only a whole warrant may be exercised, the units may be worth less than units of other blank check companies. Each unit sold in our initial public offering contains one-half of one redeemable warrant. Pursuant to the warrant agreement, no fractional warrants will be issued upon separation of the units, and only whole units will trade. This is different from other offerings similar to ours whose units include one share of Class A common stock and one whole warrant to purchase one whole share. We have established the components of the units in this way in order to reduce the dilutive effect of the warrants upon completion of a business combination since the warrants will be exercisable in the aggregate for one half of the number of shares compared to units that each contain a whole warrant to purchase one whole share, thus making us, we believe, a more attractive business combination partner for target businesses. Nevertheless, this unit structure may cause our units to be worth less than if they included a warrant to purchase one whole share. Because we must furnish our stockholders with target business financial statements, we may lose the ability to complete an otherwise advantageous initial business combination with some prospective target businesses. The federal proxy rules require that a proxy statement with respect to a vote on a business combination meeting certain financial significance tests include historical and/or pro forma financial statement disclosure in periodic reports. We will include the same financial statement disclosure in connection with our tender offer documents, whether or not they are required under the tender offer rules. These financial statements may be required to be prepared in accordance with, or be reconciled to, GAAP, or international financial reporting standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, or IFRS, depending on the circumstances and the historical financial statements may be required to be audited in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB. These financial statement requirements may limit the pool of potential target businesses we may acquire because some targets may be unable to provide such financial statements in time for us to disclose such financial statements in accordance with federal proxy rules and complete our initial business combination within the prescribed time frame. We are an emerging growth company and a smaller reporting company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies or smaller reporting companies, this could make our securities less attractive to investors and may make it more difficult to compare our performance with other public companies. We are an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, as modified by the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates exceeds $700,000,000 as of the end of any second quarter of a fiscal year, in which case we would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the end of such fiscal year. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because we will rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the trading prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the trading prices of our securities may be more volatile. 52 Table of Contents Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies but any such election to opt out is irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our consolidated financial statements with another public company which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of using the extended transition period difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Additionally, we are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies may take advantage of certain reduced disclosure obligations, including, among other things, providing only two years of audited consolidated financial statements. We will remain a smaller reporting company until the last day of each fiscal year for so long as either (1) the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates did not equal or exceed $250,000,000 as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter, or (2) our annual revenues did not exceed $100,000,000 during such completed fiscal year and the market value of our common stock held by non-affiliates did not equal or exceed $700,000,000 as of the end of that years second fiscal quarter. To the extent we take advantage of such reduced disclosure obligations, it may also make comparison of our consolidated financial statements with other public companies difficult or impossible. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may make it more difficult for us to effectuate our initial business combination, require substantial financial and management resources, and increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. Only in the event we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer or an accelerated filer, and no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, will we be required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement on our internal control over financial reporting. The fact that we are a blank check company makes compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act particularly burdensome on us as compared to other public companies because a target business with which we seek to complete our initial business combination may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of its internal controls. The development of the internal control of any such entity to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover of us, which could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for our Class A common stock and could entrench management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation contains provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in their best interests. These provisions include staggered board of directors, the ability of the board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred shares, and the fact that prior to the completion of our initial business combination only holders of our shares of Class B common stock, which are held by our initial stockholders, are entitled to vote on the election of directors, which may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. We are also subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together these provisions may make more difficult the removal of management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our securities. 53 Table of Contents Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with our company or our companys directors, officers or other employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for any (1) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of our company, (2) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, employee or agent of our company to our company or our stockholders, or any claim for aiding and abetting any such alleged breach, (3) action asserting a claim against our company or any director or officer of our company arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our bylaws, or (4) action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer of our company governed by the internal affairs doctrine except for, as to each of (1) through (4) above, any claim (a) as to which the Court of Chancery determines that there is an indispensable party not subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery (and the indispensable party does not consent to the personal jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery within ten days following such determination), (b) which is vested in the exclusive jurisdiction of a court or forum other than the Court of Chancery, (c) for which the Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction or (d) arising under the Securities Act, as to which the Court of Chancery and the federal district court for the District of Delaware shall have concurrent jurisdiction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the exclusive forum provision will not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Section 27 of the Exchange Act creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the forum provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. If any action the subject matter of which is within the scope the forum provisions is filed in a court other than a court located within the State of Delaware (a foreign action) in the name of any stockholder, such stockholder shall be deemed to have consented to: (x) the personal jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located within the State of Delaware in connection with any action brought in any such court to enforce the forum provisions (an enforcement action), and (y) having service of process made upon such stockholder in any such enforcement action by service upon such stockholders counsel in the foreign action as agent for such stockholder. This forum selection clause may discourage claims or limit stockholders ability to submit claims in a judicial forum that they find favorable and may result in additional costs for a stockholder seeking to bring a claim. While we believe the risk of a court declining to enforce this forum selection clause is low, if a court were to determine the forum selection clause to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs in conjunction with our efforts to resolve the dispute in an alternative jurisdiction, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition and result in a diversion of the time and resources of our management and board of directors. If our management team pursues a company with operations or opportunities outside of the United States for our initial business combination, we may face additional burdens in connection with investigating, agreeing to and completing such combination, and if we effect such initial business combination, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. If our management team pursues a company with operations or opportunities outside of the United States for our initial business combination, we would be subject to risks associated with cross-border business combinations, including in connection with investigating, agreeing to and completing our initial business combination, conducting due diligence in a foreign market, having such transaction approved by any local governments, regulators or agencies and changes in the purchase price based on fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If we effect our initial business combination with such a company, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in an international setting, including any of the following: costs and difficulties inherent in managing cross-border business operations and complying with commercial and legal requirements of overseas markets; rules and regulations regarding currency redemption; 54 Table of Contents complex corporate withholding taxes on individuals; laws governing the manner in which future business combinations may be effected; tariffs and trade barriers; regulations related to customs and import/export matters; longer payment cycles; tax consequences; currency fluctuations and exchange controls; rates of inflation; challenges in collecting accounts receivable; cultural and language differences; employment regulations; crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks, natural disasters and wars; deterioration of political relations with the United States; obligatory military service by personnel; and government appropriation of assets. We may not be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, we may be unable to complete such combination or, if we complete such combination, our operations might suffer, either of which may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. If our management following our initial business combination is unfamiliar with U.S. securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws, which could lead to various regulatory issues. Following our initial business combination, any or all of our management could resign from their positions as officers of the post-business combination company, and the management of the target business at the time of the business combination could remain in place. Management of the target business may not be familiar with U.S. securities laws. If new management is unfamiliar with U.S. securities laws, they may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. An investment in our securities may result in uncertain or adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. An investment in our securities may result in uncertain U.S. federal income tax consequences. For instance, because there are no authorities that directly address instruments similar to the units we issued in our initial public offering, the allocation an investor makes with respect to the purchase price of a unit between the share of Class A common stock and the one-half of one redeemable warrant to purchase one share of our Class A common stock included in each unit could be challenged by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, or the courts. Furthermore, the U.S. federal income tax consequences of a cashless exercise of the warrants included in the units we issued in our initial public offering are unclear under current law, and the adjustment to the exercise price and/or redemption price of the warrants could give rise to dividend income to investors without a corresponding payment of cash. Finally, it is unclear whether the redemption rights with respect to our shares of common stock suspend the running of a U.S. holders holding period for purposes of determining whether any gain or loss realized by such holder on the sale or exchange of common stock is long-term capital gain or loss and for determining whether any dividend we pay would be considered qualified dividends for U.S. federal 55 Table of Contents income tax purposes. See the section titled United States Federal Income Tax Considerations for a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax considerations applicable to an investment in our securities. Prospective investors are urged to consult their tax advisors with respect to these and other tax consequences applicable to their specific circumstances when purchasing, holding or disposing of our securities. We may be subject to an increased rate of tax on our income if we are treated as a personal holding company. Depending on the date and size of our initial business combination, it is possible that we could be treated as a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A U.S. corporation generally will be classified as a personal holding company for U.S. federal income tax purposes in a given taxable year if more than 50% of its ownership (by value) is concentrated, within a certain period of time, in five or fewer individuals (without regard to their citizenship or residency and including as individuals for this purpose certain entities such as certain tax-exempt organizations, pension funds, and charitable trusts), and at least 60% of its income is comprised of certain passive items. A new 1% U.S. federal excise tax could be imposed on us in connection with redemptions by us of our shares, including in connection with both of the Extensions. On August 16, 2022, the IR Act was signed into federal law. The IR Act provides for, among other things, a new U.S. federal 1% excise tax on certain repurchases (including redemptions) of stock by publicly traded U.S. domestic corporations and certain U.S. domestic subsidiaries of publicly traded foreign corporations occurring on or after January 1, 2023. The excise tax is imposed on the repurchasing corporation itself, not its shareholders from which shares are repurchased. The amount of the excise tax is generally 1% of the fair market value of the shares repurchased at the time of the repurchase. However, for purposes of calculating the excise tax, repurchasing corporations are permitted to net the fair market value of certain new stock issuances against the fair market value of stock repurchases during the same taxable year. In addition, certain exceptions apply to the excise tax. The U.S. Department of the Treasury (the Treasury) has been given authority to provide regulations and other guidance to carry out and prevent the abuse or avoidance of the excise tax. On December 27, 2022, the Treasury released Notice 2023-2, which provides taxpayers with interim guidance on the excise tax that may be relied upon until the Internal Revenue Service issues proposed Treasury regulations on such matter. Notice 2023-2 includes as one of its exceptions to the excise tax a distribution in complete liquidation of a covered corporation, such as ours, to which Sec. 331 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), applies (so long as Sec. 332(a) of the Code also does not also apply). Although it remains uncertain whether, and/or to what extent, the excise tax could apply to any redemptions of our public shares after December 31, 2022, including any redemptions in connection with our initial business combination or in the event we do not consummate our initial business combination by the Termination Date (or, if the Charter Amendment is approved and the Extension is implemented, the Extended Date), we would not expect the excise tax to apply to redemptions of our public shares that occur during a taxable year in which we completely liquidate under Sec. 331 of the Code. Pursuant to our charter, each public stockholder may seek to redeem all or a portion of such stockholders public shares for its pro rata portion of the funds available in the trust account, including interest earned on the funds held in the trust account and not previously released to us (less taxes payable, and less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses), in connection with the approval of the Charter Amendment and the implementation of the Extension. Any redemption or other repurchase that occurs after December 31, 2022 may be subject to the excise tax, including in connection with our initial business combination, certain amendments to our charter (including the proposed Charter Amendment) or otherwise. Whether and to what extent we would be subject to the excise tax would depend on a number of factors, including (i) the fair market value of the redemptions and repurchases in connection with the initial business combination, certain amendments to our charter (including the proposed Charter Amendment) or otherwise, (ii) the structure of the initial business combination, (iii) the nature and amount of any PIPE or other equity issuances in connection with the initial business combination (or otherwise issued not in connection with the initial business combination but issued within the same taxable year of the initial business combination) and (iv) the content of regulations and other guidance from the Treasury. In addition, because the excise tax would be payable by us and not by the redeeming holder, the mechanics of any required payment of the excise tax have not been determined. However, if the Charter Amendment is approved and the Extension is implemented, no interest earned on the funds held in the trust account will be used to pay for any excise tax due under the IR Act in connection with the Extension. The foregoing could cause a reduction in the cash available on hand to complete our initial business combination and in our ability to complete our initial business combination. As of December 31, 2023, we recognized $3,184,272 in excise tax payable related to share redemptions. 56 Table of Contents Were we considered to be a foreign person, we might not be able to complete an initial business combination with a U.S. target company if such initial business combination is subject to U.S. foreign investment regulations and review by a U.S. government entity such as the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), or ultimately prohibited. Certain federally licensed businesses in the United States, such as broadcasters and airlines, may be subject to rules or regulations that limit foreign ownership. In addition, CFIUS is an interagency committee authorized to review certain transactions involving foreign investment in the United States by foreign persons in order to determine the effect of such transactions on the national security of the United States. Were we considered to be a foreign person under such rules and regulations, any proposed business combination between us and a U.S. business engaged in a regulated industry or which may affect national security could be subject to such foreign ownership restrictions and/or CFIUS review. The scope of CFIUS was expanded by the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018 (FIRRMA) to include certain non-controlling investments in sensitive U.S. businesses and certain acquisitions of real estate even with no underlying U.S. business. FIRRMA, and subsequent implementing regulations that are now in force, also subject certain categories of investments to mandatory filings. If a potential initial business combination with a U.S. business falls within the scope of foreign ownership restrictions, we may be unable to consummate an initial business combination with such business. In addition, if a potential initial business combination falls within CFIUSs jurisdiction, we may be required to make a mandatory filing or determine to submit a voluntary notice to CFIUS, or to proceed with the initial business combination without notifying CFIUS and risk CFIUS intervention, before or after closing the initial business combination. Both our company and our sponsor are U.S. entities, and the managers of our sponsor are U.S. citizens. Each of our officers and directors is a U.S. citizen. If CFIUS has jurisdiction over our initial business combination, as a result of these existing relationships or otherwise, CFIUS may decide to block or delay our initial business combination, impose conditions to mitigate national security concerns with respect to such initial business combination or order us to divest all or a portion of a U.S. business of the combined company if we had proceeded without first obtaining CFIUS clearance. If we were considered to be a foreign person, the foreign ownership limitations, and the potential impact of CFIUS, may limit the attractiveness of a transaction with us or prevent us from pursuing certain initial business combination opportunities that we believe would otherwise be beneficial to us and our stockholders. As a result, in such circumstances, the pool of potential targets with which we could complete an initial business combination could be limited and we may be adversely affected in terms of competing with other SPACs that do not have similar foreign ownership issues. Moreover, the process of government review, whether by CFIUS or otherwise, could be lengthy. Because we have only a limited time to complete our initial business combination, our failure to obtain any required approvals within the requisite time period may require us to liquidate. If we liquidate, the public stockholders may only receive $10.20 per share, and our warrants will expire worthless. This will also cause you to lose any potential investment opportunity in a target company and the chance of realizing future gains on your investment through any price appreciation in the combined company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY We are a special purpose acquisition company with no business operations. Since our IPO, our sole business activity has been identifying and evaluating suitable acquisition transaction candidates. Therefore, we do not consider that we face significant cybersecurity risk and have not adopted any cybersecurity risk management program or formal processes for assessing cybersecurity risk. Our board of directors is generally responsible for the oversight of risks from cybersecurity threats, if any. We have not encountered any cybersecurity incidents since our IPO. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We currently maintain our executive offices at 477 Madison Avenue, 22nd Floor, New York, NY 10022. The cost for this space is included in the $20,000 per month fee that we pay an affiliate of our sponsor for office space, administrative and support services. We consider our current office space adequate for our current operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS There is no material litigation, arbitration or governmental proceeding currently pending against us or any members of our management team. 57 Table of Contents ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our equity securities trade on the NYSE. Each of our units consists of one share of Class A common stock and one-half of one warrant and, commencing on November 4, 2021, trades on the NYSE under the symbol CNDB.U. The Class A common stock and warrants underlying our units began trading separately on the NYSE under the symbols CNDB and CNDB.WS, respectively, on December 27, 2021. Holders of Record On March 5, 2024, there was one holder of record of our units, seven holders of record of our Class A common stock, five holders of record of our Class B common stock and four holders of record of our warrants. Such numbers do not include beneficial owners holding our securities through nominee names. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends prior to the completion of our initial business combination. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon our revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition subsequent to completion of our initial business combination. The payment of any cash dividends subsequent to our initial business combination will be within the discretion of our board of directors at such time. In addition, our board of directors is not currently contemplating and does not anticipate declaring any share dividends in the foreseeable future. Further, if we incur any indebtedness in connection with our initial business combination, our ability to declare dividends may be limited by restrictive covenants we may agree to in connection therewith. Use of Proceeds from our Initial Public Offering On November 8, 2021, we completed an initial public offering of 34,500,000 Units, including the issuance of 4,500,000 Units as a result of the underwriters exercise in full of their over-allotment option. The Units were sold at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345,000,000. Simultaneously with the consummation of the IPO, the Company completed a private placement of an aggregate of 9,400,000 Private Placement Warrants at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total gross proceeds of $9,400,000. The Company also executed promissory notes with the Sponsors, evidencing loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans shall be repaid or converted into warrants at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. The Sponsor Loan Warrants will be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. A total of $351,900,000 of the net proceeds from the IPO, the Private Placement and the Sponsor Loans was deposited in a Trust Account established for the benefit of the Companys public stockholders, with Continental Stock Transfer & Company acting as trustee. We paid a total of $6,900,000 in underwriting discounts and $455,576 for other offering costs and expenses related to the Initial Public Offering. On May 4, 2023, the Companys stockholders approved at the special meeting of stockholders a proposal to amend the Companys charter to extend the date by which the Company has to consummate a business combination from May 8, 2023 to the Extended Date. In connection with the votes to approve the charter amendment, the holders of 30,460,066 shares of Class A common stock of the Company properly exercised their right to redeem their shares for cash at a redemption price of approximately $10.42 per share, for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $317,400,000, leaving approximately $42,000,000 in the Trust Account. On November 7, 2023, the Companys stockholders approved at the special meeting of stockholders a proposal to amend the Companys charter to further extend the date by which the Company has to consummate a Business Combination from the Extended Date to August 8, 2024, or such earlier date as may be determined by the board of directors of the Company. In connection with the 58 Table of Contents votes to approve such proposal, the holders of an additional 98,573 shares of Class A common stock of the Company properly exercised their right to redeem their shares for cash at a redemption price of approximately $10.70 per share, for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $1,100,000, leaving approximately $42,200,000 in the Trust Account. On February 27, 2024, the Company held a special meeting in lieu of the 2024 annual meeting of stockholders in connection with the proposed Business Combination. At the Special Meeting, the Companys stockholders approved the Business Combination Proposal, the Charter Amendment Proposal, each of the Governance Proposals (on a non-binding advisory basis), the election of each director nominee pursuant to the Election of Directors Proposal, the Incentive Award Plan Proposal, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan Proposal, and the NYSE Proposal, in each case as defined and described in greater detail in the Final Prospectus. For a description of the use of the proceeds generated in our Initial Public Offering, see Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 59 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The statements in the discussion and analysis regarding industry outlook, our expectations regarding the performance of our business and the forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties described in Risk Factors and Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. You should read the following discussion together with the sections entitled Risk Factors, Business and the audited consolidated financial statements, including the related notes, appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K. All references to year, unless otherwise noted, refer to our fiscal year, which ends on December 31. As used in this Form 10-K, unless the context suggests otherwise, we, us, our, the Company or Concord refer to Concord Acquisition Corp III. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on February 18, 2021 as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our initial public offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. The issuance of additional shares of our stock in a business combination: may significantly dilute the equity interest of investors in our securities, which dilution would increase if the anti-dilution provisions in the Class B common stock resulted in the issuance of Class A shares on a greater than one-to-one basis upon conversion of the Class B common stock; may subordinate the rights of holders of common stock if preferred stock is issued with rights senior to those afforded our common stock; could cause a change of control if a substantial number of shares of our common stock is issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards, if any, and could result in the resignation or removal of our present officers and directors; may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of us by diluting the stock ownership or voting rights of a person seeking to obtain control of us; may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our units, Class A common stock and/or warrants; and may not result in adjustment to the exercise price of our warrants. Similarly, if we issue debt securities or otherwise incur significant indebtedness, it could result in: default and foreclosure on our assets if our operating revenues after an initial business combination are insufficient to repay our debt obligations; acceleration of our obligations to repay the indebtedness even if we make all principal and interest payments when due if we breach certain covenants that require the maintenance of certain financial ratios or reserves without a waiver or renegotiation of that covenant; our immediate payment of all principal and accrued interest, if any, if the debt is payable on demand; our inability to obtain necessary additional financing if the debt contains covenants restricting our ability to obtain such financing while the debt is outstanding; our inability to pay dividends on our common stock; using a substantial portion of our cash flow to pay principal and interest on our debt, which will reduce the funds available for dividends on our common stock if declared, expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; limitations on our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business and in the industry in which we operate; increased vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions and adverse changes in government regulation; and 60 Table of Contents limitations on our ability to borrow additional amounts for expenses, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our strategy and other purposes and other disadvantages compared to our competitors who have less debt. The First Extension In April 2023, the Company and the Sponsor entered into Non-Redemption Agreements with a number of the Companys stockholders in exchange for them agreeing not to redeem shares of the Companys Class A common stock sold in the IPO in connection with the special meeting of stockholders called by the Company and held on May 4, 2023. In exchange for the foregoing commitments not to redeem such shares, the Sponsor has agreed to transfer to such stockholders an aggregate of 999,665 shares of the Companys Class B common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, held by the Sponsor immediately following consummation of an initial business combination. On May 4, 2023, the Companys stockholders approved at the special meeting of stockholders a proposal to amend the Companys charter to extend the date by which the Company has to consummate a business combination from May 8, 2023 to November 8, 2023, or such earlier date as may be determined by the board of directors of the Company. In connection with the votes to approve the Charter Amendment, the holders of 30,460,066 shares of Class A common stock of the Company properly exercised their right to redeem their shares for cash at a redemption price of approximately $10.42 per share, for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $317,400,000, leaving approximately $42,000,000 in the Trust Account. The Second Extension In November 2023, the Company and the Sponsor entered into Non-Redemption Agreements with a number of the Companys stockholders in exchange for them agreeing not to redeem shares of the Companys Class A common stock sold in the IPO in connection with the special meeting of stockholders called by the Company and held on November 7, 2023. In exchange for the foregoing commitments not to redeem such shares, the Company has agreed to allocate to such investors an aggregate of 781,961 shares of Class A common stock and the Sponsor has agreed to surrender and forfeit to the Company for no consideration a number of shares of Class B common stock equal to the number of Promote Shares upon closing of an initial business combination. On November 7, 2023, the Companys stockholders approved at the special meeting of stockholders a proposal to amend the Companys charter to further extend the date by which the Company has to consummate a Business Combination from the Extended Date to August 8, 2024, or such earlier date as may be determined by the board of directors of the Company. In connection with the votes to approve such a proposal, the holders of an additional 98,573 shares of Class A common stock of the Company properly exercised their right to redeem their shares for cash at a redemption price of approximately $10.70 per share, for an aggregate redemption amount of approximately $1,100,000, leaving approximately $42,200,000 in the Trust Account and 3,941,361 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding immediately following these redemptions. In connection with the implementation of the Charter Amendment, the Sponsor converted 7,957,726 shares of Class B common stock into Class A common stock, and the other holders of shares of Class B common stock converted all of their shares of Class B common stock into Class A common stock. The Business Combination Agreement; Certain Agreements Related to the Business Combination On November 2, 2023, the Company entered into the Business Combination Agreement GCT and Merger Sub. Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, the parties will, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions contained in the Business Combination Agreement, consummate a business combination transaction pursuant to which Merger Sub will merge with and into GCT, with GCT surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The aggregate equity consideration to be paid to GCTs stockholders and other equity holders in the Transactions will be equal to the quotient of (i) the Company Value divided by (ii) $10.00. Immediately prior to the Closing, all of the outstanding principal and accrued interest under the outstanding promissory notes issued by GCT that can be converted into shares of GCT common stock will be so converted in accordance with their terms. Following the Closing, the Company will issue up to an aggregate of 20,000,000 additional shares of its common stock to the stockholders of GCT as of immediately prior to the Closing and certain other persons, including the PIPE Investors, if the VWAP of the shares of the Companys common stock equals or exceeds certain minimum share prices at any time during the Earnout Period, as follows: (i) 6,666,667 shares if the VWAP of the shares of the common stock equals or exceeds $12.50 for any 20 trading days within 61 Table of Contents a period of 30 consecutive trading days during the Earnout Period; (ii) 6,666,666 shares if the VWAP of the shares of the common stock equals or exceeds $15.00 for any 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days during the Earnout Period; and (iii) 6,666,667 shares if the VWAP of the shares of the common stock equals or exceeds $17.50 for any 20 trading days within a period of 30 consecutive trading days during the Earnout Period. Such shares will also become issuable under certain circumstances if a change of control of the Company occurs following the Closing but prior to the applicable earnout expiration date and the price per share in the change of control equals or exceeds the applicable price target. Concurrently with the execution of the Business Combination Agreement, the PIPE Investors entered into the PIPE Subscription Agreements pursuant to which the PIPE Investors have committed to purchase in a private placement an aggregate of 4,484,854 shares of the Companys Class A common stock at a purchase price of $6.67 per share and an aggregate purchase price of approximately $29,900,000. The purchase of the PIPE Shares is conditioned upon, among other things, the consummation of the Transactions and will be consummated immediately prior to or substantially concurrently with the Closing. The Public Warrants and Private Placement Warrants include certain down-round provisions under which their exercise price may be adjusted, if (a) the Company issues additional shares of the Companys Class A common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of the Companys Class A common stock for capital raising purposes in connection with the closing of its initial business combination at an issue price or effective issue price of less than $9.20 per share of the Companys Class A common stock, (b) the aggregate gross proceeds from such issuances represent more than 60% of the total equity proceeds, and interest thereon, available for the funding of an initial business combination on the date of the consummation of such initial business combination (net of redemptions), and (c) the volume weighted average trading price of the Companys Class A common stock during the twenty (20) trading day period starting on the trading day prior to the day on which the Company consummates an initial business combination is below $9.20 per share, the price per share (including in cash or by payment of warrants pursuant to a cashless exercise, to the extent permitted) at which shares of the Companys Class A common stock may be purchased at the time a warrant is exercised will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 115% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price, and the $18.00 per share redemption trigger prices will be adjusted (to the nearest cent) to be equal to 180% of the higher of the Market Value and the Newly Issued Price. Concurrently with the execution and delivery of the Business Combination Agreement, the Company entered into the Sponsor Support Agreement with GCT, the Sponsor and CA2. Pursuant to the Sponsor Support Agreement, the Sponsor and CA2 have, among other things, agreed to vote all of their shares of the Companys common stock in favor of the approval of the Transactions, including the Merger, not to redeem any of their shares of the Companys common stock and to waive their anti-dilution protections with respect to their shares of the Companys Class B common stock. In addition, the Sponsor and CA2 agreed that a portion of up to an aggregate of 1,920,375 shares of common stock to be issued to them at Closing (collectively, the Sponsor Earnout Shares) will be unvested and subject to forfeiture as of the Closing, and will only vest if certain share price trading thresholds are satisfied during a specified period of time following the Closing. The Sponsor and CA2 further agreed that (i) 1,399,107 shares of common stock to be held by them at Closing, (ii) any portion of the Sponsor Earnout Shares not unvested and made subject to forfetiture as of the Closing and (iii) up to an aggregate of 2,820,000 Private Placement Warrants to be held by them at Closing may be allocated by GCT to the GCT Recipients, and transferred to the GCT Recipients at Closing (without any vesting conditions). The Sponsor and CA2 also agreed (i) to forfeit up to an additional 2,820,000 Private Placement Warrants held by them at Closing, to the extent not allocated prior to the Closing to certain third parties, including prospective PIPE Investors and holders of shares of the Companys Class A common stock who agree not to redeem their shares in connection with any extension of the Companys deadline to consummate an initial business combination, and (ii) to forgive all amounts outstanding under the Sponsor Loans. In connection with the execution of the Business Combination Agreement, the Company entered into the Stockholder Support Agreement with certain stockholders of GCT pursuant to which such stockholders have, among other things, agreed to vote to adopt and approve the Business Combination Agreement and all other documents and transactions contemplated thereby and to subject their shares to certain transfer restrictions. The foregoing descriptions of the Business Combination Agreement, PIPE Subscription Agreements, Sponsor Support Agreement, Stockholder Support Agreement, and other agreements and transactions contemplated thereunder are not complete. For a more detailed discussion of the Business Combination Agreement and the Transactions, see the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 8, 2023, and the Registration Statement on Form S-4 initially filed with the SEC on November 13, 2023, as amended, and the Companys prospectus filed with the SEC on February 14, 2024. 62 Table of Contents Other Recent Developments In December 2023, one of the underwriters waived any right to receive the deferred underwriters commission of $6,991,425 and will therefore receive no additional underwriting commissions in connection with the closing of a Business Combination. After one of our underwriters waived their right to the deferred underwriters commission, our remaining underwriters are entitled to a deferred underwriters commission of $5,083,575 of the gross proceeds of the IPO held in the Trust Account upon the completion of the Companys initial Business Combination subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. On January 19, 2024, the Company received a notification from the NYSE informing the Company that, because the number of public stockholders is less than 300, the Company is not in compliance with Section 802.01B of the Listing Rule. The Listing Rule requires the Company to maintain a minimum of 300 public stockholders on a continuous basis. The NYSE notification letter specifies that the Company has 45 days to submit a plan that demonstrates how the Company expects to return to compliance with the Listing Rule within 18 months of receipt of the notice. The business plan will be reviewed by Committee of the NYSE. The Committee will either accept the plan, at which time the Company will be subject to quarterly monitoring for compliance with this business plan, or the Committee will not accept the business plan and the Company will be subject to suspension and delisting procedures. The Company submitted its Compliance Plan on February 28, 2024. On February 27, 2024, the Company held a special meeting in lieu of the 2024 annual meeting of stockholders in connection with the proposed Business Combination. At the Special Meeting, the Companys stockholders approved the Business Combination Proposal, the Charter Amendment Proposal, each of the Governance Proposals (on a non-binding advisory basis), the election of each director nominee pursuant to the Election of Directors Proposal, the Incentive Award Plan Proposal, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan Proposal, and the NYSE Proposal, in each case as defined and described in greater detail in the Final Prospectus. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception relate to our formation, the IPO and, subsequent to the IPO, identifying a target company for a Business Combination and completion of the proposed Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. Until such time that a business combination occurs, we will generate non-operating income in the form of investment income on cash and cash equivalents in the form of specified U.S. government treasury bills or specified money market funds after the IPO and non-operating income or expense from the changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities and Sponsor Loans. There has been no significant change in our financial or trading position and no material adverse change has occurred since the date of our audited consolidated financial statements. Until the completion of our initial business combination, we expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we had a net loss of $1,995,754 which consisted of operating costs, net, of $4,867,708, a change in the fair value of the warrant liability and Sponsor Loans of $2,913,800 and income taxes of $1,385,741, partially offset by income from cash and investments held in Trust Account of $6,795,482, income from operating bank account of $3,335, and recovery of offering costs attributable to warrant liability of $372,678. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we had net income of $24,256,284, which consisted of the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and Sponsor Loans of $21,332,800 and income from investments held in Trust Account of $5,091,197, partially offset by formation and operating costs of $1,172,506 and income tax expense of $995,207. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the IPO, as described below, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of common stock by the sponsors and loans from our Sponsor. The Company executed promissory notes with the Sponsors (the Sponsors Loans), evidencing loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans were to be repaid or converted into warrants (Sponsor Loan Warrants) at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. The Sponsor Loan Warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. In accordance with the Business Combination Agreement with GCT, with the consummation of the Business Combination, the Sponsor would forgive the outstanding balance of the Sponsor Loans of $6,900,000. 63 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2023, we had available to us $16,371 of cash held outside the Trust Account. We will use these funds primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a business combination, pay our administrative fees, and to pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is not sufficient to pay our taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in operating activities was $2,677,129. Net loss of $1,995,754 was primarily driven by income from cash and investments held in Trust Account of $6,795,482 and recovery of offering costs attributable to warrants of $372,678, partially offset by a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $2,913,800. Changes in working capital generated $3,572,985. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash provided by investing activities was $320,579,121 as a result of withdrawals of $318,441,770 from the Trust Account in connection with redemptions and $2,137,351 from the Trust Account to pay taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $318,406,770 due to redemptions of Class A common stock of $318,441,770 offset by proceeds from a promissory note of $35,000. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $1,516,064. Net income of $24,256,284 was primarily driven by income from investments held in Trust Account of $5,091,197 and a change in the fair value of the warrant liability of $21,332,800. Changes in working capital generated $651,649. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided by investing activities was $822,658 due to our withdrawal of funds from the Trust Account to pay taxes. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with an intended initial business combination, our sponsors, an affiliate of our sponsors or our officers and directors may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete our initial business combination, we may repay such loaned amounts out of the proceeds of the trust account released to us. In the event that our initial business combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the trust account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our trust account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into warrants at a price of $1.00 per warrant at the option of the lender. The warrants would be identical to the private placement warrants issued to our sponsors. The terms of such loans by our sponsors, an affiliate of our sponsors or our officers and directors, if any, have not been determined and no written agreements exist with respect to such loans. Prior to the completion of our business combination, we do not expect to seek loans from parties other than our sponsors, an affiliate of our sponsors or our officers and directors, if any, as we do not believe third parties will be willing to loan such funds and provide a waiver against any and all rights to seek access to funds in our trust account. As of December 31, 2023, no such convertible loans had been arranged. On May 3, 2022, the sponsor agreed to loan us up to $350,000 to be used to pay operating expenses. This loan is non-interest bearing, unsecured, not convertible into warrants or any other securities, and due at the closing of a business combination. There was $35,000 and no balance outstanding as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Additionally, GCT has agreed to reimburse us for certain Business Combination related expenses. As of December 31, 2023, $296,441 is due from GCT. If the estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to a Business Combination. Moreover, the Company may need to obtain additional financing either to complete a Business Combination or because the Company becomes obligated to redeem a significant number of public shares upon consummation of a Business Combination, in which case the Company may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Company would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of a Business Combination. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination because it does not have sufficient funds available, the Company will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following a Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, the Company may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet its obligations. The Company has until the Current Extended Date to consummate a Business Combination. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date and any additional extension(s) are not obtained, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent 64 Table of Contents dissolution of the Company. Although the Company intends to consummate a Business Combination on or before the Current Extended Date, it is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination by this time. In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with ASC Subtopic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern, Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur, and an additional extension is not obtained, and potential subsequent dissolution, as well as the potential for the Company to have insufficient funds available to operate its business prior to a Business Combination, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts and classification of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after the Current Extended Date. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2023. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations Other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office space, administrative and support services and $6,900,000 in Sponsor Loans, we do not have any contractual obligations, long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term contractual obligations to be paid from our operating bank account. In association with the Business Combination agreement, GCT has agreed to reimburse the Company for that portion of the Administrative Service Fee that relates to the proposed Business Combination. Further, on May 3, 2022, the Sponsor agreed to loan the Company up to $350,000 to be used to pay operating expenses. This loan is non-interest bearing, unsecured, is not convertible into warrants or any other securities, and due at the closing of a business combination. The Company has borrowed $35,000 under the promissory note. There was $35,000 and no balance outstanding as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. In December 2023, one of the underwriters waived any right to receive the deferred underwriters commission of $6,991,425 and will therefore receive no additional underwriting commissions in connection with the closing of a Business Combination. After one of our underwriters waived their right to the deferred underwriters commission, our remaining underwriters are entitled to a deferred underwriters commission of $5,083,575 of the gross proceeds of the IPO held in the Trust Account upon the completion of the Companys initial Business Combination subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. On March 29, 2023, the Company engaged a capital markets advisor in connection with seeking an extension for completing a business combination, a possible acquisition of a third party by merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock or assets or other business combination, and as a placement agent in connection with a private placement of debt, equity, equity-linked or convertible securities. The Company agreed to pay the capital markets advisor a transaction fee in connection with the services provided, payable upon and subject to the Companys consummation of an initial business combination. The fee consists of a fixed and determinable portion and a variable portion contingent upon certain future events expected to take place upon completion of a business combination. As of December 31, 2023, $2,500,000 was accrued for the fee as the amount was earned and fixed and determinable. These costs may be paid for using the proceeds of the cash available once a business combination is complete. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. We have identified the following critical accounting estimates: 65 Table of Contents Warrant Liability We classify each warrant as a liability at its fair value. This liability is subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date. With each such re-measurement, the warrant liability will be adjusted to fair value, with the change in fair value recognized in our statement of operations. The fair value of our Private Placement Warrants requires significate estimates by management. Deviations from these estimates could result in a significate difference to our financial results. Sponsor Loans The Company has elected to account for the $6,900,000 (original principal amount) in Sponsor Loans using the fair value option in accordance with the guidance contained in ASC 825-10-25. The fair value option provides an option to elect fair value as an alternative measurement for selected financial assets, financial liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments, and written loan commitments. The Company has elected to apply the fair value option to the Sponsor Loans to simplify the accounting model applied to that class of financial instruments. On November 2, 2023, the Company, GCT and the Sponsor entered into a Sponsor Support Agreement. Pursuant to the Sponsor Support Agreement, the Sponsor agreed to forgive all amounts outstanding under the Sponsor Loan upon the closing of the proposed Business Combination which was determined to be a modification of the Sponsor Loan. The Company follows the guidance of ASC Topic 470-50 DebtModifications and Extinguishments, for loan modifications. The Companys Sponsor continues to maintain an equity interest in the Company. The Company determined that after accounting for the modification of the Sponsor Loan, the terms of the Sponsor Loan were substantially different and as such should be accounted for as an extinguishment of the original debt and the recognition of new debt. As such, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of the Sponsor Loans in the Companys consolidated statements of changes in stockholders deficit calculated as the difference between the fair value of the Sponsor Loan under the original Sponsor Loan Agreement and the fair value of the Sponsor Loan under the updated terms of the Sponsor Support Agreement on the date of the extinguishment. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes under ASC 740 Income Taxes (ASC 740). ASC 740 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the consolidated financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax loss and tax credit carry forwards. The Company assesses the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from the existing deferred tax liabilities or future taxable income. To the extent the Company believes that recovery will not meet the more likely than not threshold, it establishes a valuation allowance. Non-Redemption Agreements We comply with the requirements of SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) Topic 5(A) Expenses of Offering and SAB Topic 5(T): Miscellaneous Accounting Accounting for Expenses or Liabilities Paid by Principal Stockholder(s). As such, management used significant estimates to determine the fair value of the Promote Shares assigned to the Investors. JOBS Act On April 5, 2012, the JOBS Act was signed into law. The JOBS Act contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We will qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act will be allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things: (1) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (2) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection 66 Table of Contents Act; (3) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the consolidated financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis); and (4) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of the IPO or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier.