Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to Concord Acquisition Corp III. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, references to the Sponsors refer to Concord Sponsor Group III LLC and CA2 Co-Investment, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, the business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations, and the impact of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic on the Companys search for a Business Combination (as defined below), are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Companys annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on February 18, 2021 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (a Business Combination). We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities since inception have been organizational activities and those necessary for our initial public offering (IPO) and activities related to seeking and consummating an acquisition target. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after completion of our initial business combination. Until such time that a business combination occurs, we will generate non-operating income in the form of investment income on cash and cash equivalents in the form of specified U.S. government treasury bills or specified money market funds after the IPO and non-operating income or expense from the changes in the fair value of warrant liabilities and Sponsor loans. There has been no significant change in our financial or trading position and no material adverse change has occurred since the date of our audited financial statements. Until the completion of our initial business combination, we expect to incur increased expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses. For the nine months ended September 30, 2022, we had net income of $18,757,827 which consisted of formation and operating costs of $895,786 and income taxes of $381,057 offset by the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $17,918,000 and income from investments held in Trust Account of $2,116,670. For the period from February 18, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $4,623, consisting of formation costs. 23 Table of Contents For the three months ended September 30, 2022, we had net income of $3,200,859 which consisted of formation and operating costs of $286,566 and income taxes of $323,088 offset by the change in the fair value of the warrant liability and sponsor loans of $2,222,000 and income from investments held in the Trust Account of $1,588,513. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $4,150, consisting of formation costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the IPO, as described below, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the sponsors and loans from our Sponsor. On November 8, 2021, the Company completed its IPO of 34,500,000 Units, including the issuance of 4,500,000 Units as a result of the underwriters exercise in full of their over-allotment option at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, the Company consummated the sale of 8,260,606 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor and 1,139,394 Private Placement Warrants to CA2 Co-Investment, each at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total proceeds of $9,400,000. The Company also executed promissory notes with the Sponsors (the Sponsors Loans), evidencing loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans shall be repaid or converted into warrants (Sponsor Loan Warrants) at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. The Sponsor Loan Warrants will be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. Offering costs amounted to $18,394,829, consisting of $6,900,000 of underwriting discount, $12,075,000 of deferred underwriting discount, and $540,576 of other offering costs offset by $1,035,747 of offering costs attributable to the warrant liability. In addition, $2,089,239 of cash was held outside of the Trust Account on November 8, 2021 and was available for working capital purposes. Upon the closing of the IPO and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $351,900,000 ($10.20 per Unit) was placed in a U.S.-based trust account, with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting certain conditions of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the funds held in the Trust Account. As of September 30, 2022, we had available to us $409,645 of proceeds held outside the Trust Account. We will use these funds primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, structure, negotiate and complete a business combination, and to pay taxes to the extent the interest earned on the Trust Account is not sufficient to pay our taxes. If the estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, the Company may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to a Business Combination. Moreover, the Company may need to obtain additional financing either to complete a Business Combination or because the Company become obligated to redeem a significant number of public shares upon consummation of a Business Combination, in which case the Company may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Subject to compliance with applicable securities laws, the Company would only complete such financing simultaneously with the completion of a Business Combination. If the Company is unable to complete a Business Combination because it does not have sufficient funds available, the Company will be forced to cease operations and liquidate the Trust Account. In addition, following a Business Combination, if cash on hand is insufficient, the Company may need to obtain additional financing in order to meet its obligations. 24 Table of Contents In connection with the Companys assessment of going concern considerations in accordance with ASC Subtopic 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern, the Company has until May 8, 2023 (or until August 8, 2023, or November 8, 2023, if extended) to consummate a Business Combination. If a Business Combination is not consummated by this date and extension(s) are not obtained, there will be a mandatory liquidation and subsequent dissolution of the Company. Although the Company intends to consummate a Business Combination on or before May 8, 2023, it is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination by this time. Management has determined that the mandatory liquidation, should a Business Combination not occur, and an extension is not obtained, and potential subsequent dissolution, as well as the potential for the Company to have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to a Business Combination, raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern. It is uncertain whether the Company will be able to consummate a Business Combination or obtain an extension by this time. No adjustments have been made to the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities should the Company be required to liquidate after May 8, 2023. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements; Commitments and Contractual Obligations We have no obligations, assets or liabilities which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2022. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Estimates We prepare our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates from those disclosed in our financial statements and the related notes and other financial information included in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, on file with the SEC.