Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview We are a blank check company incorporated on February 18, 2021 for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities (a Business Combination). We intend to effectuate our initial business combination using cash from the proceeds of our offering and the sale of the private placement warrants, our shares, debt or a combination of cash, equity and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities from inception to September 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the initial public offering, (the IPO), described below, and, after the IPO, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the trust account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a business combination. For the period from February 18, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $4,623, which consisted of formation costs. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $4,150, which consisted of formation costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Until the consummation of the IPO, as described below, our only source of liquidity was an initial purchase of ordinary shares by the sponsors and loans from our Sponsor. On November 8, 2021, the Company completed its IPO of 34,500,000 Units, including the issuance of 4,500,000 Units as a result of the underwriters exercise in full of their over-allotment option at an offering price of $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345,000,000. Simultaneously with the closing of the IPO, the Company consummated the sale of 8,260,606 Private Placement Warrants to the Sponsor and 1,139,394 Private Placement Warrants to CA2 Co-Investment, each at a price of $1.00 per Private Placement Warrant, generating total proceeds of $9,400,000. The Company also executed promissory notes with the Sponsors (the Sponsors Loans), evidencing loans to the Company in the aggregate amount of $6,900,000. The Sponsor Loans shall be repaid or converted into warrants (Sponsor Loan Warrants) at a conversion price of $1.00 per warrant, at the Sponsors discretion. The Sponsor Loan Warrants will be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. Offering costs amounted to $18,394,829, consisting of $6,900,000 of underwriting discount, $12,075,000 of deferred underwriting discount, and $455,576 of other offering costs offset by $1,035,747 of offering costs attributable to the warrant liability recorded in accumulated deficit. In addition, $2,089,239 of cash was held outside of the Trust Account and is available for working capital purposes. Upon the closing of the IPO and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, a total of $351,900,000 ($10.20 per Unit) was placed in a U.S.-based trust account, with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning set forth in Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act, with a maturity of 185 days or less or in any open-ended investment company that holds itself out as a money market fund selected by the Company meeting certain conditions of Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act, as determined by the Company, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the funds held in the Trust Account. 16 Table of Contents We do not believe we will need to raise additional funds in order to meet the expenditures required for operating our business. However, if our estimate of the costs of identifying a target business, undertaking in-depth due diligence and negotiating a Business Combination are less than the actual amount necessary to do so, we may have insufficient funds available to operate our business prior to our initial Business Combination. Moreover, we may need to obtain additional financing either to complete our Business Combination or because we become obligated to redeem a significant number of our public shares upon completion of our Business Combination, in which case we may issue additional securities or incur debt in connection with such Business Combination. Off-Balance Sheet Financing Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $20,000 for office space, administrative and support services. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. Recent Accounting Standards In August 2020, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging --Contracts in Entity's Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entity's Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The provisions of ASU 2020-06 are applicable for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, with early adoption permitted no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of ASU 2020-06 on its financial statements. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our financial statements.